
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### Calculation methods for cumulative flow rates and determining compliance with Vtip operating limits

(k). The owner or operator shall determine Von a 15-minute block average basis according to the following requirements.

(1) The owner or operator shall use design and engineering principles to determine the unobstructed cross sectional area of the flare tip. The unobstructed cross sectional area of the flare tip is the total tip area that vent gas can pass through. This area does not include any stability tabs, stability rings, and upper steam or air tubes because flare vent gas does not exit through them.

(2) The owner or operator shall determine the cumulative volumetric flow of flare vent gas for each 15-minute block average period using the data from the continuous flow monitoring system required in paragraph (i) of this section according to the following requirements, as applicable. If desired, the cumulative flow rate for a 15-minute block period only needs to include flow during those periods when regulated material is sent to the flare, but owners or operators may elect to calculate the cumulative flow rates across the entire 15-minute block period for any 15-minute block period where there is regulated material flow to the flare.

(i) Use set 15-minute time periods starting at 12 midnight to 12:15 a.m., 12:15 a.m. to 12:30 a.m. and so on concluding at 11:45 p.m. to midnight when calculating 15-minute block average flow volumes.
