
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### i.e.,

(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(5) and (6) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring system capable of continuously measuring (at least once every 15-minutes), calculating, and recording the individual component concentrations present in the flare vent gas.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(5) and (6) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate, and maintain a grab sampling system capable of collecting an evacuated canister sample for subsequent compositional analysis at least once every eight hours while there is flow of regulated material to the flare. Subsequent compositional analysis of the samples must be performed according to Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2010), ASTM D1945-03 (Reapproved 2010), ASTM D1945-14 or ASTM UOP539-12 (all incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14).

(3) Except as provided in paragraphs (j)(5) and (6) of this section, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a calorimeter capable of continuously measuring, calculating, and recording NHVat standard conditions.

(4) If the owner or operator uses a continuous net heating value monitor according to paragraph (j)(3) of this section, the owner or operator may, at their discretion, install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring system capable of continuously measuring, calculating, and recording the hydrogen concentration in the flare vent gas.

(5) Direct compositional or net heating value monitoring is not required for purchased ("pipeline quality") natural gas streams. The net heating value of purchased natural gas streams may be determined using annual or more frequent grab sampling at any one representative location. Alternatively, the net heating value of any purchased natural gas stream can be assumed to be 920 Btu/scf.

(6) Direct compositional or net heating value monitoring is not required for gas streams that have been demonstrated to have consistent composition (or a fixed minimum net heating value) according to the methods in paragraphs (j)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a written application for an exemption from monitoring. The application must contain the following information:

(A) A description of the flare gas stream/system to be considered, including submission of a portion of the appropriate piping diagrams indicating the boundaries of the flare gas stream/system and the affected flare(s) to be considered;

(B) A statement that there are no crossover or entry points to be introduced into the flare gas stream/system (this should be shown in the piping diagrams) prior to the point where the flow rate of the gas streams is measured;
