
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### i.e.,

(iii) You may conduct a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis for a single event that causes two or more flares that are operated in series (cascaded flare systems) to have a flow event meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(iv) You may conduct a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis for a single event that causes two or more flares to have a flow event meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, regardless of the configuration of the flares, if the root cause is reasonably expected to be a force majeure event, as defined in this subpart.

(v) Except as provided in paragraphs (o)(4)(iii) and (iv) of this section, if more than one flare has a flow event that meets the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section during the same time period, an initial root cause analysis shall be conducted separately for each flare that has a flow event meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section. If the initial root cause analysis indicates that the flow events have the same root cause(s), the initially separate root cause analyses may be recorded as a single root cause analysis and a single corrective action analysis may be conducted.

(5) Each owner or operator of a flare required to conduct a root cause analysis and corrective action analysis as specified in paragraphs (o)(3) and (4) of this section shall implement the corrective action(s) identified in the corrective action analysis in accordance with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (o)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) All corrective action(s) must be implemented within 45 days of the event for which the root cause and corrective action analyses were required or as soon thereafter as practicable. If an owner or operator concludes that no corrective action should be implemented, the owner or operator shall record and explain the basis for that conclusion no later than 45 days following the event.

(ii) For corrective actions that cannot be fully implemented within 45 days following the event for which the root cause and corrective action analyses were required, the owner or operator shall develop an implementation schedule to complete the corrective action(s) as soon as practicable.

(iii) No later than 45 days following the event for which a root cause and corrective action analyses were required, the owner or operator shall record the corrective action(s) completed to date, and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.

(6) The owner or operator shall determine the total number of events for which a root cause and corrective action analyses was required during the calendar year for each affected flare separately for events meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section and those meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section. For the purpose of this requirement, a single root cause analysis conducted for an event that met both of the criteria in paragraphs (o)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section would be counted as an event under each of the separate criteria counts for that flare. Additionally, if a single root cause analysis was conducted for an event that caused multiple flares to meet the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, that event would count as an event for each of the flares for each criteria in paragraph (o)(3) of this section that was met during that event. The owner or operator shall also determine the total number of events for which a root cause and correct action analyses was required and the analyses concluded that the root cause was a force majeure event, as defined in this subpart.

(7) The following events would be a violation of this emergency flaring work practice standard.

(i) Any flow event for which a root cause analysis was required and the root cause was determined to be operator error or poor maintenance.

(ii) Two visible emissions exceedance events meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section that were not caused by a force majeure event from a single flare in a 3 calendar year period for the same root cause for the same equipment.

(iii) Two flare tip velocity exceedance events meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section that were not caused by a force majeure event from a single flare in a 3 calendar year period for the same root cause for the same equipment.

(iv) Three visible emissions exceedance events meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section that were not caused by a force majeure event from a single flare in a 3 calendar year period for any reason.

(v) Three flare tip velocity exceedance events meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section that were not caused by a force majeure event from a single flare in a 3 calendar year period for any reason.
