
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### Emergency flaring provisions.

(o)The owner or operator of a flare that has the potential to operate above its smokeless capacity under any circumstance shall comply with the provisions in paragraphs (o)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Develop a flare management plan to minimize flaring during periods of startup, shutdown, or emergency releases. The flare management plan must include the information described in paragraphs (o)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) A listing of all refinery process units, ancillary equipment, and fuel gas systems connected to the flare for each affected flare.

(ii) An assessment of whether discharges to affected flares from these process units, ancillary equipment and fuel gas systems can be minimized or prevented during periods of startup, shutdown, or emergency releases. The flare minimization assessment must (at a minimum) consider the items in paragraphs (o)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. The assessment must provide clear rationale in terms of costs (capital and annual operating), natural gas offset credits (if applicable), technical feasibility, secondary environmental impacts and safety considerations for the selected minimization alternative(s) or a statement, with justifications, that flow reduction could not be achieved. Based upon the assessment, each owner or operator of an affected flare shall identify the minimization alternatives that it has implemented by the due date of the flare management plan and shall include a schedule for the prompt implementation of any selected measures that cannot reasonably be completed as of that date.

(A) Modification in startup and shutdown procedures to reduce the quantity of process gas discharge to the flare.

(B) Implementation of prevention measures listed for pressure relief devices in ยง 63.648(j)(3)(ii)(A) through (E) for each pressure relief device that can discharge to the flare.

(C) Installation of a flare gas recovery system or, for facilities that are fuel gas rich, a flare gas recovery system and a co-generation unit or combined heat and power unit.

(iii) A description of each affected flare containing the information in paragraphs (o)(1)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section.
