
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### refineryRTR@epa.gov

(iii) All versions of the plan submitted to the Administrator shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to.

(3) The owner or operator of a flare subject to this subpart shall conduct a root cause analysis and a corrective action analysis for each flow event that contains regulated material and that meets either the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The vent gas flow rate exceeds the smokeless capacity of the flare based on a 15-minute block average and visible emissions are present from the flare for more than 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours during the release event.

(ii) The vent gas flow rate exceeds the smokeless capacity of the flare and the 15-minute block average flare tip velocity exceeds the maximum flare tip velocity determined using the methods in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(4) A root cause analysis and corrective action analysis must be completed as soon as possible, but no later than 45 days after a flare flow event meeting the criteria in paragraph (o)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section. Special circumstances affecting the number of root cause analyses and/or corrective action analyses are provided in paragraphs (o)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) You may conduct a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis for a single continuous flare flow event that meets both of the criteria in paragraphs (o)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(ii) You may conduct a single root cause analysis and corrective action analysis for a single continuous flare flow event regardless of the number of 15-minute block periods in which the flare tip velocity was exceeded or the number of 2 hour periods that contain more the 5 minutes of visible emissions.
