
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### Direct calculation method.

(ii)When calculating NHVfor a specific 15-minute block:

(A) If the results from the first sample collected during an event (for periodic flare vent gas flow events) are not available until after the second 15-minute block starts, use the results from the first sample collected during an event for the first 15-minute block associated with that event.

(B) For all other cases, use the arithmetic average of all NHVmeasurement data results that become available during a 15-minute block to calculate the 15-minute block average for that period. For the purpose of this requirement, use the time that the results become available rather than the time the sample was collected. For example, if a sample is collected at 12:25 a.m. and the analysis is completed at 12:38 a.m., the results are available at 12:38 a.m. and these results would be used to determine compliance during the 15-minute block period from 12:30 a.m. to 12:45 a.m.

(6) When grab samples are used to determine flare vent gas composition:

(i) Use the analytical results from the first grab sample collected for an event for all 15-minute periods from the start of the event through the 15-minute block prior to the 15-minute block in which a subsequent grab sample is collected.

(ii) Use the results from subsequent grab sampling events for all 15 minute periods starting with the 15-minute block in which the sample was collected and ending with the 15-minute block prior to the 15-minute block in which the next grab sample is collected. For the purpose of this requirement, use the time the sample was collected rather than the time the analytical results become available.

(7) If the owner or operator monitors separate gas streams that combine to comprise the total flare vent gas flow, the 15-minute block average net heating value shall be determined separately for each measurement location according to the methods in paragraphs (l)(1) through (6) of this section and a flow-weighted average of the gas stream net heating values shall be used to determine the 15-minute block average net heating value of the cumulative flare vent gas.
