
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### e.g.

(iv) Description and simple process flow diagram showing all gas lines (including flare waste gas, purge or sweep gas (as applicable), supplemental gas) that are associated with the flare. For purge, sweep, supplemental gas, identify the type of gas used. Designate which lines are exempt from composition or net heating value monitoring and why (, natural gas, gas streams that have been demonstrated to have consistent composition, pilot gas). Designate which lines are monitored and identify on the process flow diagram the location and type of each monitor. Designate the pressure relief devices that are vented to the flare.

(v) For each flow rate, gas composition, net heating value or hydrogen concentration monitor identified in paragraph (o)(1)(iv) of this section, provide a detailed description of the manufacturer's specifications, including, but not limited to, make, model, type, range, precision, accuracy, calibration, maintenance and quality assurance procedures.

(vi) For each pressure relief device vented to the flare identified in paragraph (o)(1)(iv) of this section, provide a detailed description of each pressure release device, including type of relief device (rupture disc, valve type) diameter of the relief device opening, set pressure of the relief device and listing of the prevention measures implemented. This information may be maintained in an electronic database on-site and does not need to be submitted as part of the flare management plan unless requested to do so by the Administrator.

(vii) Procedures to minimize or eliminate discharges to the flare during the planned startup and shutdown of the refinery process units and ancillary equipment that are connected to the affected flare, together with a schedule for the prompt implementation of any procedures that cannot reasonably be implemented as of the date of the submission of the flare management plan.

(2) Each owner or operator required to develop and implement a written flare management plan as described in paragraph (o)(1) of this section must submit the plan to the Administrator as described in paragraphs (o)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator must develop and implement the flare management plan no later than January 30, 2019 or at startup for a new flare that commenced construction on or after February 1, 2016.

(ii) The owner or operator must comply with the plan as submitted by the date specified in paragraph (o)(2)(i) of this section. The plan should be updated periodically to account for changes in the operation of the flare, such as new connections to the flare or the installation of a flare gas recovery system, but the plan need be re-submitted to the Administrator only if the owner or operator alters the design smokeless capacity of the flare. The owner or operator must comply with the updated plan as submitted.
