
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### refineryrtr@epa.gov.

(iii) The request shall also be submitted to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (E143-01), Attention: Refinery Sector Lead, 109 T.W. Alexander Drive, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Electronic copies in lieu of hard copies may also be submitted to

(iv) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the request, the request must be revised to address the deficiencies and be re-submitted for approval within 45 days of receipt of the notice of deficiencies. The owner or operator must comply with the revised request as submitted until it is approved.

(4) The approval process for a request for a flare-specific operating limit(s) is described in paragraphs (r)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Approval by the Administrator of a flare-specific operating limit(s) request will be based on the completeness, accuracy and reasonableness of the request. Factors that the EPA will consider in reviewing the request for approval include, but are not limited to, those described in paragraphs (r)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The description of the flare design and operating characteristics.

(B) If a new operating parameter(s) other than those specified in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section is proposed, the explanation of how the proposed operating parameter(s) serves a good indicator(s) of flare combustion performance.

(C) The results of the flare performance evaluation test runs and the establishment of operating limits that ensures that the flare destruction efficiency is 98 percent or greater or that the flare combustion efficiency is 96.5 percent or greater at all times.

(D) The completeness of the flare performance evaluation test report.

(ii) If the request is approved by the Administrator, a flare-specific operating limit(s) will be established at the level(s) demonstrated in the approved request.

(iii) If the Administrator finds any deficiencies in the request, the request must be revised to address the deficiencies and be re-submitted for approval.
