
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### e.g.

(E) Operating conditions (, vent gas composition, assist rates, etc.) that occurred during the test.

(F) Quality assurance procedures.

(G) Records of calibrations.

(H) Raw data sheets for field sampling.

(I) Raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses.

(J) Documentation of calculations.

(iii) The selected flare-specific operating limit values based on the performance evaluation test results, including the averaging time for the operating limit(s), and rationale why the selected values and averaging times are sufficiently stringent to ensure proper flare performance. If new operating parameters or averaging times are proposed for use other than those specified in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, an explanation of why the alternative operating parameter(s) or averaging time(s) adequately ensures the flare achieves the required combustion efficiency.

(iv) The means by which the owner or operator will document on-going, continuous compliance with the selected flare-specific operating limit(s), including the specific measurement location and frequencies, calculation procedures, and records to be maintained.

(3) The request shall be submitted as described in paragraphs (r)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator at any time upon completion of a performance evaluation conducted following the methods in an approved site-specific performance evaluation plan for an operating limit(s) that shall apply specifically to that flare.

(ii) The request must be submitted to the Administrator for approval. The owner or operator must continue to comply with the applicable standards for flares in this subpart until the requirements in ยง 63.6(g)(1) are met and a notice is published in theallowing use of such an alternative means of emission limitation.
