
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.671 Requirements for flare monitoring systems.
####### Operation of CPMS

(a). For each CPMS installed to comply with applicable provisions in ยง 63.670, the owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain the CPMS as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Except for CPMS installed for pilot flame monitoring, all monitoring equipment must meet the applicable minimum accuracy, calibration and quality control requirements specified in table 13 of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator shall ensure the readout (that portion of the CPMS that provides a visual display or record) or other indication of the monitored operating parameter from any CPMS required for compliance is readily accessible onsite for operational control or inspection by the operator of the source.

(3) All CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(4) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), the owner or operator shall operate all CPMS and collect data continuously at all times when regulated emissions are routed to the flare.

(5) The owner or operator shall operate, maintain, and calibrate each CPMS according to the CPMS monitoring plan specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(6) For each CPMS except for CPMS installed for pilot flame monitoring, the owner or operator shall comply with the out-of-control procedures described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(7) The owner or operator shall reduce data from a CPMS as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(8) The CPMS must be capable of measuring the appropriate parameter over the range of values expected for that measurement location. The data recording system associated with each CPMS must have a resolution that is equal to or better than the required system accuracy.
