
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.671 Requirements for flare monitoring systems.
####### CPMS monitoring plan.

(b)The owner or operator shall develop and implement a CPMS quality control program documented in a CPMS monitoring plan that covers each flare subject to the provisions in ยง 63.670 and each CPMS installed to comply with applicable provisions in ยง 63.670. The owner or operator shall have the CPMS monitoring plan readily available on-site at all times and shall submit a copy of the CPMS monitoring plan to the Administrator upon request by the Administrator. The CPMS monitoring plan must contain the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Identification of the specific flare being monitored and the flare type (air-assisted only, steam-assisted only, air- and steam-assisted, pressure-assisted, or non-assisted).

(2) Identification of the parameter to be monitored by the CPMS and the expected parameter range, including worst case and normal operation.

(3) Description of the monitoring equipment, including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Manufacturer and model number for all monitoring equipment components installed to comply with applicable provisions in ยง 63.670.

(ii) Performance specifications, as provided by the manufacturer, and any differences expected for this installation and operation.

(iii) The location of the CPMS sampling probe or other interface and a justification of how the location meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(iv) Placement of the CPMS readout, or other indication of parameter values, indicating how the location meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(v) Span of the CPMS. The span of the CPMS sensor and analyzer must encompass the full range of all expected values.

(vi) How data outside of the span of the CPMS will be handled and the corrective action that will be taken to reduce and eliminate such occurrences in the future.

(vii) Identification of the parameter detected by the parametric signal analyzer and the algorithm used to convert these values into the operating parameter monitored to demonstrate compliance, if the parameter detected is different from the operating parameter monitored.

(4) Description of the data collection and reduction systems, including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) A copy of the data acquisition system algorithm used to reduce the measured data into the reportable form of the standard and to calculate the applicable averages.

(ii) Identification of whether the algorithm excludes data collected during CPMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments or checks to maintain precision and accuracy, calibration checks, and zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable) and high-level adjustments.

(iii) If the data acquisition algorithm does not exclude data collected during CPMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments or checks to maintain precision and accuracy, calibration checks, and zero (low-level), mid-level (if applicable) and high-level adjustments, a description of the procedure for excluding this data when the averages calculated as specified in paragraph (e) of this section are determined.

(5) Routine quality control and assurance procedures, including descriptions of the procedures listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (vi) of this section and a schedule for conducting these procedures. The routine procedures must provide an assessment of CPMS performance.

(i) Initial and subsequent calibration of the CPMS and acceptance criteria.

(ii) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the CPMS.

(iii) Daily checks for indications that the system is responding. If the CPMS system includes an internal system check, the owner or operator may use the results to verify the system is responding, as long as the system provides an alarm to the owner or operator or the owner or operator checks the internal system results daily for proper operation and the results are recorded.

(iv) Preventive maintenance of the CPMS, including spare parts inventory.

(v) Data recording, calculations and reporting.

(vi) Program of corrective action for a CPMS that is not operating properly.
