
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.670 Requirements for flare control devices.
####### Alternative means of emissions limitation.

(r)An owner or operator may request approval from the Administrator for site-specific operating limits that shall apply specifically to a selected flare. Site-specific operating limits include alternative threshold values for the parameters specified in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section as well as threshold values for operating parameters other than those specified in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section. The owner or operator must demonstrate that the flare achieves 96.5 percent combustion efficiency (or 98 percent destruction efficiency) using the site-specific operating limits based on a performance evaluation as described in paragraph (r)(1) of this section. The request shall include information as described in paragraph (r)(2) of this section. The request shall be submitted and followed as described in paragraph (r)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall prepare and submit a site-specific test plan and receive approval of the site-specific performance evaluation plan prior to conducting any flare performance evaluation test runs intended for use in developing site-specific operating limits. The site-specific performance evaluation plan shall include, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (r)(1)(i) through (ix) of this section. Upon approval of the site-specific performance evaluation plan, the owner or operator shall conduct performance evaluation test runs for the flare following the procedures described in the site-specific performance evaluation plan.

(i) The design and dimensions of the flare, flare type (air-assisted only, steam-assisted only, air- and steam-assisted, pressure-assisted, or non-assisted), and description of gas being flared, including quantity of gas flared, frequency of flaring events (if periodic), expected net heating value of flare vent gas, minimum total steam assist rate.

(ii) The operating conditions (vent gas compositions, vent gas flow rates and assist flow rates, if applicable) likely to be encountered by the flare during normal operations and the operating conditions for the test period.

(iii) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the flare combustion or destruction efficiency.

(iv) Site-specific operating parameters to be monitored continuously during the flare performance evaluation. These parameters may include but are not limited to vent gas flow rate, steam and/or air assist flow rates, and flare vent gas composition. If new operating parameters are proposed for use other than those specified in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, an explanation of the relevance of the proposed operating parameter(s) as an indicator of flare combustion performance and why the alternative operating parameter(s) can adequately ensure that the flare achieves the required combustion efficiency.

(v) A detailed description of the measurement methods, monitored pollutant(s), measurement locations, measurement frequency, and recording frequency proposed for both emission measurements and flare operating parameters.

(vi) A description of (including sample calculations illustrating) the planned data reduction and calculations to determine the flare operating parameters.

(vii) The minimum number and length of test runs and range of operating values to be evaluated during the performance evaluation. A sufficient number of test runs shall be conducted to identify the point at which the combustion/destruction efficiency of the flare deteriorates.

(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) Test schedule.

(2) The request for flare-specific operating limits shall include sufficient and appropriate data, as determined by the Administrator, to allow the Administrator to confirm that the selected site-specific operating limit(s) adequately ensures that the flare destruction efficiency is 98 percent or greater or that the flare combustion efficiency is 96.5 percent or greater at all times. At a minimum, the request shall contain the information described in paragraphs (r)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The design and dimensions of the flare, flare type (air-assisted only, steam-assisted only, air- and steam-assisted, pressure-assisted, or non-assisted), and description of gas being flared, including quantity of gas flared, frequency of flaring events (if periodic), expected net heating value of flare vent gas, minimum total steam assist rate.

(ii) Results of each performance evaluation test run conducted, including, at a minimum:

(A) The measured combustion/destruction efficiency.

(B) The measured or calculated operating parameters for each test run. If operating parameters are calculated, the raw data from which the parameters are calculated must be included in the test report.

(C) Measurement location descriptions for both emission measurements and flare operating parameters.

(D) Description of sampling and analysis procedures (including number and length of test runs) and any modifications to standard procedures. If there were deviations from the approved test plan, a detailed description of the deviations and rationale why the test results or calculation procedures used are appropriate.
