
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.680 Applicability and designation of affected sources.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to the owner and operator of a plant site for which both of the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section are applicable. If either one of these conditions does not apply to the plant site, then the owner and operator of the plant site are not subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(1) The plant site is a major source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions as defined in 40 CFR 63.2.

(2) At the plant site is located one or more of operations that receives off-site materials as specified in paragraph (b) of this section and the operations is one of the following waste management operations or recovery operations as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(vi) of this section.

(i) A waste management operation that receives off-site material and the operation is regulated as a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) under either 40 CFR part 264 or part 265.

(ii) A waste management operation that treats wastewater which is an off-site material and the operation is exempted from regulation as a hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facility under 40 CFR 264.1(g)(6) or 40 CFR 265.1(c)(10).

(iii) A waste management operation that treats wastewater which is an off-site material and the operation meets both of the following conditions:

(A) The operation is subject to regulation under either section 402 or 307(b) of the Clean Water Act but is not owned by a "state" or "municipality" as defined by section 502(3) and 502(4), respectively, of the Clean Water Act; and

(B) The treatment of wastewater received from off-site is the predominant activity performed at the plant site.

(iv) A recovery operation that recycles or reprocesses hazardous waste which is an off-site material and the operation is exempted from regulation as a hazardous waste treatment, disposal, and storage facility under 40 CFR 264.1(g)(2) or 40 CFR 265.1(c)(6).

(v) A recovery operation that recycles or reprocesses used solvent which is an off-site material and the operation is not part of a chemical, petroleum, or other manufacturing process that is required to use air emission controls by another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 or 40 CFR part 61.

(vi) A recovery operation that re-refines or reprocesses used oil which is an off-site material and the operation is regulated under 40 CFR 279 subpart F-Standards for Used Oil Processors and Refiners.

(b) For the purpose of implementing this subpart, an off-site material is a material that meets all of the criteria specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section but is not one of the materials specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(1) An off-site material is a material that meets all of the criteria specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iii) of this section. If any one of these criteria do not apply to the material, then the material is not an off-site material subject to this subpart.

(i) The material is a waste, used oil, or used solvent as defined in ยง 63.681 of this subpart;

(ii) The waste, used oil, or used solvent is not produced or generated within the plant site, but the material is delivered, transferred, or otherwise moved to the plant site from a location outside the boundaries of the plant site; and

(iii) The waste, used oil, or used solvent contains one or more of the hazardous air pollutants (HAP) listed in Table 1 of this subpart based on the composition of the material at the point-of-delivery, as defined in ยง 63.681 of this subpart.

(2) For the purpose of implementing this subpart, the following materials are not off-site materials:

(i) Household waste as defined in 40 CFR 258.2.

(ii) Radioactive mixed waste managed in accordance with all applicable regulations under Atomic Energy Act and Nuclear Waste Policy Act authorities.

(iii) Waste that is generated as a result of implementing remedial activities required under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) corrective action authorities (RCRA sections 3004(u), 3004(v), or 3008(h)), Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) authorities, or similar Federal or State authorities.

(iv) Waste containing HAP that is generated by residential households (e.g., old paint, home garden pesticides) and subsequently is collected as a community service by government agencies, businesses, or other organizations for the purpose of promoting the proper disposal of this waste.

(v) Waste that is transferred from a chemical manufacturing plant or other facility for which the owner or operator of the facility from which the waste is transferred has complied with the provisions of the air emission control standards for process wastewater specified by another subpart of this part. This exemption does not apply to a source which complies with another subpart of this part by transferring its wastewater off-site for control.

(vi) Waste that is transferred from a chemical manufacturing plant, petroleum refinery, or coke by-product recovery plant which is subject to 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF-National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations, and for which both of the following conditions apply to the waste:

(A) The waste is generated at a facility that is not exempted under the provisions of 40 CFR 61.342(a) from meeting the air emission control standards of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF; and

(B) The owner or operator of the facility from which the waste is transferred has complied with the provisions of 40 CFR 61.342(f)(2).

(vii) Ship ballast water pumped from a ship to an onshore wastewater treatment facility.

(viii) Hazardous waste that is stored for 10 days or less at a transfer facility in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR 263.12.
