
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.680 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Process vents.

(2)For each operation specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(vi) of this section that is located at the plant site, the affected source is the entire group of process equipment associated with the process vents for the processes listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this section.

(i) Distillation process used for the treatment, recycling, or recovery of off-site material. Distillation means a process, either batch or continuous, separating one or more off-site material feed streams into two or more exit streams having different component concentrations from those in the feed stream or streams. The separation is achieved by the redistribution of the components between the liquid and vapor phases as they approach equilibrium within the distillation unit.

(ii) Fractionation process used for the treatment, recycling, or recovery of off-site material. Fractionation means a liquid mixture separation process or method used to separate a mixture of several volatile components of different boiling points in successive stages, each stage removing from the mixture some proportion of one of the components.

(iii) Thin-film evaporation process used for the treatment, recycling, or recovery of off-site material. Thin-film evaporation means a liquid mixture separation process or method that uses a heating surface consisting of a large diameter tube that may be either straight or tapered, horizontal or vertical. Liquid is spread on the tube wall by a rotating assembly of blades that maintain a close clearance from the wall or actually ride on the film of liquid on the wall.

(iv) Solvent extraction process used for the treatment, recycling, or recovery of off-site material. Solvent extraction means a separation process or method in which a solid or a solution is contacted with a liquid solvent (the material and the solvent being relatively insoluble in each other) to preferentially dissolve and transfer one or more components into the solvent.

(v) Steam stripping process used for the treatment, recycling, or recovery of off-site material. Steam stripping means a liquid mixture separation process or method in which vaporization of the volatile components of a liquid mixture occurs by the introduction of steam directly into the process.

(vi) Gas stripping process used for the treatment, recycling, or recovery of off-site material. Gas stripping means a desorption process or method used to transfer one or more volatile components from a liquid mixture into a gas stream either with or without the application of heat to the liquid. Packed towers, spray towers, and bubble-cap, sieve, or valve-type plate towers are examples of the process configurations used for contacting the gas and a liquid.
