
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 63.671 Requirements for flare monitoring systems.
####### Additional requirements for gas chromatographs.

(e)For monitors used to determine compositional analysis for net heating value per ยง 63.670(j)(1), the gas chromatograph must also meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The quality assurance requirements are in table 13 of this subpart.

(2) The calibration gases must meet one of the following options:

(i) The owner or operator must use a calibration gas or multiple gases that include all of compounds listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(A) through (K) of this section that may be reasonably expected to exist in the flare gas stream and optionally include any of the compounds listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i)(L) through (O) of this section. All of the calibration gases may be combined in one cylinder. If multiple calibration gases are necessary to cover all compounds, the owner or operator must calibrate the instrument on all of the gases.

(A) Hydrogen.

(B) Methane.

(C) Ethane.

(D) Ethylene.

(E) Propane.

(F) Propylene.

(G) n-Butane.

(H) iso-Butane.

(I) Butene (general). It is not necessary to separately speciate butene isomers, but the net heating value of trans-butene must be used for co-eluting butene isomers.

(J) 1,3-Butadiene. It is not necessary to separately speciate butadiene isomers, but you must use the response factor and net heating value of 1,3-butadiene for co-eluting butadiene isomers.

(K) n-Pentane. Use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify all C5+ hydrocarbons.

(L) Acetylene (optional).

(M) Carbon monoxide (optional).

(N) Propadiene (optional).

(O) Hydrogen sulfide (optional).

(ii) The owner or operator must use a surrogate calibration gas consisting of hydrogen and C1 through C5 normal hydrocarbons. All of the calibration gases may be combined in one cylinder. If multiple calibration gases are necessary to cover all compounds, the owner or operator must calibrate the instrument on all of the gases.

(3) If the owner or operator chooses to use a surrogate calibration gas under paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.
