
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.680 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Facility-wide exemption.

(d)The owner or operator of affected sources subject to this subpart is exempted from the requirements of §§ 63.682 through 63.699 of this subpart in situations when the total annual quantity of the HAP that is contained in the off-site material received at the plant site is less than 1 megagram per year. For a plant site to be exempted under the provisions of this paragraph (d), the owner or operator must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator must prepare an initial determination of the total annual HAP quantity in the off-site material received at the plant site. This determination is based on the total quantity of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart as determined at the point-of-delivery for each off-site material stream.

(2) The owner or operator must prepare a new determination whenever the extent of changes to the quantity or composition of the off-site material received at the plant site could cause the total annual HAP quantity in the off-site material received at the plant site to exceed the limit of 1 megagram per year.

(3) The owner or operator must maintain documentation to support the owner's or operator's determination of the total annual HAP quantity in the off-site material received at the plant site. This documentation must include the basis and data used for determining the HAP content of the off-site material.
