
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.683 Standards: General.
####### Process vents.

(c)(1) For each process vent that is part of an affected source, the owner or operator must meet the requirements in either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (c)(1)(ii) of this section except for those process vents exempted under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator controls air emissions from the process vent in accordance with the standards specified in § 63.690 of this subpart.

(ii) The owner or operator determines before placing off-site material in the process equipment associated with the process vent that the average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material is less than 500 ppmw at the point-of-delivery. The owner or operator must perform an initial determination of the average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material using the procedures specified in § 63.694(b) of this subpart before any portion of the off-site material stream is placed in the unit. Thereafter, the owner or operator must review and update, as necessary, this determination at least once every calendar year following the date of the initial determination for the off-site material stream.

(2) A process vent is exempted from the requirements of paragraph (c)(1) of this section when the owner or operator meets one of the exemptions provided in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) A process vent is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the process vent is also subject to another subpart under part 63 or 40 CFR part 61, and the owner or operator is controlling the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart that are emitted from the process vent in compliance with the provisions specified in the other applicable subpart under part 61 or part 63.

(ii) A process vent is exempted from the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the owner or operator determines that the process vent stream flow rate is less than 0.005 cubic meters per minute (m/min) at standard conditions (as defined in 40 CFR 63.2). The process vent stream flow rate shall be determined in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.694(m) of this subpart. Documentation must be prepared by the owner or operator and maintained at the plant site to support the determination of the process vent stream flow rate. This documentation must include identification of each process vent exempted under this paragraph and the test results used to determine the process vent stream flow rate.

(iii) A process vent is exempted from the requirements specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if the owner or operator determines that the process vent stream flow rate is less than 6.0 m/min at standard conditions (as defined in 40 CFR 63.2) and the total HAP concentration is less than 20 ppmv. The process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration shall be determined in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.694(m) of this subpart. Documentation must be prepared by the owner or operator and maintained at the plant site to support the determination of the process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration. This documentation must include identification of each process vent exempted under this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) and the test results used to determine the process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration. The owner or operator must perform a new determination of the process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration when the extent of changes to operation of the unit on which the process vent is used could cause either the process vent stream flow rate to exceed the limit of 6.0 m/min or the total HAP concentration to exceed the limit of 20 ppmv.
