
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.683 Standards: General.
####### Off-site material management units.

(b)(1) For each off-site material management unit that is part of an affected source, the owner or operator must meet the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), or (b)(1)(iii) of this section except for those off-site material management units exempted under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator controls air emissions from the off-site material management unit in accordance with the applicable standards specified in §§ 63.685 through 63.689 of this subpart.

(ii) The owner or operator removes or destroys HAP in the off-site material before placing the material in the off-site material management unit by treating the material in accordance with the standards specified in § 63.684 of this subpart.

(iii) The owner or operator determines before placing off-site material in the off-site material management unit that the average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material is less than 500 parts per million by weight (ppmw) at the point-of-delivery. The owner or operator must perform an initial determination of the average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material using the procedures specified in § 63.694(b) of this subpart. This initial determination must be performed either before the first time any portion of the off-site material stream is placed in the unit or by the compliance date, whichever date is later. Thereafter, the owner or operator must review and update, as necessary, this determination at least once every calendar year following the date of the initial determination for the off-site material stream.

(2) An off-site material management unit is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section when the owner or operator meets one of the exemptions provided in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section as applicable to the unit.

(i) An off-site material management unit is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the off-site material management unit is also subject to another subpart under 40 CFR part 63 or 40 CFR part 61, and the owner or operator is controlling the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart that are emitted from the unit in compliance with the provisions specified in the other applicable subpart under part 61 or part 63.

(ii) At the discretion of the owner or operator, one or a combination of off-site material management units may be exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section when these units meet the condition that the total annual quantity of HAP contained in the off-site material placed in the units exempted under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) is less than 1 megagram per year. For the off-site material management units selected by the owner or operator to be exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. An owner or operator may change the off-site material management units selected to be exempted under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii) by preparing a new designation for the exempt-units as required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section and performing a new determination as required by paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator must designate each of the off-site material management units selected by the owner or operator to be exempt under paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section by either submitting to the Administrator a written notification identifying the exempt-units or permanently marking the exempt-units at the plant site. If an owner or operator chooses to prepare and submit a written notification, this notification must include a site plan, process diagram, or other appropriate documentation identifying each of the exempt-units. If an owner or operator chooses to permanently mark the exempt-units, each exempt-unit must be marked in such a manner that it can be readily identified as an exempt-unit from the other off-site material management units located at the plant site.

(B) The owner or operator must prepare an initial determination of the total annual HAP quantity in the off-site material placed in the units exempted under this paragraph (b)(2)(ii). This determination is based on the total quantity of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart as determined at the point where the off-site material is placed in each exempted unit. The owner or operator must perform a new determination whenever the extent of changes to the quantity or composition of the off-site material placed in the exempted units could cause the total annual HAP content in the off-site material to exceed 1 megagram per year. The owner or operator must maintain documentation to support the most recent determination of the total annual HAP quantity. This documentation must include the basis and data used for determining the HAP content of the off-site material.

(iii) A tank or surface impoundment is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the unit is used for a biological treatment process that meets the requirements in either paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) or (b)(2)(iii)(B) of this section and the owner or operator complies with the monitoring requirements in § 63.684(e)(4) of this subpart.

(A) The HAP biodegradation efficiency (R) for the biological treatment process is equal to or greater than 95 percent. The HAP biodegradation efficiency (R) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(h) of this subpart.

(B) The total actual HAP mass removal rate (MR) for the off-site material treated by the biological treatment process is equal to or greater than the required HAP mass removal rate (RMR) for the off-site material. The total actual HAP mass removal rate (MR) must be determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(i) of this subpart. The required HAP mass removal rate (RMR) must be determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(e) of this subpart.

(iv) An off-site material management unit is exempted from the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the off-site material placed in the unit is a hazardous waste that meets the conditions specified in either paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) or (b)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) The hazardous waste meets the numerical organic concentration limits, applicable to the hazardous waste, as specified in 40 CFR part 268-Land Disposal Restrictions, listed in the table, "Treatment Standards for Hazardous Waste" in 40 CFR 268.40.

(B) The organic hazardous constituents in the hazardous waste have been treated by the treatment technology established by the EPA for the hazardous waste in 40 CFR 268.42(a), or have been removed or destroyed by an equivalent method of treatment approved by the EPA under 40 CFR 268.42(b).

(v) A tank used for bulk feed of off-site material to a waste incinerator is exempted from the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the tank meets all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(v)(A) through (b)(2)(v)(C) of this section.

(A) The tank is located inside an enclosure vented to a control device that is designed and operated in accordance with all applicable requirements specified under 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF-National Emission Standards for Benzene Waste Operations for a facility at which the total annual benzene quantity from the facility waste is equal to or greater than 10 megagrams per year;

(B) The enclosure and control device serving the tank were installed and began operation prior to July 1, 1996; and

(C) The enclosure is designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of material into or out of the enclosure by conveyor, vehicles, or other mechanical or electrical equipment; or to direct air flow into the enclosure. The owner or operator must annually perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in Section 5.0 to "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure."
