
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.685 Standards: Tanks.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to the control of air emissions from tanks for which § 63.683(b)(1)(i) of this subpart references the use of this section for such air emission control.

(b) According to the date an affected source commenced construction or reconstruction and the date an affected source receives off-site material for the first time as established in § 63.680(e)(i) through (iii), the owner or operator shall control air emissions from each tank subject to this section in accordance with either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(1)(i) For a tank that is part of an existing affected source but the tank is not used for a waste stabilization process as defined in § 63.681, the owner or operator shall determine whether the tank is required to use either Tank Level 1 controls or Tank Level 2 controls as specified for the tank by Table 3 of this subpart based on the off-site material maximum HAP vapor pressure and the tank's design capacity. The owner or operator shall control air emissions from a tank required by Table 3 to use Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The owner or operator shall control air emissions from a tank required by Table 3 to use Tank Level 2 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) For a tank that is part of an existing affected source but the tank is not used for a waste stabilization process as defined in § 63.681, the owner or operator shall determine whether the tank is required to use either Tank Level 1 controls or Tank Level 2 controls as specified for the tank by Table 4 of this subpart based on the off-site material maximum HAP vapor pressure and the tank's design capacity. The owner or operator shall control air emissions from a tank required by Table 4 to use Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The owner or operator shall control air emissions from a tank required by Table 4 to use Tank Level 2 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) For a tank that is part of a new affected source but the tank is not used for a waste stabilization process as defined in § 63.681, the owner or operator shall determine whether the tank is required to use either Tank Level 1 controls or Tank Level 2 controls as specified for the tank by Table 5 of this subpart based on the off-site material maximum HAP vapor pressure and the tank's design capacity. The owner or operator shall control air emissions from a tank required by Table 5 to use Tank Level 1 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. The owner or operator shall control air emissions from a tank required by Table 5 to use Tank Level 2 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) For a tank that is used for a waste stabilization process, the owner or operator shall control air emissions from the tank by using Tank Level 2 controls in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(c) Owners and operators controlling air emissions from a tank using Tank Level 1 controls shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure for an off-site material to be managed in the tank using Tank Level 1 controls before the first time the off-site material is placed in the tank. The maximum HAP vapor pressure shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.694(j). Thereafter, the owner or operator shall perform a new determination whenever changes to the off-site material managed in the tank could potentially cause the maximum HAP vapor pressure to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the maximum HAP vapor pressure limit for the tank design capacity category specified in Table 3, Table 4, or Table 5 of this subpart, as applicable to the tank.

(2) The owner or operator must control air emissions from the tank in accordance with the requirements in either paragraph (c)(2)(i), (c)(2)(ii), or (c)(2)(iii) of this section, as applicable to the tank.

(i) The owner or operator controls air emissions from the tank in accordance with the provisions specified in subpart OO of this part-National Emission Standards for Tanks-Level 1, except that § 63.902(c)(2) and (3) shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, an owner or operator may control air emissions from the tank in accordance with the provisions for Tank Level 2 controls as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section when a tank is used as an interim transfer point to transfer off-site material from containers to another off-site material management unit, an owner or operator may control air emissions from the tank in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(iii)(A) and (c)(2)(iii)(B) of this section. An example of such a tank is an in-ground tank into which organic-contaminated debris is dumped from roll-off boxes or dump trucks, and then this debris is promptly transferred from the tank to a macroencapsulation unit by a backhoe.

(A) During those periods of time when the material transfer activity is occurring, the tank may be operated without a cover.
