
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.684 Standards: Off-site material treatment.
####### Biological degradation performed in an open tank or surface impoundment.

(4)A treatment process using biological degradation and performed in an open tank or surface impoundment must achieve the performance level specified in either paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for the treatment process is equal to or greater than 95 percent, and the HAP biodegradation efficiency (R) for the treatment process is equal to or greater than 95 percent. The HAP reduction efficiency (R) shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(g) of this subpart. The HAP biodegradation efficiency (R) shall be determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(h) of this subpart.

(ii) The total quantity of HAP actually removed from the off-site material stream by biological degradation (MR) shall be equal to or greater than the required mass removal (RMR) established for the off-site material stream using the procedure specified in § 63.694(e) of this subpart. The MRof the off-site material stream shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.694(i) of this subpart.
