
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.684 Standards: Off-site material treatment.
####### HAP reduction efficiency.

(3)For any treatment process except a treatment process that uses biological degradation and is performed in an open tank or surface impoundment, the treatment process must achieve the applicable performance level specified in either paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) In the case when the owner or operator determines that off-site material stream entering the treatment process has an average VOHAP concentration less than 10,000 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, then the treatment process shall achieve a performance level such that the total quantity of HAP in the off-site material stream is reduced by 95 percent or more. The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for the treatment process shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(g) of this subpart. The average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(b) of this subpart.

(ii) In the case when the off-site material stream entering the treatment process has an average VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 10,000 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, then the treatment process shall achieve a performance level such that the total quantity of HAP in the off-site material stream is reduced by 95 percent or more, and the average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material at the point-of-treatment is less than 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw). The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for the treatment process shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(g) of this subpart. The average VOHAP concentration of the off-site material stream at the point-of-treatment shall be determined using the procedure specified in § 63.694(c) of this subpart.
