
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.689 Standards: Transfer systems.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to the control of air emissions from transfer systems for which ยง 63.683(b)(1)(i) of this subpart references the use of this section for such air emission control.

(b) For each transfer system that is subject to this section and is an individual drain system, the owner or operator shall control air emissions in accordance with the standards specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart RR-National Emission Standards for Individual Drain Systems.

(c) For each transfer system that is subject to this section but is not an individual drain system, the owner or operator shall control air emissions by using one of the transfer systems specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.

(1) A transfer system that uses covers in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) A transfer system that consists of continuous hard-piping. All joints or seams between the pipe sections shall be permanently or semi-permanently sealed (e.g., a welded joint between two sections of metal pipe or a bolted and gasketed flange).

(3) A transfer system that is enclosed and vented through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) The transfer system is designed and operated such that an internal pressure in the vapor headspace in the enclosure is maintained at a level less than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating, and

(ii) The closed-vent system and control device are designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of ยง 63.693 of this subpart.

(d) Owners and operators controlling air emissions from a transfer system using covers in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section.

(1) The cover and its closure devices shall be designed to form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the off-site material as it is conveyed by the transfer system except for the openings at the inlet and outlet to the transfer system through which the off-site material passes. The inlet and outlet openings used for passage of the off-site material through the transfer system shall be the minimum size required for practical operation of the transfer system.

(2) The cover shall be installed in a manner such that there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces between cover section joints or between the interface of the cover edge and its mounting.

(3) Except for the inlet and outlet openings to the transfer system through which the off-site material passes, each opening in the cover shall be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device.

(4) The cover and its closure devices shall be made of suitable materials that will minimize exposure of the off-site material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, and will maintain the integrity of the equipment throughout its intended service life. Factors to be considered when selecting the materials for and designing the cover and closure devices shall include: organic vapor permeability; the effects of any contact with the material or its vapors conveyed in the transfer system; the effects of outdoor exposure to wind, moisture, and sunlight; and the operating practices used for the transfer system on which the cover is installed.

(5) Whenever an off-site material is in the transfer system, the cover shall be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position, except the opening of closure devices or removal of the cover is allowed to provide access to the transfer system for performing routine inspection, maintenance, repair, or other activities needed for normal operations. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a hatch or remove the cover to repair conveyance equipment mounted under the cover or to clear a blockage of material inside the system. Following completion of the activity, the owner or operator shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable.

(6) The owner or operator shall inspect the air emission control equipment in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.695 of this subpart.
