
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.693 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
####### e.g.,

(ii) If a seal or locking device is used to comply with paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the device shall be placed on the mechanism by which the bypass device position is controlled (valve handle, damper lever) when the bypass device is in the closed position such that the bypass device cannot be opened without breaking the seal or removing the lock. Examples of such devices include, but are not limited to, a car-seal or a lock-and-key configuration valve.

(iii) Equipment needed for safety reasons, including low leg drains, open-ended valves and lines not in emergency shutdown systems, and pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of ยง 63.691(c) are not subject to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(d) Carbon adsorption control device requirements.

(1) The carbon adsorption system must achieve the performance specifications in either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Recover 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, of the total organic compounds (TOC), less methane and ethane, contained in the vent stream entering the carbon adsorption system; or

(ii) Recover 95 percent or more, on a weight-basis, of the total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart contained in the vent stream entering the carbon adsorption system.

(2) The owner or operator must demonstrate that the carbon adsorption system achieves the performance requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section by either performing a performance test as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section or a design analysis as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) An owner or operator choosing to use a performance test to demonstrate compliance must conduct the test in accordance with the requirements of ยง 63.694(l) of this subpart.

(ii) An owner or operator choosing to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance must include as part of this design analysis the information specified in either paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) or (d)(2)(ii)(B) of this section as applicable to the carbon adsorption system design.

(A) For a regenerable carbon adsorption system, the design analysis shall address the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration, adsorption cycle time, number and capacity of carbon beds, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for carbon beds, design total regeneration steam flow over the period of each complete carbon bed regeneration cycle, design carbon bed temperature after regeneration, design carbon bed regeneration time, and design service life of the carbon.

(B) For a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system (e.g., a carbon canister), the design analysis shall address the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration, carbon bed capacity, activated carbon type and working capacity, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and emission point operating schedule.
