
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.693 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.

(a) The provisions of this section apply to closed-vent systems and control devices used to control air emissions for which another standard references the use of this section for such air emission control.

(b) For each closed-vent system and control device used to comply with this section, the owner or operator shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The owner or operator must use a closed-vent system that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator must use a control device that meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section as applicable to the type and design of the control device selected by the owner or operator to comply with the provisions of this section.

(3) Whenever gases or vapors containing HAP are routed from a tank through a closed-vent system connected to a control device used to comply with the requirements of § 63.685(b)(1), (2), or (3), the control device must be operating except as provided for in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The control device may only be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the closed-vent system or control device in situations when the routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that tank emissions are vented to the control device.

(ii) On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform routine maintenance shall not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.

(4) The owner or operator must inspect and monitor each closed-vent system in accordance with the requirements specified in either paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator inspects and monitors the closed-vent system in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.695(c) of this subpart, and complies with the applicable recordkeeping requirements in § 63.696 of this subpart and the applicable reporting requirements in § 63.697 of this subpart.

(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, the owner or operator may choose to inspect and monitor the closed-vent system in accordance with the requirements under 40 CFR part 63, subpart H-National Emission Standards for Organic Hazardous Air Pollutants for Equipment Leaks as specified in 40 CFR 63.172(f) through (h), and complies with the applicable recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR 63.181 and the applicable reporting requirements in 40 CFR 63.182.

(5) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of each control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d) through (h) of this section as applicable to the type and design of the control device selected by the owner or operator to comply with the provisions of this section.

(6) The owner or operator shall maintain records for each control device in accordance with the requirements of § 63.696 of this subpart.

(7) The owner or operator shall prepare and submit reports for each control device in accordance with the requirements of § 63.697 of this subpart.

(8) In the case when an owner or operator chooses to use a design analysis to demonstrate compliance of a control device with the applicable performance requirements specified in this section as provided for in paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section, the Administrator may require that the design analysis be revised or amended by the owner or operator to correct any deficiencies identified by the Administrator. If the owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on the acceptability of using the design analysis (including any changes required by the Administrator) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements, then the disagreement must be resolved using the results of a performance test conducted by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.694(l). The Administrator may choose to have an authorized representative observe the performance test conducted by the owner or operator. Should the results of this performance test not agree with the determination of control device performance based on the design analysis, then the results of the performance test will be used to establish compliance with this subpart.

(c) Closed-vent system requirements.

(1) The vent stream required to be controlled shall be conveyed to the control device by either of the following closed-vent systems:

(i) A closed-vent system that is designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions using the procedure specified in § 63.694(k) of this subpart; or

(ii) A closed-vent system that is designed to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gauge or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the control device is operating.

(2) In situations when the closed-vent system includes bypass devices that could be used to divert a vent stream from the closed-vent system to the atmosphere at a point upstream of the control device inlet, each bypass device must be equipped with either a flow indicator as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section or a seal or locking device as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section:

(i) If a flow indicator is used, the indicator must be installed at the entrance to the bypass line used to divert the vent stream from the closed-vent system to the atmosphere. The flow indicator must indicate a reading at least once every 15 minutes. The owner or operator must maintain records of the following information: hourly records of whether the flow indicator was operating and whether flow was detected at any time during the hour; and records of all periods when flow is detected or the flow indicator is not operating.
