
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.

(a) This section specifies the testing methods and procedures required for this subpart to perform the following:

(1) To determine the average VOHAP concentration for off-site material streams at the point-of-delivery for compliance with standards specified § 63.683 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) To determine the average VOHAP concentration for treated off-site material streams at the point-of-treatment for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) To determine the treatment process VOHAP concentration limit (C) for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) To determine treatment process required HAP removal rate (RMR) for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(5) To determine treatment process actual HAP removal rate (MR) for compliance with standards specified § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(6) To determine treatment process required HAP reduction efficiency (R) for compliance with standards specified in § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(7) To determine treatment process required HAP biodegradation efficiency (R) for compliance with standards specified in § 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (h) of this section.

(8) To determine treatment process required actual HAP mass removal rate (MR) for compliance with standards specified in§ 63.684 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (i) of this section.

(9) To determine maximum organic HAP vapor pressure of off-site materials in tanks for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.685 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(10) To determine no detectable organic emissions, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (k) of this section.

(11) To determine closed-vent system and control device performance for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.693 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (l) of this section.

(12) To determine process vent stream flow rate and total organic HAP concentration for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.693 of this subpart, the testing methods and procedures are specified in paragraph (m) of this section.

(b) Testing methods and procedures to determine average VOHAP concentration of an off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery.

(1) The average VOHAP concentration of an off-site material at the point-of-delivery shall be determined using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or by knowledge as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.
