
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.693 Standards: Closed-vent systems and control devices.
####### e.g.,

(3) The owner or operator must monitor the operation of the carbon adsorption system in accordance with the requirements of ยง 63.695(e) using one of the continuous monitoring systems specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. Monitoring the operation of a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system (a carbon canister) using a continuous monitoring system is not required when the carbon canister or the carbon in the control device is replaced on a regular basis according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(4)(iii) of this section.

(i) For a regenerative-type carbon adsorption system:

(A) A continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the average total regeneration stream mass flow or volumetric flow during each carbon bed regeneration cycle. The integrating regenerating stream flow monitoring device must have an accuracy of +/-10 percent; and

(B) A continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the average carbon bed temperature for the duration of the carbon bed steaming cycle and to measure the actual carbon bed temperature after regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing the cooling cycle. The accuracy of the temperature monitoring device must be +/-1 percent of the temperature being measured, expressed in degrees Celsius or +/-5 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater.

(ii) A continuous monitoring system to measure and record the daily average concentration level of organic compounds in the exhaust gas stream from the control device. The organic monitoring system must comply either with Performance Specification 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The relative accuracy provision of Performance Specification 8, Sections 2.4 and 3 need not be conducted.

(iii) A continuous monitoring system that measures other alternative operating parameters upon approval of the Administrator as specified in 40 CFR 63.8(f)(1) through (f)(5) of this part.

(4) The owner or operator shall manage the carbon used for the carbon adsorption system, as follows:
