
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.
####### Analysis.

(ii)Each collected sample must be prepared and analyzed in accordance with one of the following methods as applicable to the sampled off-site material for the purpose of measuring the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart:

(A) Method 305 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.

(B) Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(C) Method 624 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A. If this method is used to analyze one or more compounds that are not on the method's published list of approved compounds, the Alternative Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 136.4 and 40 CFR 136.5 must be followed.

(D) Method 625 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A. For the purpose of using this method to comply with this subpart, the owner or operator must perform corrections to these compounds based on the "accuracy as recovery" using the factors in Table 7 of the method. If this method is used to analyze one or more compounds that are not on the method's published list of approved compounds, the Alternative Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 136.4 and 40 CFR 136.5 must be followed.

(E) Method 1624 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.

(F) Method 1625 in 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.

(G) Method 8260 in "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication No. SW-846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992. As an alternative, an owner or operator may use any more recent, updated version of Method 8260 approved by the EPA. For the purpose of using Method 8260 to comply with this subpart, the owner or operator must maintain a formal quality assurance program consistent with section 8 of Method 8260, and this program must include the following elements related to measuring the concentrations of volatile compounds:
