
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.
####### Determination of treatment process VOHAP concentration limit

(d)(C). (1) All of the off-site material streams entering the treatment process shall be identified.

(2) The average VOHAP concentration of each off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery shall be determined using the procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The VOHAP concentration limit (C) shall be calculated by using the results determined for each individual off-site material stream and the following equation:

(e) Determination of required HAP mass removal rate (RMR).

(1) Each individual stream containing HAP that enters the treatment process shall be identified.

(2) The average VOHAP concentration at the point-of-delivery for each stream identified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section shall be determined using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) For each stream identified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section that has an average VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 500 ppmw at the point-of-delivery, the average volumetric flow rate and the density of the off-site material stream at the point-of-delivery shall be determined.

(4) The required HAP mass removal rate (RMR) shall be calculated by using the average VOHAP concentration, average volumetric flow rate, and density determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section for each stream and the following equation:

(f) Determination of actual HAP mass removal rate (MR).

(1) The actual HAP mass removal rate (MR) shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs. The sampling time for each run shall be at least 1 hour.

(2) The HAP mass flow entering the process (E) and the HAP mass flow exiting the process (E) shall be determined using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(4) of this section.

(3) The actual mass removal rate shall be calculated using the HAP mass flow rates determined in paragraph (f)(2) of this section and the following equation:

(g) Determination of treatment process HAP reduction efficiency (R).

(1) The HAP reduction efficiency (R) for a treatment process shall be determined based on results for a minimum of three consecutive runs.

(2) Each individual stream containing HAP that enters the treatment process shall be identified. Each individual stream containing HAP that exits the treatment process shall be identified. The owner or operator shall prepare a sampling plan for measuring the identified streams that accurately reflects the retention time of the material in the process.

(3) For each run, information shall be determined for each stream identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section as specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) through (g)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) The mass quantity shall be determined for each stream identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section as entering the process (Q). The mass quantity shall be determined for each stream identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section as exiting the process (Q).

(ii) The average VOHAP concentration at the point-of-delivery shall be determined for each stream entering the process (C) (as identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) The average VOHAP concentration at the point-of-treatment shall be determined for each stream exiting the process (C) (as identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section) using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) The HAP mass flow entering the process (E) and the HAP mass flow exiting the process (E) shall be calculated using the results determined in paragraph (g)(3) of this section and the following equations:

(5) The HAP reduction efficiency (R) shall be calculated using the HAP mass flow rates determined in paragraph (g)(4) of this section and the following equation:

(h) Determination of HAP biodegradation efficiency (R).

(1) The fraction of HAP biodegraded (F) shall be determined using one of the procedures specified in appendix C of this part 63.

(2) The HAP biodegradation efficiency (R) shall be calculated by using the following equation:
