
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.
####### Sampling.

(1)Samples of the off-site material stream shall be collected at the point-of-treatment in a manner such that volatilization of organics contained in the sample is minimized and an adequately representative sample is collected and maintained for analysis by the selected method.

(i) The averaging period to be used for determining the average VOHAP concentration for the off-site material stream on a mass-weighted average basis shall be designated and recorded. The averaging period can represent any time interval that the owner or operator determines is appropriate for the off-site material stream but shall not exceed 1 year.

(ii) A sufficient number of samples, but no less than four samples, shall be collected to represent the complete range of HAP compositions and HAP quantities that occur in the off-site material stream during the entire averaging period due to normal variations in the operating conditions for the treatment process. Examples of such normal variations are seasonal variations in off-site material quantity or fluctuations in ambient temperature.

(iii) All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the off-site material stream are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the plant site operating records. An example of an acceptable sampling plan includes a plan incorporating sample collection and handling procedures in accordance with the requirements specified in "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication No. SW-846 or Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
