
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.
####### Calculations.

(iii)The average VOHAP concentration (C) on a mass-weighted basis shall be calculated by using the results for all samples analyzed in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section and the following equation. An owner or operator using a test method that provides species-specific chemical concentrations may adjust the measured concentrations to the corresponding concentration values which would be obtained had the off-site material samples been analyzed using Method 305. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual HAP chemical species contained in the off-site material is multiplied by the appropriate species-specific adjustment factor (f) listed in Table 1 of this subpart.

(3) Knowledge of the off-site material to determine VOHAP concentration.

(i) Documentation shall be prepared that presents the information used as the basis for the owner's or operator's knowledge of the off-site material stream's average VOHAP concentration. Examples of information that may be used as the basis for knowledge include: material balances for the source or process generating the off-site material stream; species-specific chemical test data for the off-site material stream from previous testing that are still applicable to the current off-site material stream; previous test data for other locations managing the same type of off-site material stream; or other knowledge based on information in documents such as manifests, shipping papers, or waste certification notices.

(ii) If test data are used as the basis for knowledge, then the owner or operator shall document the test method, sampling protocol, and the means by which sampling variability and analytical variability are accounted for in the determination of the average VOHAP concentration. For example, an owner or operator may use HAP concentration test data for the off-site material stream that are validated in accordance with Method 301 in 40 CFR part 63, appendix A of this part as the basis for knowledge of the off-site material.

(iii) An owner or operator using species-specific chemical concentration test data as the basis for knowledge of the off-site material may adjust the test data to the corresponding average VOHAP concentration value which would be obtained had the off-site material samples been analyzed using Method 305. To adjust these data, the measured concentration for each individual HAP chemical species contained in the off-site material is multiplied by the appropriate species-specific adjustment factor (f) listed in Table 1 of this subpart.

(iv) In the event that the Administrator and the owner or operator disagree on a determination of the average VOHAP concentration for an off-site material stream using knowledge, then the results from a determination of VOHAP concentration using direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be used to establish compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. The Administrator may perform or require that the owner or operator perform this determination using direct measurement.

(c) Determination of average VOHAP concentration of an off-site material stream at the point-of-treatment.
