
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.
####### Control device performance test procedures.,i.e.,

(l)Performance tests shall be based on representative performance (performance based on normal operating conditions) and shall exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites at the inlet and outlet of the control device.

(i) To determine compliance with a control device percent reduction requirement, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet of the control device as specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i)(A) and (l)(1)(i)(B) of this section, and at the outlet of the control device.

(A) The control device inlet sampling site shall be located after the final product recovery device.

(B) If a vent stream is introduced with the combustion air or as an auxiliary fuel into a boiler or process heater, the location of the inlet sampling sites shall be selected to ensure that the measurement of total HAP concentration or TOC concentration, as applicable, includes all vent streams and primary and secondary fuels introduced into the boiler or process heater.

(ii) To determine compliance with an enclosed combustion device concentration limit, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the device.

(2) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(3) To determine compliance with the control device percent reduction requirement, the owner or operator shall use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure the HAP in Table 1 of this subpart or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure TOC. Method 18 may be used to measure methane and ethane, and the measured concentration may be subtracted from the Method 25A measurement. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 in appendix A of this part may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate percent reduction efficiency:

(i) A minimum of three sample runs must be performed. The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. For Method 18, either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time such as 15 minute intervals during the run.

(ii) The mass rate of either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP (Eand E,respectively) shall be computed.

(A) The following equations shall be used:

(B) When the TOC mass rate is calculated, the average concentration reading (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used in the equation in paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A) of this section.

(C) When the total HAP mass rate is calculated, only the HAP constituents shall be summed using the equation in paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) The percent reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP shall be calculated as follows:

(iv) If the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, the weight-percent reduction of total HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the device shall be determined by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP in all combusted vent streams and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP exiting the device, respectively.

(4) To determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total HAP concentration limit of this subpart, the owner or operator shall use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure the total HAP in Table 1 of this subpart or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to measure TOC. Method 18 may be used to measure methane and ethane and the measured concentration may be subtracted from the Method 25A measurement. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to Method 301 in appendix A of this part, may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration, corrected to 3 percent oxygen:

(i) A minimum of three sample runs must be performed. The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour. For Method 18, either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run.

(ii) The TOC concentration or total HAP concentration shall be calculated according to paragraph (m)(4)(ii)(A) or (m)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.

(A) The TOC concentration (C) is the average concentration readings provided by Method 25 A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, minus the concentration of methane and ethane.

(B) The total HAP concentration (C) shall be computed according to the following equation:

(iii) The measured TOC concentration or total HAP concentration shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen as follows:

(A) The emission rate correction factor or excess air, integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration (%O). Alternatively, the owner or operator may use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to determine the oxygen concentration. The samples shall be collected during the same time that the samples are collected for determining TOC concentration or total HAP concentration.

(B) The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen (C) shall be computed using the following equation:

(m) Determination of process vent stream flow rate and total HAP concentration.

(1) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, must be used for selection of the sampling site.

(2) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter. For vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter, sample at the center of the vent.

(3) Process vent stream gas volumetric flow rate must be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(4) Process vent stream total HAP concentration must be measured using the following procedures:

(i) Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, must be used to measure the total HAP concentration. Alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used.

(ii) Where Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is used, the following procedures must be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration:

(A) The minimum sampling time for each run must be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or four grab samples must be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples must be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15 minute intervals during the run.

(B) The total HAP concentration (C) must be computed according to the following equation:
