
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### ยง 63.694 Testing methods and procedures.
####### Determination of maximum HAP vapor pressure for off-site material in a tank.

(j)(1) The maximum HAP vapor pressure of the off-site material composition managed in a tank shall be determined using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section or by knowledge of the off-site material as specified by paragraph (j)(3) of this section.

(2) Direct measurement to determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure of an off-site material.

(i) Sampling. A sufficient number of samples shall be collected to be representative of the off-site material contained in the tank. All samples shall be collected and handled in accordance with written procedures prepared by the owner or operator and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan shall describe the procedure by which representative samples of the off-site material is collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan shall be maintained on-site in the plant site operating records. An example of an acceptable sampling plan includes a plan incorporating sample collection and handling procedures in accordance with the requirements specified in "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication No. SW-846 or Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(ii) Analysis. Any one of the following methods may be used to analyze the samples and compute the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the off-site material:

(A) Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60 appendix A;

(B) Methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, "Evaporation Loss from External Floating Roof Tanks,";

(C) Methods obtained from standard reference texts;

(D) ASTM Method 2879-83; or

(E) Any other method approved by the Administrator.
