
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.696 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator subject to this subpart shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.10 under 40 CFR 63 subpart A-General Provisions that are applicable to this subpart as specified in Table 2 of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator of a control device subject to this subpart shall maintain the records in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR 63.10 of this part.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Each owner or operator using an internal floating roof to comply with the tank control requirements specified in § 63.685(e) of this subpart or using an external floating roof to comply with the tank control requirements specified in § 63.685(f) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the following records:

(1) Documentation describing the floating roof design and the dimensions of the tank.

(2) A record for each inspection required by § 63.695(b) of this subpart, as applicable to the tank, that includes the following information: a tank identification number (or other unique identification description as selected by the owner or operator) and the date of inspection.

(3) The owner or operator shall record for each defect detected during inspections required by § 63.695(b) of this subpart the following information: the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with the provisions of § 63.695(b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.

(4) Owners and operators that use a tank equipped with an external floating roof in accordance with the provisions of § 63.685(f) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for each seal gap inspection required by § 63.695(b) describing the results of the seal gap measurements. The records shall include the date of that the measurements are performed, the raw data obtained for the measurements, and the calculations of the total gap surface area. In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 63.695(b) of this subpart, the records shall include a description of the repairs that were made, the date the repairs were made, and the date the separator was emptied, if necessary.

(e) Each owner or operator using a fixed roof to comply with the tank control requirements specified in § 63.685(g) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the following records:

(1) A record for each inspection required by § 63.695(b) of this subpart, as applicable to the tank, that includes the following information: a tank identification number (or other unique identification description as selected by the owner or operator) and the date of inspection.

(2) The owner or operator shall record for each defect detected during inspections required by § 63.695(b) of this subpart the following information: the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with the provisions of § 63.695(b)(4) of this section, the owner or operator shall also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.

(f) Each owner or operator using an enclosure to comply with the tank control requirements specified in § 63.685(i) of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for the most recent set of calculations and measurements performed by the owner or operator to verify that the enclosure meets the criteria of a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B.

(g) An owner or operator shall record, on a semiannual basis, the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 63.693(d) through (h) of this subpart, as applicable.

(1) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.

(2) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during these 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirement of § 63.693 (d) through (h) of this subpart, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.

(h) An owner or operator shall record the malfunction information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure, record the date, time and duration of the failure.

(2) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.683(e) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(i) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service, keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable.

(1) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices that the owner or operator elects to route emissions through a closed-vent system to a control device, process or drain system under the provisions in § 63.691(c)(4).

(2) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices that do not consist of or include a rupture disk, subject to the provisions in § 63.691(c)(2)(i).

(3) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, subject to the provisions in § 63.691(c)(2)(ii).

(4) The dates and results of the Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in § 63.691(c)(2)(i). The results of each monitoring event shall include:

(i) The measured background level.

(ii) The maximum instrument reading measured at each pressure relief device.

(5) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c)(3), keep records of each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:

(i) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.

(ii) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.

(iii) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the pressure release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.

(iv) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.

(v) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.

(j) (1) For pressure tank closure devices, as specified in § 63.685(h)(2), keep records of each release to the atmosphere, including the information specified in paragraphs (j)(3) though (7) of this section.

(2) For each closed vent system that includes bypass devices that could divert a stream away from the control device and into the atmosphere, as specified in § 63.693(c)(2), and each open-ended valve or line in an emergency shutdown system which is designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset, as specified in § 63.167(d) or 40 CFR 61.242-6(d), keep records of each release to the atmosphere, including the information specified in paragraphs (j)(3) though (9) of this section.

(3) The source, nature, and cause of the release.

(4) The date, time, and duration of the release.

(5) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.

(6) The actions taken to prevent this release.

(7) The measures adopted to prevent future such release.

(8) Hourly records of whether the bypass flow indicator specified under § 63.693(c)(2) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.

(9) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.693(c)(2), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the duration of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.
