
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.695 Inspection and monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner or operator must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate all monitoring system components according to §§ 63.8, 63.684(e), 63.693(d)(3), (e)(3), (f)(3), (g)(3), and (h)(3), and paragraph (a)(5) of this section and perform the inspection and monitoring procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) To inspect tank fixed roofs and floating roofs for compliance with the Tank Level 2 controls standards specified in § 63.685 of this subpart, the inspection procedures are specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) To inspect and monitor closed-vent systems for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.693 of this subpart, the inspection and monitoring procedures are specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) To inspect and monitor transfer system covers for compliance with the standards specified in § 63.689(c)(1) of this subpart, the inspection and monitoring procedures are specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) To monitor and record off-site material treatment processes for compliance with the standards specified in 63.684(e), the monitoring procedures are specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(5)(i) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), the owner or operator must operate the continuous monitoring system at all times the affected source is operating. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator is required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.

(ii) The owner or operator may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. The owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other required data collection periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system. The owner or operator must report any periods for which the monitoring system failed to collect required data.

(b) Tank Level 2 fixed roof and floating roof inspection requirements.

(1) Owners and operators that use a tank equipped with an internal floating roof in accordance with the provisions of § 63.685(e) of this subpart shall meet the following inspection requirements:

(i) The floating roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, the internal floating roof is not floating on the surface of the liquid inside the tank; liquid has accumulated on top of the internal floating roof; any portion of the roof seals have detached from the roof rim; holes, tears, or other openings are visible in the seal fabric; the gaskets no longer close off the waste surfaces from the atmosphere; or the slotted membrane has more than 10 percent open area.

(ii) The owner or operator shall inspect the internal floating roof components as follows except as provided for in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section:

(A) Visually inspect the internal floating roof components through openings on the fixed-roof (e.g., manholes and roof hatches) at least once every calendar year after initial fill, and

(B) Visually inspect the internal floating roof, primary seal, secondary seal (if one is in service), gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the tank is emptied and degassed and at least every 10 years. Prior to each inspection, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in accordance with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.697 of this subpart.

(iii) As an alternative to performing the inspections specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for an internal floating roof equipped with two continuous seals mounted one above the other, the owner or operator may visually inspect the internal floating roof, primary and secondary seals, gaskets, slotted membranes, and sleeve seals (if any) each time the tank is emptied and degassed and at least every 5 years. Prior to each inspection, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in accordance with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.697 of this subpart.

(iv) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(v) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.

(2) Owners and operators that use a tank equipped with an external floating roof in accordance with the provisions of § 63.685(f) of this subpart shall meet the following requirements:

(i) The owner or operator shall measure the external floating roof seal gaps in accordance with the following requirements:

(A) The owner or operator shall perform measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the primary seal within 60 days after initial operation of the tank following installation of the floating roof and, thereafter, at least once every 5 years. Prior to each inspection, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in accordance with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.697 of this subpart.

(B) The owner or operator shall perform measurements of gaps between the tank wall and the secondary seal within 60 days after initial operation of the separator following installation of the floating roof and, thereafter, at least once every year. Prior to each inspection, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in accordance with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.697 of this subpart.

(C) If a tank ceases to hold off-site material for a period of 1 year or more, subsequent introduction of off-site material into the tank shall be considered an initial operation for the purposes of paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(D) The owner shall determine the total surface area of gaps in the primary seal and in the secondary seal individually using the following procedure.
