
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.695 Inspection and monitoring requirements.
####### 4

() The total gap area shall be calculated by adding the gap surface areas determined for each identified gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually, and then dividing the sum for each seal type by the nominal diameter of the tank. These total gap areas for the primary seal and secondary seal are then compared to the respective standards for the seal type as specified in § 63.685(f)(1) of this subpart.

(E) In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 63.685(f)(1) of this subpart, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(F) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.

(ii) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the external floating roof in accordance with the following requirements:

(A) The floating roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to: holes, tears, or other openings in the rim seal or seal fabric of the floating roof; a rim seal detached from the floating roof; all or a portion of the floating roof deck being submerged below the surface of the liquid in the tank; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.

(B) The owner or operator shall perform the inspections following installation of the external floating roof and, thereafter, at least once every year.

(C) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(D) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696(d) of this subpart.

(3) Owners and operators that use a tank equipped with a fixed roof in accordance with the provisions of § 63.685(g) of this subpart shall meet the following requirements:

(i) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the separator wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices. In the case when a tank is buried partially or entirely underground, inspection is required only for those portions of the cover that extend to or above the ground surface, and those connections that are on such portions of the cover (e.g., fill ports, access hatches, gauge wells, etc.) and can be opened to the atmosphere.

(ii) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the fixed roof. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once every calendar year except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section.

(iii) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696(e) of this subpart.

(4) The owner or operator shall repair each defect detected during an inspection performed in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section in the following manner:

(i) The owner or operator shall within 45 calendar days of detecting the defect either repair the defect or empty the tank and remove it from service. If within this 45-day period the defect cannot be repaired or the tank cannot be removed from service without disrupting operations at the plant site, the owner or operator is allowed two 30-day extensions. In cases when an owner or operator elects to use a 30-day extension, the owner or operator shall prepare and maintain documentation describing the defect, explaining why alternative storage capacity is not available, and specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the tank emptied as soon as possible.

(ii) When a defect is detected during an inspection of a tank that has been emptied and degassed, the owner or operator shall repair the defect before refilling the tank.

(c) Owners and operators that use a closed-vent system in accordance with the provisions of § 63.693 of this subpart shall meet the following inspection and monitoring requirements:

(1) Each closed-vent system that is used to comply with § 63.693(c)(1)(i) of this subpart shall be inspected and monitored in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) At initial startup, the owner or operator shall monitor the closed-vent system components and connections using the procedures specified in § 63.694(k) of this subpart to demonstrate that the closed-vent system operates with no detectable organic emissions.

(ii) After initial startup, the owner or operator shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent system as follows:

(A) Closed-vent system joints, seams, or other connections that are permanently or semi-permanently sealed (e.g., a welded joint between two sections of hard piping or a bolted and gasketed ducting flange) shall be visually inspected at least once per year to check for defects that could result in air emissions. The owner or operator shall monitor a component or connection using the procedures specified in § 63.694(k) of this subpart to demonstrate that it operates with no detectable organic emissions following any time the component is repaired or replaced (e.g., a section of damaged hard piping is replaced with new hard piping) or the connection is unsealed (e.g., a flange is unbolted).

(B) Closed-vent system components or connections other than those specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, shall be monitored at least once per year using the procedures specified in § 63.694(k) of this subpart to demonstrate that components or connections operate with no detectable organic emissions.

(C) The continuous monitoring system required by § 63.693(b)(4)(i) shall monitor and record either an instantaneous data value at least once every 15 minutes or an average value for intervals of 15 minutes or less.

(D) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism required by § 63.693(c)(2)(ii) at least once every month to verify that the bypass mechanism is maintained in the closed position.

(iii) In the event that a defect or leak is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect or leak in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection and monitoring in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.

(2) Each closed-vent system that is used to comply with § 63.693(c)(1)(ii) of this subpart shall be inspected and monitored in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) The closed-vent system shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in ductwork or piping; loose connections; or broken or missing caps or other closure devices.

(ii) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the closed-vent system. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once every calendar year except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section.

(iii) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.

(3) The owner or operator shall repair all detected defects as follows:

(i) The owner or operator shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection.

(ii) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if either of the conditions specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) or (c)(3)(ii)(B) occurs. In this case, the owner or operator must repair the defect the next time the process or unit that vents to the closed-vent system is shutdown. Repair of the defect must be completed before the process or unit resumes operation.

(A) Completion of the repair is technically infeasible without the shutdown of the process or unit that vents to the closed-vent system.

(B) The owner or operator determines that the air emissions resulting from the repair of the defect within the specified period would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result by delaying the repair until the next time the process or unit that vents to the closed-vent system is shutdown.

(iii) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.

(d) Owners and operators that use a transfer system equipped with a cover in accordance with the provisions of § 63.689(c)(1) of this subpart shall meet the following inspection requirements:

(1) The cover and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the cover sections or between the cover and its mounting; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices. In the case when a transfer system is buried partially or entirely underground, inspection is required only for those portions of the cover that extend to or above the ground surface, and those connections that are on such portions of the cover (e.g., access hatches, etc.) and can be opened to the atmosphere.

(2) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the cover. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once every calendar year except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.

(5) The owner or operator shall repair all detected defects as follows:

(i) The owner or operator shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection except as provided in paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if the owner or operator determines that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the transfer system and no alternative transfer system is available at the site to accept the material normally handled by the system. In this case, the owner or operator shall repair the defect the next time the process or unit that is generating the material handled by the transfer system stops operation. Repair of the defect must be completed before the process or unit resumes operation.

(iii) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.696 of this subpart.
