
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.695 Inspection and monitoring requirements.
####### Control device monitoring requirements.

(e)For each control device required under § 63.693 to be monitored in accordance with the provisions of this paragraph (e), the owner or operator must ensure that each control device operates properly by monitoring the control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) A continuous parameter monitoring system must be used to measure the operating parameter or parameters specified for the control device in § 63.693(d) through § 63.693(g) of this subpart as applicable to the type and design of the control device. The continuous parameter monitoring system must meet the following specifications and requirements:

(i) The continuous parameter monitoring system must measure either an instantaneous value at least once every 15 minutes or an average value for intervals of 15 minutes or less and continuously record either:

(A) Each measured data value; or

(B) Each block average value for each 1-hour period or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values.

(ii) The monitoring system must be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide reasonable assurance that the monitoring equipment is operating properly.

(2) Using the data recorded by the monitoring system, the owner or operator must calculate the daily average value for each monitored operating parameter for each operating day. If operation of the control device is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If control device operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.

(3) For each monitored operating parameter, the owner or operator must establish a minimum operating parameter value or a maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate, to define the range of conditions at which the control device must be operated to continuously achieve the applicable performance requirements specified in § 63.693(b)(2) of this subpart. Each minimum or maximum operating parameter value must be established in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) If the owner or operator conducts a performance test to demonstrate control device performance, then the minimum or maximum operating parameter value must be established based on values measured during the performance test and supplemented, as necessary, by the control device design specifications, manufacturer recommendations, or other applicable information.

(ii) If the owner or operator uses a control device design analysis to demonstrate control device performance, then the minimum or maximum operating parameter value must be established based on the control device design analysis and supplemented, as necessary, by the control device manufacturer recommendations or other applicable information.

(4) A deviation for a given control device is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section being met. When multiple operating parameters are monitored for the same control device and during the same operating day more than one of these operating parameters meets a deviation criterion specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, then a single deviation is determined to have occurred for the control device for that operating day.

(i) A deviation occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit) established for the operating parameter in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(ii) A deviation occurs when the period of control device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and the monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours. Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour.

(iii) A deviation occurs when the period of control device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than 1 of the hours during the period does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data. Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour.

(5) For each deviation, except when the deviation occurs during periods of non-operation of the unit or the process that is vented to the control device (resulting in cessation of HAP emissions to which the monitoring applies), the owner or operator shall be deemed to have failed to have applied control in a manner that achieves the required operating parameter limits. Failure to achieve the required operating parameter limits is a violation of this standard.
