
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.701 Applicability.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the provisions of this subpart apply to:

(1) Each new and existing magnetic tape manufacturing operation located at a major source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions; and

(2) A magnetic tape manufacturing operation for which the owner or operator chooses to use the provisions of § 63.703(b) and (h) to obtain a Federally enforceable limit on its potential to emit HAP.

(b) This subpart does not apply to the following:

(1) Research or laboratory facilities; and

(2) Any coating operation that produces a quantity of magnetic tape that is 1 percent or less of total production (in terms of total square footage coated) from that coating operation in any 12-month period.

(c) The affected source subject to this standard is the magnetic tape manufacturing operation, as defined in § 63.702.

(d) An owner or operator of an existing affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply according to the following schedule:

(1) Within 3 years after the effective date of the standard, if the owner or operator is required to install a new add-on air pollution control device to meet the requirements of § 63.703(c) or (g); or

(2) Within 2 years after the effective date of the standard, if a new add-on air pollution control device is not needed to comply with § 63.703(c) or (g) of these standards.

(e) The compliance date for an owner or operator of a new affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart is immediately upon startup of the affected source.

(f) The provisions of this subpart apply during periods of startup and shutdown, and whenever magnetic tape manufacturing operations are taking place.

(g) Owners or operators of affected sources subject to the provisions of this subpart shall also comply with the requirements of subpart A as identified in Table 1, according to the applicability of subpart A to such sources.

(h) In any title V permit for an affected source, all research or laboratory facilities that are exempt from the requirements of this subpart shall be clearly identified.
