
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.697 Reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(4) A summary report specified in § 63.10(e)(3) shall be submitted on a semiannual basis (once every 6-month period). The summary report must include a description of all deviations as defined in §§ 63.683(f) and 63.695(e) that have occurred during the 6-month reporting period. For each deviation caused when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit), the report must include the daily average values of the monitored parameter, the applicable operating parameter limit, and the date and duration of the period that the deviation occurred. For each deviation caused by lack of monitoring data, the report must include the date and duration of period when the monitoring data were not collected and the reason why the data were not collected.

(5) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c), report the results of all monitoring conducted within the reporting period.

(ii) For pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service subject to § 63.691(c)(2)(i), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, if detected more than 5 days after the pressure release.

(iii) For pressure relief devices in off-site material service subject to § 63.691(c)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:

(A) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.

(B) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the pressure release and the method used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.
