
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations
###### § 63.697 Reporting requirements.
####### Pressure tank closure device or bypass deviation report.

(6)The owner or operator must submit to the Administrator the information specified in paragraph (b)(6)(iv) of this section when any of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section are met.

(i) Any pressure tank closure device, as specified in § 63.685(h)(2), has released to the atmosphere.

(ii) Any closed vent system that includes bypass devices that could divert a vent a stream away from the control device and into the atmosphere, as specified in § 63.693(c)(2), has released directly to the atmosphere.

(iii) Any open-ended valve or line in an emergency shutdown system which is designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset, as specified in § 63.167(d) or 40 CFR 61.242-6(d), has released directly to the atmosphere.

(iv) The pressure tank closure device or bypass deviation report must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) The source, nature and cause of the release.

(B) The date, time and duration of the discharge.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the release and the method used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such releases.

(c) Each owner or operator using an internal floating roof or external floating roof to comply with the Tank Level 2 control requirements specified in § 63.685(d) of this subpart shall notify the Administrator in advance of each inspection required under § 63.695(b) of this subpart to provide the Administrator with the opportunity to have an observer present during the inspection. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the date and location of the inspection as follows:

(1) Prior to each inspection to measure external floating roof seal gaps as required under § 63.695(b) of this subpart, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the owner or operator so that it is received by the Administrator at least 30 calendar days before the date the measurements are scheduled to be performed.

(2) Prior to each visual inspection of an internal floating roof or external floating roof in a tank that has been emptied and degassed, written notification shall be prepared and sent by the owner or operator so that it is received by the Administrator at least 30 calendar days before refilling the tank except when an inspection is not planned as provided for in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(3) When a visual inspection is not planned and the owner or operator could not have known about the inspection 30 calendar days before refilling the tank, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible, but no later than 7 calendar days before refilling of the tank. This notification may be made by telephone and immediately followed by a written explanation for why the inspection is unplanned. Alternatively, written notification, including the explanation for the unplanned inspection, may be sent so that it is received by the Administrator at least 7 calendar days before refilling the tank.
