
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### ยง 63.702 Definitions.
####### Total enclosure

means a structure that is constructed around a gaseous emission source so that all gaseous pollutants emitted from the source are collected and ducted through a control device, such that 100 percent capture efficiency is achieved. There are no fugitive emissions from a total enclosure. The only openings in a total enclosure are forced makeup air and exhaust ducts and any natural draft openings such as those that allow raw materials to enter and exit the enclosure for processing. All access doors or windows are closed during routine operation of the enclosed source. Brief, occasional openings of such doors or windows to accommodate process equipment adjustments are acceptable, but if such openings are routine or if an access door remains open during the entire operation, the access door must be considered a natural draft opening. The average inward face velocity across the natural draft openings of the enclosure must be calculated including the area of such access doors. The drying oven itself may be part of the total enclosure. A permanent enclosure that meets the requirements found in ยง 63.705(c)(4)(i) is a total enclosure.
