
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.704 Compliance and monitoring requirements.
####### Continuous compliance monitoring.

(c)Following the date on which the initial compliance demonstration is completed, continuous compliance with the standards shall be demonstrated as outlined in paragraphs (c), (d), (e), or (f) of this section.

(1)(i) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) of this subpart shall monitor the applicable parameters specified in paragraphs (c)(3), (4), (5), (6), (7), or (9) of this section depending on the type of control technique used, and shall monitor the parameters specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section.

(ii) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.703(c)(5) of this subpart shall demonstrate continuous compliance as required by paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(iii) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.703(d)(2) of this subpart shall demonstrate continuous compliance as required by paragraph (e) of this section.

(iv) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.703(g) of this subpart shall demonstrate continuous compliance as required by paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Compliance monitoring shall be subject to the following provisions.

(i) Except as allowed by paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section, all continuous emission monitors shall comply with performance specification (PS) 8 or 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate depending on whether volatile organic compound (VOC) or HAP concentration is being measured. The requirements in appendix F of 40 CFR part 60 shall also be followed. In conducting the quarterly audits required by appendix F, owners or operators must challenge the monitors with compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled.

(ii) All temperature monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to the manufacturer's specifications. The thermocouple calibration shall be verified or replaced every 3 months. The replacement shall be done either if the owner or operator chooses not to calibrate the thermocouple, or if the thermocouple cannot be properly calibrated.

(iii) If the effluent from multiple emission points are combined prior to being channeled to a common control device, the owner or operator is required only to monitor the common control device, not each emission point.

(3) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703(c), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) through the use of a control device and establishing a site-specific operating parameter in accordance with § 63.704(b)(1) shall fulfill the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3)(i) of this section and paragraph (c)(3)(ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a continuous emission monitor.

(A) The continuous emission monitor shall be used to measure continuously the total HAP or VOC concentration at both the inlet and the outlet whenever HAP from magnetic tape manufacturing operations are vented to the control device, if continuous compliance is demonstrated through a percent efficiency calculation (§ 63.704(b)(1)(ii)); or

(B) The continuous emission monitor shall be used to measure continuously the total outlet HAP or VOC concentration whenever HAP from magnetic tape manufacturing operations are vented to the control device, if the provisions of § 63.704(b)(1)(i) are being used to determine continuous compliance.

(C) For owners or operators using a nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of using continuous emission monitors as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) (A) or (B) of this section, the owner or operator may use a portable monitoring device to monitor total HAP or VOC concentration at the inlet and outlet, or outlet of the carbon adsorber, as appropriate.
