
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.704 Compliance and monitoring requirements.
####### Compliance provisions for nonrepresentative operating conditions.

(11)(i) The owner or operator of an affected source may conduct multiple performance tests to establish the operating parameter value, or range of values, that demonstrates compliance with the standards in § 63.703 during various operating conditions.

(ii) To establish an alternate outlet concentration limit as provided in § 63.703(i), the owner or operator, when the coating operation is not occurring, shall conduct a performance test using the methods in § 63.705 for determining initial compliance with § 63.703 (c)(1), (e)(1)(i) or (f)(1)(i), or shall collect data from continuous emission monitors used to determine continuous compliance as specified in § 63.704 (b) and (c). During the period in which this limit is being established, the control device shall be operated in accordance with good air pollution control practices and in the same manner as it was operated to achieve the emission limitation for coating operations. Owners or operators choosing to establish such an alternative shall also comply with paragraphs (b)(11)(ii) (A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall submit the alternate outlet HAP concentration limit within 180 days after the compliance demonstration required by § 63.7 of subpart A, to the Administrator, as required by § 63.707(k)(1).

(B) The Administrator will approve or disapprove the limit proposed in accordance with paragraph (b)(11)(ii)(A) of this section within 60 days of receipt of the report required by § 63.707(k)(1), and any other supplemental information requested by the Administrator to support the alternate limit.
