
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.704 Compliance and monitoring requirements.
####### 3

() The probe inlet of the monitoring device shall be placed at approximately the center of the carbon adsorber outlet vent. The probe shall be held there for at least 5 minutes during which flow into the carbon adsorber is expected to occur. The maximum reading during that period shall be used as the measurement.

(ii) If complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) through the use of a carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all of the carbon vessels, the owner or operator shall not operate the control device at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i) or at an average outlet concentration exceeding the site-specific operating parameter value or that required by § 63.703(i), for three consecutive adsorption cycles. Operation in this manner shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i).

(iii) If complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) through the use of a carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each of the multiple carbon adsorber vessels, the owner or operator shall not operate any carbon adsorber vessel at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i), or at an average outlet concentration exceeding the site-specific operating parameter value or that required by § 63.703(i), as calculated daily using a 3-day rolling average. Operation in this manner shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i).

(iv) If complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) through the use of any control device other than a carbon adsorber, the owner or operator shall not operate the control device at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i), or at an average outlet concentration exceeding the site-specific operating parameter value or that required by § 63.703(c)(2) or (i), as calculated for any 3-hour period. Operation in this manner shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i).

(v) If complying with § 63.703(c)(1) through the use of a nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of the requirements of paragraphs (c)(3) (ii) or (iii) of this section, the owner or operator may:

(A) monitor the VOC or HAP concentration of the adsorber exhaust daily or at intervals no greater than 20 percent of the design carbon replacement interval, whichever is greater; operation of the control device at a HAP or VOC concentration greater than that determined in accordance with § 63.704(b)(1)(iii) shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i); or

(B) replace the carbon in the carbon adsorber system with fresh carbon at a regular predetermined time interval as determined in accordance with § 63.704(b)(5); failure to replace the carbon at this predetermined time interval shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i).

(4) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) through the use of a condenser as the add-on air pollution control device, and demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.704(b)(2), shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a thermocouple to measure continuously the temperature of the condenser vapor exhaust stream whenever HAP from magnetic tape manufacturing operations are vented to the control device. Operation of the control device at an average vapor exhaust temperature greater than the site-specific operating parameter value or values established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(2) for any 3-hour period shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i) or (i).

(5) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i) through the use of a thermal incinerator and demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.704(b)(3) shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a thermocouple to measure continuously the combustion temperature whenever HAP from magnetic tape manufacturing operations are vented to the control device. Operation of the control device at an average combustion temperature less than the operating parameter value or values established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(3) for any 3-hour period shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i).

(6) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i) through the use of a catalytic incinerator and demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.704(b)(4) shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a thermocouple to measure continuously the gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed whenever HAP from magnetic tape manufacturing operations are vented to the control device. Operation of the control device at an average upstream gas temperature, or at an average gas temperature difference across the catalyst bed, less than the operating parameter values established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(4) for any 3-hour period shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), or (f)(1)(i).

(7) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) by capturing emissions through a room, enclosure, or hood shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the instrumentation necessary to measure continuously the site-specific operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(6) whenever HAP from magnetic tape manufacturing operations are vented through the capture device. Operation of the capture device at an average value greater than or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter value established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(6) for any 3-hour period shall constitute a violation of § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i).

(8) The owner or operator of an affected source complying with § 63.703(c)(5) shall demonstrate continuous compliance by using a coating that has a HAP content of no greater than 0.18 kilograms of HAP per liter of coating solids, as measured in accordance with § 63.705(c)(5), and by maintaining and reporting the records required by §§ 63.706(f) and 63.707(e) and (i)(2).

(9) For owners or operators complying with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4) through the use of a solvent recovery device and demonstrating initial compliance in accordance with the provisions of § 63.705(c)(1), continuous compliance shall be demonstrated using procedures in § 63.705(c)(1) and through the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 63.706(d), 63.707(d), and 63.707(i)(5). The provisions of § 63.8(b) (2) and (3), (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) (1), and (2) of subpart A do not apply.

(10) The owner or operator of an affected emission point using a vent system that contains bypass lines (not including equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes) that could potentially divert a vent stream away from the control device used to comply with § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), (c)(4), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i) shall:

(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that provides a record of vent stream flow at least once every 15 minutes; records shall be generated as specified in § 63.706(c)(1); and the flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere; or

(ii) Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration; a visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line; or

(iii) Ensure that any bypass line valve is in the closed position through continuous monitoring of valve position; the monitoring system shall be inspected at least once every month to ensure that it is functioning properly; or

(iv) Use an automatic shutdown system in which any HAP-emitting operations are ceased when flow from these operations is diverted away from the control device to any bypass line; the automatic system shall be inspected at least once every month to ensure that it is functioning properly.

(d) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703(g) shall demonstrate continuous compliance in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.

(1) An owner or operator that established the steam-to-feed ratio as the site-specific operating parameter in accordance with § 63.704(b)(10)(i) shall continuously measure the steam-to-feed ratio whenever HAP-containing wastewater from magnetic tape manufacturing operations is being fed to the steam stripper. Operation of the steam stripper at a steam-to-feed ratio less than the operating parameter value or values established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(10)(i) for any 3-hour period shall constitute a violation of § 63.703(g).

(2) An owner or operator that established the total outlet VOHAP concentration of the wastewater discharge as the site-specific operating parameter in accordance with § 63.704(b)(10)(ii) shall measure the total VOHAP concentration of the wastewater discharge once per month. Operation of the control device at an outlet VOHAP concentration greater than the operating parameter value or values established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(10)(ii) for any month shall constitute a violation of § 63.703(g).

(e) Owners or operators complying with § 63.703(d)(2) of this subpart through the use of a baghouse or fabric filter shall perform visible emission testing each day that particulate HAP transfer occurs, using the procedures in § 63.705(b)(10). Owners or operators shall also install, calibrate, and operate the instrumentation necessary to continuously monitor the ventilation air flow rate in the inlet duct to the baghouse or fabric filter whenever particulate HAP transfer occurs. The occurrence of visible emissions shall constitute a violation of § 63.703(d)(2), and the operation of the baghouse or fabric filter at a flow rate less than the value or values established in accordance with § 63.704(b)(7) for any 3-hour period shall constitute a violation of § 63.703(d)(2).

(f) An owner or operator who uses an air pollution control device not listed in § 63.704 to comply with § 63.703(c), (e)(1)(i), (f)(1)(i), or (i), or a device other than a steam stripper to comply with § 63.703(g) shall submit to the Administrator a description of the device, test data verifying the performance of the device, and appropriate site-specific operating parameters that will be monitored to demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard. The monitoring plan submitted by an owner or operator in accordance with this paragraph is subject to approval by the Administrator.
