
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.705 Performance test methods and procedures to determine initial compliance.
####### 2

() Determine FV by equation 6:

(D) The air passing through all natural draft openings shall flow into the enclosure continuously. If FV is less than or equal to 9,000 meters per hour, the continuous inward flow of air shall be verified by continuous observation using smoke tubes, streamers, tracer gases, or other means approved by the Administrator over the period that the volumetric flow rate tests required to determine FV are carried out. If FV is greater than 9,000 meters per hour, the direction of airflow through the natural draft openings shall be presumed to be inward at all times without verification.

(ii) Determine the control device efficiency using equation (2) or equations (4) and (5), as applicable, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (3) through (8).

(iii) Be in compliance if either of the following criteria are met:

(A) The installation of a total enclosure is demonstrated and the value of E determined from equation (2) (or the value of Hdetermined from equations (4) and (5), as applicable) is equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4); or

(B) When the owner or operator is subject to § 63.703(c)(2), the installation of a total enclosure is demonstrated and the value of Cat the outlet of the incinerator is demonstrated to be no greater than 20 ppmv by compound, on a dry basis.

(5) To demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with § 63.703(c)(5), each owner or operator of an affected source shall determine the mass of HAP contained in the coating per volume of coating solids applied for each batch of coating applied, according to the procedures of paragraphs (c)(5) (i) through (iii) of this section. If a batch of coating is identical to a previous batch of coating applied, the original calculations can be used to demonstrate the compliance of subsequent identical batches. The calculation of the HAP content of the coating used to demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(c)(5) shall be submitted to the Administrator with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) and § 63.707(e). When demonstrating compliance by this procedure, § 63.7(e)(3) of subpart A does not apply.

(i) Determine the weight fraction of HAP in each coating applied using formulation data as specified in § 63.705(b)(2);

(ii) Determine the volume of coating solids in each coating applied from the facility records; and

(iii) Compute the mass of HAP per volume of coating solids by equation 7:

(iv) The owner or operator of an affected source is in compliance with § 63.703(c)(5) if the value of G is less than or equal to 0.18 kilogram of HAP per liter of coating solids applied.

(6) When nonregenerative carbon adsorbers are used to comply with § 63.703(c)(1), the owner or operator may conduct a design evaluation to demonstrate initial compliance in lieu of following the compliance test procedures of paragraph (c) (1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. The design evaluation shall consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature, and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, capacity of the carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and the emission point operating schedule.

(d)(1) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(c) when hard piping or ductwork is used to direct HAP emissions from a HAP source to the control device, each owner or operator shall demonstrate upon inspection that the criteria of paragraph (d)(1)(i) and paragraph (d)(1) (ii) or (iii) are met.

(i) The equipment must be vented to a control device.

(ii) The control device efficiency (E or H, as applicable) determined using equation (2) or equations (4) and (5), respectively, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.705(b) (3) through (8), must be equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.703 (c)(1), (c)(3), or (c)(4), or the outlet concentration must be no greater than 20 ppmv by compound, on a dry basis, as required by § 63.703(c)(2).

(iii) When a nonregenerative carbon adsorber is used, the ductwork from the affected emission point(s) must be vented to the control device and the carbon adsorber must be demonstrated, through the procedures of § 63.705(c) (1), (2), (3), (4), or (6) to meet the requirements of § 63.703(c)(1).

(2) To demonstrate initial compliance with provisions for mix preparation equipment, owners or operators shall, in addition to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, ensure that covers are closed at all times except when adding ingredients, withdrawing samples, transferring the contents, or making visual inspection when such activities cannot be carried out with the cover in place. Such activities shall be carried out through ports of the minimum practical size.

(e) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(e), the owner or operator of a wash sink subject to the provisions of this standard shall:

(1) If complying with § 63.703(e)(1)(ii), maintain at least the required minimum freeboard ratio at all times; or

(2) If complying with § 63.703(e)(1)(i), the owner or operator of an existing wash sink that vents emissions from the wash sink to a control device prior to March 11, 1994 must demonstrate that the control device is at least 95-percent efficient in accordance with § 63.705(c) (2), (3), (4), or (6); or

(3) If complying with § 63.703(e)(1)(i), each owner or operator that vents emissions from the wash sink, through a capture device, and to a control device starting on or after March 11, 1994, must demonstrate that the overall HAP control efficiency is at least 88 percent using the test methods and procedures in § 63.705(c) (2), (3), (4), or (6).

(f) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(f), the owner or operator shall:

(1) If complying with § 63.703(f)(1)(ii), install and use a closed system for flushing fixed lines; or

(2) If complying with § 63.703(f)(1)(i), each owner or operator that vents emissions from the flushing operation, through a capture device, and to a control device must demonstrate that the overall HAP control efficiency is at least 95 percent using the test methods and procedures in § 63.705(c) (2), (3), (4), or (6).

(g) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(d), the owner or operator shall:

(1) If complying with § 63.703(d)(1), install an enclosed transfer device for conveying particulate HAP, and use this device, following manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures developed for the device; or

(2) If complying with § 63.703(d)(2):

(i) Test the baghouse or fabric filter to demonstrate that there are no visible emissions using the test method in § 63.705(b)(10); and

(ii) provide engineering calculations in accordance with § 63.707(h) of this subpart with the performance test results required by § 63.7(g)(1) and § 63.9(h) of subpart A, to demonstrate that the ventilation rate from the particulate transfer activity to the control device is sufficient for capturing the particulate HAP.

(h) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.703(g), the owner or operator of an affected source shall follow the compliance procedures of either paragraph (h)(1), paragraph (h)(2), or paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall submit to the permitting authority with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) and § 63.707(f) the design specifications demonstrating that the control technique meets the required efficiency for each HAP compound. For steam strippers, these specifications shall include at a minimum: feed rate, steam rate, number of theoretical trays, number of actual trays, feed composition, bottoms composition, overheads composition, and inlet feed temperature.

(2) The owner or operator shall demonstrate the compliance of a treatment process with the parts per million by weight (ppmw) wastewater stream concentration limits specified in § 63.703(g)(1)(ii) by measuring the concentration of total VOHAP at the outlet of the treatment process using the method specified in § 63.705(b)(9) (i) or (ii). A minimum of three representative samples of the wastewater stream exiting the treatment process, which are representative of normal flow and concentration conditions, shall be collected and analyzed. Wastewater samples shall be collected using the sampling procedures specified in Method 25D of appendix A of part 60. Where feasible, samples shall be taken from an enclosed pipe prior to the wastewater being exposed to the atmosphere. When sampling from an enclosed pipe is not feasible, a minimum of three representative samples shall be collected in a manner that minimizes exposure of the sample to the atmosphere and loss of organic HAP prior to analysis.

(3) The owner or operator shall demonstrate the compliance of a treatment process with the HAP fraction removed requirement specified in § 63.703(g)(1)(i) by measuring the concentration of each HAP at the inlet and outlet of the treatment process using the method specified in § 63.705(b)(9) (i) or (ii) and the procedures of paragraphs (h)(3) (i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The same test method shall be used to analyze the wastewater samples from both the inlet and outlet of the treatment process.

(ii) The HAP mass flow rate of each individually speciated HAP compound entering the treatment process (E) and exiting the treatment process (E) shall be determined by computing the product of the flow rate of the wastewater stream entering or exiting the treatment process, and the HAP concentration of each individual HAP compound of the entering or exiting wastewater streams, respectively.

(A) The flow rate of the entering and exiting wastewater streams shall be determined using inlet and outlet flow meters, respectively.

(B) The average HAP concentration of each individual HAP of the entering and exiting wastewater streams shall be determined according to the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(9)(i)(A) or (b)(9)(ii)(B) of this section. If measuring the VOHAP concentration of an individual HAP in accordance with § 63.705(b)(9)(i)(A), the concentrations of the individual organic VOHAP measured in the water shall be corrected to a HAP concentration by dividing each VOHAP concentration by the compound-specific fraction measured factor (F) listed in table 34 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G.

(C) Three grab samples of the entering wastewater stream shall be taken at equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of three runs.

(D) Three grab samples of the exiting wastewater stream shall be taken at equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of three runs conducted over the same 3-hour period at which the total HAP mass flow rate entering the treatment process is determined.

(E) The HAP mass flow rates of each individual HAP compound entering and exiting the treatment process are calculated as follows:

(iii) The fraction removed across the treatment process for each individually speciated HAP compound shall be calculated as follows:

(i) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these activities are to be included when determining if the standards specified in § 63.703 are being attained.

(j) An owner or operator who uses compliance techniques other than those specified in this subpart shall submit a description of those compliance procedures, subject to the Administrator's approval, in accordance with § 63.7(f) of subpart A.
