
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.741 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Affected sources.

(c)The affected sources to which the provisions of this subpart apply are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. The activities subject to this subpart are limited to the manufacture or rework of aerospace vehicles or components as defined in this subpart. Where a dispute arises relating to the applicability of this subpart to a specific activity, the owner or operator shall demonstrate whether or not the activity is regulated under this subpart.

(1) Each cleaning operation as follows:

(i) All hand-wipe cleaning operations constitute an affected source.

(ii) Each spray gun cleaning operation constitutes an affected source.

(iii) All flush cleaning operations constitute an affected source.

(2) For organic HAP or VOC emissions, each primer application operation, which is the total of all primer applications at the facility.

(3) For organic HAP or VOC emissions, each topcoat application operation, which is the total of all topcoat applications at the facility.

(4) For organic HAP or VOC emissions, each specialty coating application operation, which is the total of all specialty coating applications at the facility.

(5) For organic HAP or VOC emissions, each depainting operation, which is the total of all depainting at the facility.

(6) Each chemical milling maskant application operation, which is the total of all chemical milling maskant applications at the facility.

(7) Each waste storage and handling operation, which is the total of all waste handling and storage at the facility.

(8) For inorganic HAP emissions, each spray booth, portable enclosure, or hangar that contains a primer, topcoat, or specialty coating application operation subject to § 63.745(g), or a depainting operation subject to § 63.746(b)(4).

(d) An owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall obtain an operating permit from the permitting authority in the State in which the source is located. The owner or operator shall apply for and obtain such permit in accordance with the regulations contained in part 70 of this chapter and in applicable State regulations.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) This subpart does not regulate research and development, quality control, and laboratory testing activities, chemical milling, metal finishing, electrodeposition (except for electrodeposition of paints), composites processing (except for cleaning and coating of composite parts or components that become part of an aerospace vehicle or component as well as composite tooling that comes in contact with such composite parts or components prior to cure), electronic parts and assemblies (except for cleaning and topcoating of completed assemblies), manufacture of aircraft transparencies, and wastewater operations at aerospace facilities. These requirements do not apply to the rework of aircraft or aircraft components if the holder of the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) design approval, or the holder's licensee, is not actively manufacturing the aircraft or aircraft components. These requirements also do not apply to parts and assemblies not critical to the vehicle's structural integrity or flight performance. The requirements of this subpart do not apply to primers, topcoats, specialty coatings, chemical milling maskants, strippers, and cleaning solvents that meet the definition of non-HAP material, as determined from manufacturer's representations, such as in a material safety data sheet or product data sheet, or testing, except that if an owner or operator chooses to include one or more non-HAP primer, topcoat, specialty coating, or chemical milling maskant in averaging under § 63.743(d), then the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.752(c)(4) shall apply. The requirements of this subpart also do not apply to primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings that meet the definition of "classified national security information" in § 63.742. Additional specific exemptions from regulatory coverage are set forth in paragraphs (e), (g), (h), (i) and (j) of this section and §§ 63.742, 63.744(a)(1), (b), (e), 63.745(a), (f)(3), (g)(4), 63.746(a), (b)(5), 63.747(c)(3), and 63.749(d).

(g) The requirements for primers, topcoats, specialty coatings, and chemical milling maskants in §§ 63.745 and 63.747 do not apply to the use of low-volume coatings in these categories for which the annual total of each separate formulation used at a facility does not exceed 189 l (50 gal), and the combined annual total of all such primers, topcoats, specialty coatings, and chemical milling maskants used at a facility does not exceed 757 l (200 gal). Primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings exempted under paragraph (f) of this section and under § 63.745(f)(3) and (g)(4) are not included in the 50 and 200 gal limits. Chemical milling maskants exempted under § 63.747(c)(3) are also not included in these limits.

(h) Regulated activities associated with space vehicles designed to travel beyond the limit of the earth's atmosphere, including but not limited to satellites, space stations, and the Space Shuttle System (including orbiter, external tanks, and solid rocket boosters), are exempt from the requirements of this subpart, except for depainting operations found in § 63.746.

(i) Any waterborne coating for which the manufacturer's supplied data demonstrate that organic HAP and VOC contents are less than or equal to the organic HAP and VOC content limits for its coating type, as specified in §§ 63.745(c) and 63.747(c), is exempt from the following requirements of this subpart: §§ 63.745 (d) and (e), 63.747(d) and (e), 63.749 (d) and (h), 63.750 (c) through (h) and (k) through (n), 63.752 (c) and (f), and 63.753 (c) and (e). A facility shall maintain the manufacturer's supplied data and annual purchase records for each exempt waterborne coating readily available for inspection and review and shall retain these data for 5 years.

(j) Regulated activities associated with the rework of antique aerospace vehicles or components are exempt from the requirements of this subpart.
