
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EE - National Emission Standards for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.707 Reporting requirements.

(a) Except as stipulated in § 63.703(b), (c)(5), and (h), the owner or operator of a magnetic tape manufacturing operation subject to this subpart shall fulfill all applicable reporting requirements in § 63.7 through § 63.10, as outlined in Table 1 to this subpart. These reports shall be submitted to the Administrator or delegated State.

(b) The owner or operator of an existing magnetic tape manufacturing operation subject to § 63.703(b) and (h) shall include the values of the limits on the amount of HAP utilized as determined in § 63.703(b)(2), along with supporting calculations, in the initial notification report required by § 63.9(b).

(c) The owner or operator of a new magnetic tape manufacturing operation subject to § 63.703(h) shall include the values of the limits on the amount of HAP utilized as determined in § 63.703(b)(2), along with supporting calculations, and the amount of HAP expected to be utilized during the first consecutive 12-month period of operation in the initial notification report required by § 63.9(b).

(d) The owner or operator subject to § 63.703(c) and following the compliance provisions of § 63.705(c)(1) (material balance calculation) shall include with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) the results of the initial material balance calculation.

(e) The owner or operator subject to § 63.703(c)(5) and following the compliance provisions of § 63.705(c)(5) (low-HAP coating) shall include with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) the results of the initial low-HAP coating demonstration.

(f) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of § 63.703(g) and demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.705(h)(1) shall submit to the permitting authority with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) the design specifications demonstrating that the control technique meets the required efficiency. For steam strippers, these specifications shall include at a minimum: feed rate, steam rate, number of theoretical trays, number of actual trays, feed composition, bottoms composition, overheads composition, and inlet feed temperature.

(g) The owner or operator of an affected source that is complying with § 63.703(c)(1) through the use of a nonregenerative carbon adsorber and demonstrating initial compliance in accordance with § 63.705(c)(6) shall submit to the permitting authority with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) the design evaluation.

(h) The owner or operator of an affected source that is complying with § 63.703(d) through the use of a baghouse or fabric filter and demonstrating initial compliance in accordance with § 63.705(g)(2) shall submit to the permitting authority with the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) the engineering calculations that support the minimum ventilation rate needed to capture HAP particulates for delivery to the control device.

(i) Excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary reports shall be submitted as required by § 63.10(e).

(1) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.704 shall include deviations of monitored values from the operating parameter values required by § 63.704(c) in the reports. In the case of exceedances, the report must also contain a description and timing of the steps taken to address the cause of the exceedance.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.703(c)(5) shall report the HAP content of each batch of coating applied as the monitored operating parameter value in the reports.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.703(e)(1)(ii) and maintaining a minimum freeboard ratio of 75 percent shall report violations of the standard (freeboard ratio is less than 75 percent) in the reports.

(4) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.704(c)(10) of this subpart shall include records of any time period and duration of time that flow was diverted from the control device, as well as the results of monthly inspections required by § 63.704(c)(10)(ii), (iii), and (iv) in the reports.

(5) The owner or operator of an affected source complying with § 63.703(c) by performing a material balance calculation in accordance with § 63.705(c)(1) shall report any exceedances of the standard, as demonstrated through the calculation, in the reports.

(j) The owner or operator of a magnetic tape manufacturing operation subject to the provisions of § 63.703(h) shall report the amount of HAP utilized in each 12-month period in an annual report to the Administrator according to the following schedule:

(1) For existing sources, the first report shall cover the 12-month period prior to the source's compliance date and shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 30 days after the compliance date; and

(2) For new sources, the first report shall include the quantity of HAP that is expected to be utilized during the first 12 months of operation and shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 30 days after the compliance date;

(3) Annual reports shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 30 days after the last 12-month period included in the report; and

(4) A report shall also be submitted no later than 30 days after monthly records required to be maintained by § 63.706(e) indicate that any limit on the amount of HAP utilized has been exceeded. The report shall indicate the amount by which the limit has been exceeded.

(k) The owner or operator establishing an alternate HAP outlet concentration limit in accordance with §§ 63.703(i) and 63.704(b)(11)(ii) shall:

(1) To support the proposed limit, submit the following within 180 days following completion of the performance test required by § 63.7:

(i) The performance test or CEM data collected to establish the limit;

(ii) Records of when coating operations were down;

(iii) The rationale for the alternate proposed limit; and

(iv) A statement signed by a responsible official of the company that the control device was operated in accordance with good air pollution control practices and in the same manner it was operated to achieve compliance with the emission limitation for coating operations; and

(2) In the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required by § 63.10(e)(3), include parameter or CEM data to demonstrate compliance or noncompliance with the alternate outlet HAP concentration established in accordance with §§ 63.703(i) and 63.704(b)(11)(ii) once the limit is approved.
