
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.742 Definitions.
####### Nomenclature for determining carbon adsorber efficiency

-The nomenclature defined below is used in ยง 63.750(g):

(1) A= the area of each natural draft opening (k) in a total enclosure, in square meters.

(2) C= the concentration of HAP or VOC in each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device, in parts per million by volume.

(3) C= the concentration of HAP or VOC in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in parts per million by volume.

(4) C= the concentration of HAP or VOC in each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device from the affected source, in parts per million by volume.

(5) C= the concentration of HAP or VOC in each uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected source, in parts per million by volume.

(6) C= the concentration of HAP or VOC in each uncontrolled gas stream entering each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in parts per million by volume. For the purposes of calculating the efficiency of the individual carbon adsorber vessel, Cmay be measured in the carbon adsorption system's common inlet duct prior to the branching of individual inlet ducts to the individual carbon adsorber vessels.

(7) C= the concentration of HAP or VOC in the gas stream exiting each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v), in parts per million by volume.

(8) E = the control device efficiency achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction).

(9) F = the HAP or VOC emission capture efficiency of the HAP or VOC capture system achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction).

(10) FV = the average inward face velocity across all natural draft openings in a total enclosure, in meters per hour.

(11) H= the individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) efficiency achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a fraction).

(12) H= the efficiency of the carbon adsorption system calculated when each carbon adsorber vessel has an individual exhaust stack (expressed as a fraction).

(13) M= the total mass in kilograms of each batch of coating (i) applied, or of each coating applied at an affected coating operation during a 7 to 30-day period, as appropriate, as determined from records at the affected source. This quantity shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or if ingredients are added after the mass of the coating has been determined, appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for them.

(14) M= the total mass in kilograms of HAP or VOC recovered for a 7 to 30-day period.

(15) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (j) exiting the emission control device in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 in appendix A of part 60 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration.

(16) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration.

(17) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the emission control device from the affected source in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration.

(18) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected source in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration.

(19) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream entering each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration. For purposes of calculating the efficiency of the individual carbon adsorber vessel, the value of Qcan be assumed to equal the value of Qmeasured for that carbon adsorber vessel.

(20) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream exiting each individual carbon adsorber vessel (v) in either dry standard cubic meters per hour when EPA Method 18 is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration or in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis) when EPA Method 25A is used to measure HAP or VOC concentration.

(21) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (i) entering the total enclosure through a forced makeup air duct in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis).

(22) Q= the volumetric flow rate of each gas stream (j) exiting the total enclosure through an exhaust duct or hood in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis).

(23) R = the overall HAP or VOC emission reduction achieved for the duration of the emission test (expressed as a percentage).

(24) RS= the total mass in kilograms of HAP or VOC retained in the coating after drying.

(25) W= the weight fraction of VOC in each batch of coating (i) applied, or of each coating applied at an affected coating operation during a 7- to 30-day period, as appropriate, as determined by EPA Method 24 or formulation data. This value shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or if ingredients are added after the weight fraction of HAP or VOC in the coating has been determined, appropriate adjustments shall be made to account for them.
