
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.744 Standards: Cleaning operations.
####### Hand-wipe cleaning.

(b)Each owner or operator of a new or existing hand-wipe cleaning operation (excluding cleaning of spray gun equipment performed in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section) subject to this subpart shall use cleaning solvents that meet one of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section. Cleaning solvent solutions that contain HAP and VOC below the de minimis levels specified in ยง 63.741(f) are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section.

(1) Meet one of the composition requirements in Table 1 of this section;

(2) Have a composite vapor pressure of 45 mm Hg (24.1 in. HO) or less at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F); or

(3) Demonstrate that the volume of hand-wipe solvents used in cleaning operations has been reduced by at least 60% from a baseline adjusted for production. The baseline shall be established as part of an approved alternative plan administered by the State. Demonstrate that the volume of hand-wipe cleaning solvents used in cleaning operations has been reduced by at least 60 percent from a baseline adjusted for production. The baseline shall be calculated using data from 1996 and 1997, or as otherwise agreed upon by the Administrator or delegated State Authority. The baseline shall be approved by the Administrator or delegated State Authority and shall be included as part of the facility's title V or part 70 permit.
