
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.744 Standards: Cleaning operations.
####### Spray gun cleaning.

(c)Each owner or operator of a new or existing spray gun cleaning operation subject to this subpart in which spray guns are used for the application of coatings or any other materials that require the spray guns to be cleaned shall use one or more of the techniques, or their equivalent, specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. Spray gun cleaning operations using cleaning solvent solutions that contain HAP and VOC below the de minimis levels specified in ยง 63.741(f) are exempt from the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.

(1)(i) Enclosed system. Clean the spray gun in an enclosed system that is closed at all times except when inserting or removing the spray gun. Cleaning shall consist of forcing solvent through the gun.

(ii) If leaks are found during the monthly inspection required in ยง 63.751(a), repairs shall be made as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 days after the leak was found. If the leak is not repaired by the 15th day after detection, the cleaning solvent shall be removed, and the enclosed cleaner shall be shut down until the leak is repaired or its use is permanently discontinued.
