
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.744 Standards: Cleaning operations.
####### Housekeeping measures

(a). Each owner or operator of a new or existing cleaning operation subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section unless the cleaning solvent used is identified in Table 1 of this section or meets the definition of "Non-HAP material" in 63.742. The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section do not apply to spent cleaning solvents, and solvent-laden applicators that are subject to and handled and stored in compliance with 40 CFR parts 262 through 268 (including the air emission control requirements in 40 CFR part 265, subpart CC).

(1) Unless the owner or operator satisfies the requirements in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, place used solvent-laden cloth, paper, or any other absorbent applicators used for cleaning in bags or other closed containers. Ensure that these bags and containers are kept closed at all times except when depositing or removing these materials from the container. Use bags and containers of such design so as to contain the vapors of the cleaning solvent. Cotton-tipped swabs used for very small cleaning operations are exempt from this requirement.

(2) Unless the owner or operator satisfies the requirements in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, store fresh and spent cleaning solvents, except semi-aqueous solvent cleaners, used in aerospace cleaning operations in closed containers.

(3) Conduct the handling and transfer of cleaning solvents to or from enclosed systems, vats, waste containers, and other cleaning operation equipment that hold or store fresh or spent cleaning solvents in such a manner that minimizes spills.

(4) Demonstrate to the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) that equivalent or better alternative measures are in place compared to the use of closed containers for the solvent-laden materials described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, or the storage of solvents described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
