
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.743 Standards: General.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(4) through (a)(10) of this section and in Table 1 of this subpart, each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart is also subject to the following sections of subpart A of this part:

(1) § 63.4, Prohibited activities and circumvention;

(2) § 63.5, Preconstruction review and notification requirements; and

(3) § 63.6, Compliance with standards and maintenance requirements.

(4) For the purposes of this subpart, all affected sources shall submit any request for an extension of compliance not later than 120 days before the affected source's compliance date. The extension request should be requested for the shortest time necessary to attain compliance, but in no case shall exceed 1 year.

(5)(i) For the purposes of this subpart, the Administrator (or the State with an approved permit program) will notify the owner or operator in writing of his/her intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance submitted under either § 63.6(i)(4) or § 63.6(i)(5) within 60 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate the request.

(ii) In addition, for purposes of this subpart, if the Administrator does not notify the owner or operator in writing of his/her intention to deny approval within 60 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate a request for an extension of compliance, then the request shall be considered approved.

(6)(i) For the purposes of this subpart, the Administrator (or the State) will notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application submitted under § 63.6(i)(4)(ii) (that is, whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination) within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted, rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in § 63.6(i)(13)(i).

(ii) In addition, for the purposes of this subpart, if the Administrator does not notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted, then the information in the application or the supplementary information is to be considered sufficient upon which to make a determination.

(7) For the purposes of this subpart, each owner or operator who has submitted an extension request application under § 63.6(i)(5) is to be provided 30 calendar days to present additional information or arguments to the Administrator after he/she is notified that the application is not complete, rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in § 63.6(i)(13)(ii).

(8) For the purposes of this subpart, each owner or operator is to be provided 30 calendar days to present additional information to the Administrator after he/she is notified of the intended denial of a compliance extension request submitted under either § 63.6(i)(4) or § 63.6(i)(5), rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in § 63.6(i)(12)(iii)(B) and § 63.6(i)(13)(iii)(B).

(9) For the purposes of this subpart, a final determination to deny any request for an extension submitted under either § 63.6(i)(4) or § 63.6(i)(5) will be made within 60 calendar days after presentation of additional information or argument (if the application is complete), or within 60 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made, rather than 30 calendar days as provided for in § 63.6(i)(12)(iv) and § 63.6(i)(13)(iv).

(10) For the purposes of compliance with the requirements of § 63.5(b)(4) of the General Provisions and this subpart, owners or operators of existing primer, topcoat, or specialty coating application operations and depainting operations who construct or reconstruct a spray booth or hangar that does not have the potential to emit 10 tons/yr or more of an individual inorganic HAP or 25 tons/yr or more of all inorganic HAP combined shall only be required to notify the Administrator of such construction or reconstruction on an annual basis. Notification shall be submitted on or before March 1 of each year and shall include the information required in § 63.5(b)(4) for each such spray booth or hangar constructed or reconstructed during the prior calendar year, except that such information shall be limited to inorganic HAP. No advance notification or written approval from the Administrator pursuant to § 63.5(b)(3) shall be required for the construction or reconstruction of such a spray booth or hangar unless the booth or hangar has the potential to emit 10 tons/yr or more of an individual inorganic HAP or 25 tons/yr or more of all inorganic HAP combined.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) An owner or operator who uses an air pollution control device or equipment not listed in this subpart shall submit a description of the device or equipment, test data verifying the performance of the device or equipment in controlling organic HAP and/or VOC emissions, as appropriate, and specific operating parameters that will be monitored to establish compliance with the standards to the Administrator for approval not later than 120 days prior to the compliance date.

(d) Instead of complying with the individual coating limits in §§ 63.745 and 63.747, a facility may choose to comply with the averaging provisions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(6) of this section.

(1) Each owner or operator of a new or existing source shall use any combination of primers, topcoats (including self-priming topcoats), specialty coatings, Type I chemical milling maskants, or Type II chemical milling maskants such that the monthly volume-weighted average organic HAP and VOC contents of the combination of primers, topcoats, specialty coatings, Type I chemical milling maskants, or Type II chemical milling maskants, as determined in accordance with the applicable procedures set forth in § 63.750, complies with the specified content limits in §§ 63.745(c) and 63.747(c), unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter averaging period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(2) Averaging is allowed only for uncontrolled primers, topcoats (including self-priming topcoats), specialty coatings, Type I chemical milling maskants, or Type II chemical milling maskants.

(3) Averaging is not allowed between specialty coating types defined in appendix A to this subpart, or between the different types of coatings specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Primers and topcoats (including self-priming topcoats).

(ii) Type I and Type II chemical milling maskants.

(iii) Primers and chemical milling maskants.

(iv) Topcoats and chemical milling maskants.

(v) Primers and specialty coatings.

(vi) Topcoats and specialty coatings.

(vii) Chemical milling maskants and specialty coatings.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) Each averaging scheme shall be approved in advance by the permitting agency and adopted as part of the facility's title V permit.

(e) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
