
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart O - Cooperative Agreements and Superfund State Contracts for Superfund Response Actions
###### Procurement Requirements Under a Cooperative Agreement
####### ยง 35.6565 Procurement methods.
######## Competitive proposals.

(c)The technique of competitive proposals is normally conducted with more than one source submitting an offer, and either a fixed-price or cost-reimbursement type contract is awarded. It is generally used when conditions are not appropriate for the use of sealed bids. If the recipient uses the competitive proposal method, the following requirements apply:

(1) Recipients must publicize requests for proposals and all evaluation factors and must identify their relative importance. The recipient must honor any response to publicized requests for proposals to the maximum extent practical;

(2) Recipients must solicit proposals from an adequate number of qualified sources;

(3) Recipients must have a method for conducting technical evaluations of the proposals received and for selecting awardees;

(4) Recipients must award the contract to the responsible firm whose proposal is most advantageous to the program, with price and other factors considered; and

(5) Recipients may use competitive proposal procedures for qualifications-based procurement of architectural/engineering (A/E) professional services whereby competitor's qualifications are evaluated and the most qualified competitor is selected, subject to negotiation of fair and reasonable compensation. This method, where price is not used as a selection factor, may only be used in the procurement of A/E professional services. The recipient may not use this method to purchase other types of services even though A/E firms are a potential source to perform the proposed effort.
