
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.746 Standards: Depainting operations.
####### HAP emissions-non-HAP chemical strippers and technologies.

(b)(1)Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(3) of this section, each owner or operator of a new or existing aerospace depainting operation subject to this subpart shall emit no organic HAP from chemical stripping formulations and agents or chemical paint softeners.

(2) Where non-chemical based equipment is used to comply with paragraph (b)(1) of this section, either in total or in part, each owner or operator shall operate and maintain the equipment according to the manufacturer's specifications or locally prepared operating procedures. During periods of malfunctions of such equipment, each owner or operator may use substitute materials during the repair period provided the substitute materials used are those available that minimize organic HAP emissions. In no event shall substitute materials be used for more than 15 days annually, unless such materials are organic HAP-free.

(3) Each owner or operator of a new or existing depainting operation shall not, on an annual average basis, use more than 26 gallons of organic HAP-containing chemical strippers or alternatively 190 pounds of organic HAP per commercial aircraft depainted; or more than 50 gallons of organic HAP-containing chemical strippers or alternatively 365 pounds of organic HAP per military aircraft depainted for spot stripping and decal removal.

(4) Each owner or operator of a new or existing depainting operation complying with paragraph (b)(2), that generates airborne inorganic HAP emissions from dry media blasting equipment, shall also comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(v) of this section.

(i) Perform the depainting operation in an enclosed area, unless a closed-cycle depainting system is used.

(ii)(A) For existing sources, pass any air stream removed from the enclosed area or closed-cycle depainting system through a dry particulate filter system, certified using the method described in § 63.750(o) to meet or exceed the efficiency data points in Tables 2 and 3 of § 63.745, through a baghouse, or through a waterwash system before exhausting it to the atmosphere.

(B) For new sources, pass any air stream removed from the enclosed area or closed-cycle depainting system through a dry particulate filter system certified using the method described in § 63.750(o) to meet or exceed the efficiency data points in Tables 4 and 5 of § 63.745 or through a baghouse before exhausting it to the atmosphere.

(C) Owners or operators of new sources that have commenced construction or reconstruction after June 6, 1994 but prior to October 29, 1996 may comply with the following requirements in lieu of the requirements in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section:
