
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.746 Standards: Depainting operations.
####### 2

() If the coating being removed contains chromium or cadmium, control shall consist of a HEPA filter system, three-stage filter system, or other control system equivalent to the three-stage filter system as approved by the permitting agency.

(iii) If a dry particulate filter system is used, the following requirements shall be met:

(A) Maintain the system in good working order;

(B) Install a differential pressure gauge across the filter banks;

(C) Continuously monitor the pressure drop across the filter, and read and record the pressure drop once per shift; and

(D) Take corrective action when the pressure drop exceeds or falls below the filter manufacturer's recommended limits.

(iv) If a waterwash system is used, continuously monitor the water flow rate, and read and record the water flow rate once per shift.

(v) If the pressure drop, as recorded pursuant to ยง 63.752(e)(7), is outside the limit(s) specified by the filter manufacturer or in locally prepared operating procedures, whichever is more stringent, shut down the operation immediately and take corrective action. If the water path in the waterwash system fails the visual continuity/flow characteristics check, as recorded pursuant to ยง 63.752(e)(7), or the water flow rate, as recorded pursuant to ยง 63.752(d)(2), exceeds the limit(s) specified by the booth manufacturer or in locally prepared operating procedures, or the booth manufacturer's or locally prepared maintenance procedures for the filter or waterwash system have not been performed as scheduled, shut down the operation immediately and take corrective action. The operation shall not be resumed until the pressure drop or water flow rate is returned within the specified limit(s).

(5) Mechanical and hand sanding operations are exempt from the requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
