
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.746 Standards: Depainting operations.
####### Applicability.

(a)Each owner or operator of a new or existing depainting operation subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, and with the requirements specified in paragraph (b) where there are no controls for organic HAP, or paragraph (c) where organic HAP are controlled using a control system. This section does not apply to an aerospace manufacturing or rework facility that depaints six or less completed aerospace vehicles in a calendar year.

(1) The provisions of this section apply to the depainting of the outer surface areas of completed aerospace vehicles, including the fuselage, wings, and vertical and horizontal stabilizers of the aircraft, and the outer casing and stabilizers of missiles and rockets. These provisions do not apply to the depainting of parts or units normally removed from the aerospace vehicle for depainting. However, depainting of wings and stabilizers is always subject to the requirements of this section regardless of whether their removal is considered by the owner or operator to be normal practice for depainting.

(2) Aerospace vehicles or components that are intended for public display, no longer operational, and not easily capable of being moved are exempt from the requirements of this section.

(3) The following depainting operations are exempt from the requirements of this section:

(i) Depainting of radomes; and

(ii) Depainting of parts, subassemblies, and assemblies normally removed from the primary aircraft structure before depainting.
