
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.746 Standards: Depainting operations.
####### Organic HAP emissions-organic HAP-containing chemical strippers.

(c)Each owner or operator of a new or existing organic HAP-containing chemical stripper depainting operation subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements specified in this paragraph.

(1) All organic HAP emissions from the operation shall be reduced by the use of a control system. Each control system that was installed before the effective date shall reduce the operations' organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere by 81 percent or greater, taking into account capture and destruction or removal efficiencies.

(2) Each control system installed on or after the effective date shall reduce organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere by 95 percent or greater. Reduction shall take into account capture and destruction or removal efficiencies, and may take into account the volume of chemical stripper used relative to baseline levels (e.g., the 95 percent efficiency may be achieved by controlling emissions at 81 percent efficiency with a control system and using 74 percent less stripper than in baseline applications). The baseline shall be calculated using data from 1996 and 1997, which shall be on a usage per aircraft or usage per square foot of surface basis.

(3) The capture and destruction or removal efficiencies are to be determined using the procedures in ยง 63.750(g) when a carbon adsorber is used and those in ยง 63.750(h) when a control device other than a carbon adsorber is used.
