
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.749 Compliance dates and determinations.
####### Compliance dates

(a). (1) Each owner or operator of an existing affected source subject to this subpart shall comply with the requirements of this subpart by September 1, 1998, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section. Owners or operators of new affected sources subject to this subpart shall comply on the effective date or upon startup, whichever is later. In addition, each owner or operator shall comply with the compliance dates specified in § 63.6(b) and (c) as indicated in Table 1 to this subpart.

(2) Owners or operators of existing primer, topcoat, or specialty coating application operations and depainting operations who construct or reconstruct a spray booth or hangar must comply with the new source requirements for inorganic HAP specified in §§ 63.745(g)(2)(ii) and 63.746(b)(4) for that new spray booth or hangar upon startup. Such sources must still comply with all other existing source requirements by September 1, 1998.

(3) Each owner or operator of a specialty coating application operation or handling and storage of waste operation that begins construction or reconstruction after February 17, 2015, shall be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart on December 7, 2015, or upon startup, whichever is later. Each owner or operator of a specialty coating application operation or handling and storage of waste operation that is existing on February 17, 2015, shall be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart on or before December 7, 2018.
