
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.749 Compliance dates and determinations.
####### Initial performance tests.

(2)If a control device is used, each owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the overall reduction efficiency specified in § 63.746(c), unless a waiver is obtained under either § 63.7(e)(2)(iv) or § 63.7(h). The initial performance test shall be conducted according to the procedures and test methods specified in §§ 63.7 and 63.750(g) for carbon adsorbers and in § 63.750(h) for control devices other than carbon adsorbers. For carbon adsorbers, the initial performance test shall be used to establish the appropriate rolling material balance period for determining compliance. The procedures in paragraphs (2)(i) through (2)(vi) of this section shall be used in determining initial compliance with the provisions of this subpart for carbon adsorbers.

(i)(A) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual carbon adsorber vessels pursuant to § 63.750(g)(2) or (4), the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all of the individual carbon adsorber vessels.

(B) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel pursuant to § 63.750(g) (3) or (4), each carbon adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each carbon adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.

(ii) EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 is used for sample and velocity traverses.

(iii) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(iv) EPA Method 3 of appendix A of part 60 is used for gas analysis.

(v) EPA Method 4 of appendix A of part 60 is used for stack gas moisture.

(vi) EPA Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3, and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.

(3) An organic HAP-containing chemical stripper depainting operation is considered in compliance when the conditions specified in paragraph (g)(3)(i) of this section are met.

(i) If a carbon adsorber (or other control device) is used, the overall control efficiency of the control system, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g) (or other control device as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(h)), is equal to or greater than 81% for control systems installed before the effective date, or equal to or greater than 95% for control systems installed on or after the effective date, during the initial performance test and all subsequent material balances (or performance tests, as appropriate).

(ii) For non-HAP depainting operations complying with § 63.746(b)(1);

(A) For any spot stripping and decal removal, the value of C, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(j), is less than or equal to 26 gallons of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper or 190 pounds of organic HAP per commercial aircraft depainted calculated on a yearly average; and is less than or equal to 50 gallons of organic HAP-containing chemical stripper or 365 pounds of organic HAP per military aircraft depainted calculated on a yearly average; and

(B) The requirements of § 63.746(b)(2) are carried out during malfunctions of non-chemical based equipment.
