
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.749 Compliance dates and determinations.
####### Initial performance tests.

(2)If a control device is used, each owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the overall reduction efficiency specified in § 63.747(d), unless a waiver is obtained under either § 63.7(e)(2)(iv) or § 63.7(h). The initial performance test shall be conducted according to the procedures and test methods specified in § 63.7 and § 63.750(g) for carbon adsorbers and in § 63.750(h) for control devices other than carbon adsorbers. For carbon adsorbers, the initial performance test shall be used to establish the appropriate rolling material balance period for determining compliance. The procedures in paragraphs (h)(2) (i) through (vi) of this section shall be used in determining initial compliance with the provisions of this subpart for carbon adsorbers.

(i)(A) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual carbon adsorber vessels pursuant to § 63.750(g) (2) or (4), the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all of the individual carbon adsorber vessels.

(B) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel pursuant to § 63.750(g) (3) or (4), each carbon adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each carbon adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.

(ii) EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 is used for sample and velocity traverses.

(iii) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(iv) EPA Method 3 of appendix A of part 60 is used for gas analysis.

(v) EPA Method 4 of appendix A of part 60 is used for stack gas moisture.

(vi) EPA Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3, and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.

(3) The chemical milling maskant application operation is considered in compliance when the conditions specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section are met. The compliance demonstration for a chemical milling maskant may be based on the organic HAP content or the VOC content of the chemical milling maskant; demonstrating compliance with both the HAP content limit and the VOC content limit is not required. If a chemical milling maskant contains HAP solvents that are exempt from the definition of VOC in § 63.741 and 40 CFR 51.100, then the HAP content must be used to demonstrate compliance.

(i) For all uncontrolled chemical milling maskants, all values of Hand H(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750 (k) and (l)) are less than or equal to 622 grams of organic HAP per liter (5.2 lb/gal) of Type I chemical milling maskant as applied (less water), and 160 grams of organic HAP per liter (1.3 lb/gal) of Type II chemical milling maskant as applied (less water). All values of Gand G(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750 (m) and (n)) are less than or equal to 622 grams of VOC per liter (5.2 lb/gal) of Type I chemical milling maskant as applied (less water and exempt solvents), and 160 grams of VOC per liter (1.3 lb/gal) of Type II chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied.

(ii) If a carbon adsorber (or other control device) is used, the overall control efficiency of the control system, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g) (or systems with other control devices as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(h)), is equal to or greater than 81% during the initial performance test period and all subsequent material balances (or performance tests, as appropriate).
