
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.749 Compliance dates and determinations.
####### Initial performance tests.

(2)If a control device is used, each owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance with the overall reduction efficiency specified in paragraph § 63.745, unless a waiver is obtained under either § 63.7(e)(2)(iv) or § 63.7(h). The initial performance test shall be conducted according to the procedures and test methods specified in §§ 63.7 and 63.750(g) for carbon adsorbers and in § 63.750(h) for control devices other than carbon adsorbers. For carbon adsorbers, the initial performance test shall be used to establish the appropriate rolling material balance period for determining compliance. The procedures in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(vi) of this section shall be used in determining initial compliance with the provisions of this subpart for carbon adsorbers.

(i)(A) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual carbon adsorber vessels pursuant to § 63.750(g) (2) or (4), the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all of the individual carbon adsorber vessels.

(B) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel pursuant to § 63.750(g) (3) or (4), each carbon adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each carbon adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.

(ii) EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 is used for sample and velocity traverses.

(iii) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(iv) EPA Method 3 of appendix A of part 60 is used for gas analysis.

(v) EPA Method 4 of appendix A of part 60 is used for stack gas moisture.

(vi) EPA Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3, and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.

(3) The primer application operation is considered in compliance when the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(iv) of this section, as applicable, and in paragraph (e) of this section are met. Failure to meet any one of the conditions identified in these paragraphs shall constitute noncompliance. The compliance demonstration for a primer may be based on the organic HAP content or the VOC content of the primer; demonstrating compliance with both the HAP content limit and the VOC content limit is not required. If a primer contains HAP solvents that are exempt from the definition of VOC in § 63.741 and 40 CFR 51.100, then the HAP content must be used to demonstrate compliance.

(i) For all uncontrolled primers, all values of Hand H(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(c) and (d)) are less than or equal to the applicable HAP content limit in § 63.745(c)(1), and all values of Gand G(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(e) and (f)) are less than or equal to the applicable VOC content limit in § 63.745(c)(2).

(ii) If a control device is used:

(A) The overall control system efficiency, E, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g) for control systems containing carbon adsorbers and in § 63.750(h) for control systems with other control devices, is equal to or greater than 81% during the initial performance test and any subsequent performance test;

(B) If an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the average combustion temperature for all 3-hour periods is greater than or equal to the average combustion temperature established under § 63.751(b)(11); and

(C) If a catalytic incinerator is used, the average combustion temperatures for all 3-hour periods are greater than or equal to the average combustion temperatures established under § 63.751(b)(12).

(iii)(A) Uses an application technique specified in § 63.745 (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(viii), or

(B) Uses an alternative application technique, as allowed under § 63.745(f)(1)(ix), such that the emissions of both organic HAP and VOC for the implementation period of the alternative application method are less than or equal to the emissions generated using HVLP or electrostatic spray application methods as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(i).

(iv) Operates all application techniques in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications or locally prepared operating procedures, whichever is more stringent.

(4) The topcoat or specialty coating application operation is considered in compliance when the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (d)(4)(iv) of this section, as applicable, and in paragraph (e) of this section are met. Failure to meet any of the conditions identified in these paragraphs shall constitute noncompliance.

(i) The topcoat application operation is considered in compliance when the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section are met. The specialty coating application operation is considered in compliance when the conditions specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(B) are met. The compliance demonstration for a topcoat or a specialty coating may be based on the organic HAP content or the VOC content of the coating; demonstrating compliance with both the HAP content limit and the VOC content limit is not required. If a topcoat or specialty coating contains HAP solvents that are exempt from the definition of VOC in § 63.741 and 40 CFR 51.100, then the HAP content must be used to demonstrate compliance.

(A) For all uncontrolled topcoats, all values of Hand H(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(c) and (d)) are less than or equal to the applicable HAP content limit in § 63.745(c)(3), and all values of Gand G(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(e) and (f)) are less than or equal to the applicable VOC content limit in § 63.745(c)(4).

(B) For all uncontrolled specialty coatings, all values of Hand H(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(c) and (d)) are less than or equal to the HAP content limits specified in Table 1 to § 63.745 for the applicable specialty coating types (less water) as applied, and all values of Gand G(as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(e) and (f)) are less than or equal to the VOC content limits specified in Table 1 to § 63.745 for the applicable specialty coating types (less water and exempt solvents) as applied.

(ii) If a control device is used,

(A) The overall control system efficiency, E, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(g) for control systems containing carbon adsorbers and in § 63.750(h) for control systems with other control devices, is equal to or greater than 81% during the initial performance test and any subsequent performance test;

(B) If an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, the average combustion temperature for all 3-hour periods is greater than or equal to the average combustion temperature established under § 63.751(b)(11); and

(C) If a catalytic incinerator is used, the average combustion temperatures for all 3-hour periods are greater than or equal to the average combustion temperatures established under § 63.751(b)(12).

(iii)(A) Uses an application technique specified in § 63.745(f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv); or

(B) Uses an alternative application technique, as allowed under § 63.745(f)(1)(v), such that the emissions of both organic HAP and VOC for the implementation period of the alternative application method are less than or equal to the emissions generated using HVLP spray, electrostatic spray, airless spray, or air-assisted airless spray application methods, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.750(i).

(iv) Operates all application techniques in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications or locally prepared operating procedures.
