
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### 2

() Determine FV by equation 14:

(D) The air passing through all natural draft openings shall flow into the enclosure continuously. If FV is less than or equal to 9,000 meters per hour, the continuous inward flow of air shall be verified by continuous observation using smoke tubes, streamers, tracer gases, or other means approved by the Administrator over the period that the volumetric flow rate tests required to determine FV are carried out. If FV is greater than 9,000 meters per hour, the direction of airflow through the natural draft openings shall be presumed to be inward at all times without verification.

(ii) Determine the control device efficiency using equation 10 or equations 12 and 13, as applicable, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.750(g) (9) through (14).

(iii) Compliance shall be achieved if the installation of a total enclosure is demonstrated and the value of E determined from equation 10 (or the value of Hdetermined from equations 12 and 13, as applicable) is equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiencies required under § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d).

(5) When nonregenerative carbon adsorbers are used to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), the owner or operator may conduct a design evaluation to demonstrate initial compliance in lieu of following the compliance test procedures of paragraphs (g)(1), (2), (3), and (4) of this section. The design evaluation shall consider the vent stream composition, component concentrations, flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature, and shall establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, capacity of the carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and the emission point operating schedule.

(6)(i) To demonstrate initial compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) when hard piping or ductwork is used to direct VOC and HAP emissions from a VOC and HAP source to the control device, each owner or operator shall demonstrate upon inspection that the criteria of paragraph (g)(6)(i)(A) and paragraph (g)(6)(i) (B) or (C) of this section VR/FD are met.

(A) The equipment shall be vented to a control device.

(B) The control device efficiency (E or H, as applicable) determined using equation 10 or equations 12 and 13, respectively, and the test methods and procedures specified in § 63.750(g) (9) through (14), shall be equal to or greater than the overall HAP control efficiency required by § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d).

(C) When a nonregenerative carbon adsorber is used, the ductwork from the affected emission point(s) shall be vented to the control device and the carbon adsorber shall be demonstrated, through the procedures of § 63.750(g) (1), (2), (3), (4), or (5), to meet the requirements of § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d).

(7) Startups and shutdowns are normal operation for this source category. Emissions from these activities are to be included when determining if the standards specified in § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) are being attained.

(8) An owner or operator who uses compliance techniques other than those specified in this subpart shall submit a description of those compliance procedures, subject to the Administrator's approval, in accordance with § 63.7(f) of subpart A.

(9) Either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A of appendix A of part 60, as appropriate to the conditions at the site, shall be used to determine VOC and HAP concentration of air exhaust streams as required by § 63.750(g) (1) through (6). The owner or operator shall submit notice of the intended test method to the Administrator for approval along with the notification of the performance test required under § 63.7(b). Method selection shall be based on consideration of the diversity of organic species present and their total concentration and on consideration of the potential presence of interfering gases. Except as indicated in paragraphs (g)(9) (i) and (ii) of this section, the test shall consist of three separate runs, each lasting a minimum of 30 minutes.

(i) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all the individual carbon adsorber vessels pursuant to paragraph (g) (2) or (4) of this section, the test shall consist of three separate runs, each coinciding with one or more complete sequences through the adsorption cycles of all of the individual carbon adsorber vessels.

(ii) When either EPA Method 18 or EPA Method 25A is to be used in the determination of the efficiency of a fixed-bed carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each carbon adsorber vessel pursuant to § 63.750(g) (3) or (4), each carbon adsorber vessel shall be tested individually. The test for each carbon adsorber vessel shall consist of three separate runs. Each run shall coincide with one or more complete adsorption cycles.

(10) EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 is used for sample and velocity traverses.

(11) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(12) EPA Method 3 of appendix A of part 60 is used for gas analysis.

(13) EPA Method 4 of appendix A of part 60 is used for stack gas moisture.

(14) EPA Methods 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 3, and 4 shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.
