
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### VOC content level determination-averaged primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings

(f). For those uncontrolled primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings that are averaged within their respective coating category in order to comply with the primer, topcoat, and specialty coating VOC content limits specified in ยง 63.745(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(6), the following procedure shall be used to determine the monthly volume-weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of coating (less water and exempt solvents) as applied, unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter averaging period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(1)(i) Determine the VOC content (lb/gal) as applied of each coating. If any ingredients, including diluent solvent, are added to a coating prior to its application, the VOC content of the coating shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients have been added.

(ii) Determine the VOC content of each coating as applied each month, unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(A) If no changes have been made to a coating, either as supplied or as applied, or if a change has been made that has a minimal effect on the VOC content of the coating, the value previously determined may continue to be used until a change in formulation has been made by either the manufacturer or the user.

(B) If a change in formulation or a change in the ingredients added to the coating takes place, including the ratio of coating to diluent solvent, prior to its application, either of which results in a more than minimal effect on the VOC content of the coating, the VOC content of the coating shall be redetermined.

(iii) Determine the VOC content of each primer, topcoat, and specialty coating formulation (less water and exempt solvents) as applied using EPA Method 24 or from manufacturer's data.

(2)(i) Determine the volume both in total gallons as applied and in total gallons (less water and exempt solvents) as applied of each coating. If any ingredients, including diluent solvents, are added prior to its application, the volume of each coating shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any diluent solvent) have been added.

(ii) Determine the volume of each coating (less water and exempt solvents) as applied each day.

(iii) The volume applied may be determined from company records.

(3) Calculate the total volume in gallons (less water and exempt solvents) as applied by summing the individual volumes of each coating (less water and exempt solvents) as applied, which were determined under paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(4) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emitted per unit volume (lb/gal) of coating (less water and exempt solvents) as applied for each coating category during each 30-day period using equation 8:

(5)(i) If the VOC content is found to be different when EPA Method 24 is used during an enforcement inspection from that used by the owner or operator in calculating G, recalculation of Gis required using the new value. If more than one coating is involved, the recalculation shall be made once using all of the new values.

(ii) If recalculation is required, an owner or operator may elect to include in the recalculation of Guncontrolled coatings that were not previously included provided appropriate and sufficient records were maintained for these other coatings to allow daily recalculations.

(iii) The recalculated value of Gunder either paragraph (f)(5)(i) or (f)(5)(ii) of this section shall be used to determine compliance.
