
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### Organic HAP content level determination-averaged primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings.

(d)For those uncontrolled primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings that are averaged together in order to comply with the primer, topcoat, and specialty coating organic HAP content limits specified in ยง 63.745(c), the following procedure shall be used to determine the monthly volume-weighted average mass of organic HAP emitted per volume of coating (less water) as applied, unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter averaging period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(1)(i) Determine the total organic HAP weight fraction as applied of each coating. If any ingredients, including diluent solvent, are added to a coating prior to its application, the organic HAP weight fraction of the coating shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients have been added.

(ii) Determine the total organic HAP weight fraction of each coating as applied each month.

(A) If no changes have been made to a coating, either as supplied or as applied, or if a change has been made that has a minimal effect on the organic HAP content of the coating, the value previously determined may continue to be used until a change in formulation has been made by either the manufacturer or the user.

(B) If a change in formulation or a change in the ingredients added to the coating takes place, including the ratio of coating to diluent solvent, prior to its application, either of which results in a more than minimal effect on the organic HAP content of the coating, the total organic HAP weight fraction of the coating shall be redetermined.

(iii) Manufacturer's formulation data may be used to determine the total organic HAP content of each coating and any ingredients added to the coating prior to its application. If the total organic HAP content cannot be determined using the manufacturer's data, the owner or operator shall use Method 311 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A for determining the total organic HAP weight fraction, or shall submit an alternative procedure for determining the total organic HAP weight fraction for approval by the Administrator. If there is a discrepancy between the manufacturer's formulation data and the results of the Method 311 analysis, compliance shall be based on the results from the Method 311 analysis.

(2)(i) Determine the volume both in total gallons as applied and in total gallons (less water) as applied of each coating. If any ingredients, including diluent solvents, are added prior to its application, the volume of each coating shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any diluent solvent) have been added.

(ii) Determine the volume of each coating (less water) as applied each month, unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(iii) The volume applied may be determined from company records.

(3)(i) Determine the density of each coating as applied. If any ingredients, including diluent solvent, are added to a coating prior to its application, the density of the coating shall be determined at a time and location in the process after all ingredients have been added.

(ii) Determine the density of each coating as applied each month, unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(A) If no changes have been made to a coating, either as supplied or as applied, or if a change has been made that has a minimal effect on the density of the coating, then the value previously determined may continue to be used until a change in formulation has been made by either the manufacturer or the user.

(B) If a change in formulation or a change in the ingredients added to the coating takes place, including the ratio of coating to diluent solvent, prior to its application, either of which results in a more than minimal effect on the density of the coating, then the density of the coating shall be redetermined.

(iii) The density may be determined from company records, including manufacturer's data sheets. If the density of the coating cannot be determined using the company's records, including the manufacturer's data, then the owner or operator shall submit an alternative procedure for determining the density for approval by the Administrator.

(4) Calculate the total volume in gallons as applied (less water) by summing the individual volumes of each coating (less water) as applied, which were determined under paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(5) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of organic HAP in coatings emitted per unit volume (lb/gal) of coating (less water) as applied during each 30-day period using equation 4:
