
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### VOC content level determination-compliant primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings.

(e)For those uncontrolled primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings complying with the primer, topcoat, and specialty coating VOC content levels specified in ยง 63.745(c) without being averaged, the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine the mass of VOC emitted per volume of coating (less water and exempt solvents) as applied. As an alternative to the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, an owner or operator may use coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate that VOC emitted per volume of coating (less water and exempt solvents), as applied, is less than or equal to the applicable VOC limit specified in ยง 63.745(c).

(1) Determine the VOC content of each formulation (less water and exempt solvents) as applied using manufacturer's supplied data or Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to determine the VOC content. The VOC content shall be used as a surrogate for total HAP content for coatings that contain no exempt solvent. If there is a discrepancy between the manufacturer's formulation data and the results of the Method 24 analysis, compliance shall be based on the results from the Method 24 analysis.

When Method 24 is used to determine the VOC content of water-reducible coatings, the precision adjustment factors in Reference Method 24 shall be used. If the adjusted analytical VOC content is less than the formulation solvent content, then the analytical VOC content should be set equal to the formulation solvent content.

(2) For each coating applied, calculate the mass of VOC emitted per volume of coating (lb/gal) (less water and exempt solvents) as applied using equations 5, 6, and 7:

(3)(i) If the VOC content is found to be different when EPA Method 24 is used during an enforcement inspection from that used by the owner or operator in calculating G, compliance shall be based, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, upon the VOC content obtained using EPA Method 24.

(ii) If the VOC content of a coating obtained using Method 24 would indicate noncompliance as determined under either ยง 63.749 (d)(3)(i) or (d)(4)(i), an owner or operator may elect to average the coating with other uncontrolled coatings and (re)calculate G(using the procedure specified in paragraph (f) of this section), provided appropriate and sufficient records were maintained for all coatings included in the average (re)calculation. The (re)calculated value of G(Gin paragraph (f)) for the averaged coatings shall then be used to determine compliance.
