
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### Organic HAP content level determination-compliant primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings.

(c)For those uncontrolled primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings complying with the primer, topcoat, or specialty coating organic HAP content limits specified in ยง 63.745(c) without being averaged, the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section shall be used to determine the mass of organic HAP emitted per volume of coating (less water) as applied. As an alternative to the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, an owner or operator may use the coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate that organic HAP emitted per volume of coating (less water), as applied, is less than or equal to the applicable organic HAP limit specified in ยง 63.745(c). Owners and operators that use the coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate compliance based on the HAP content of the coating may add non-HAP solvent to those coatings provided that the owner or operator also maintains records of the non-HAP solvent added to the coating.

(1) For coatings that contain no exempt solvents, determine the total organic HAP content using manufacturer's supplied data or Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to determine the VOC content. The VOC content shall be used as a surrogate for total HAP content for coatings that contain no exempt solvent. If there is a discrepancy between the manufacturer's formulation data and the results of the Method 24 analysis, compliance shall be based on the results from the Method 24 analysis.

When Method 24 is used to determine the VOC content of water-reducible coatings, the precision adjustment factors in Reference Method 24 shall be used. If the adjusted analytical VOC content is less than the formulation solvent content, then the analytical VOC content should be set equal to the formulation solvent content.

(2) For each coating formulation as applied, determine the organic HAP weight fraction, water weight fraction (if applicable), and density from manufacturer's data. If the value for organic HAP weight fraction cannot be determined using the manufacturer's data, the owner or operator shall use Method 311 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, or submit an alternative procedure for determining the value for approval by the Administrator. If the values for water weight fraction (if applicable) and density cannot be determined using the manufacturer's data, the owner or operator shall submit an alternative procedure for determining their values for approval by the Administrator. Recalculation is required only when a change occurs in the coating formulation. If there is a discrepancy between the manufacturer's formulation data and the results of the Method 311 analysis, compliance shall be based on the results from the Method 311 analysis.

(3) For each coating as applied, calculate the mass of organic HAP emitted per volume of coating (lb/gal) less water as applied using equations 1, 2, and 3:
