
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### VOC content level determination-compliant chemical milling maskants.

(m)For those uncontrolled chemical milling maskants complying with the chemical milling maskant VOC content limit specified in ยง 63.747(c)(2) without being averaged, the procedure specified in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section shall be used to determine the mass of VOC emitted per volume of chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied. As an alternative to the procedures in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section, an owner or operator may use coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate that VOC emitted per volume of coating (less water and exempt solvents), as applied, is less than or equal to the applicable VOC limit specified in ยง 63.747(c).

(1) Determine the mass of VOC emitted per unit volume of chemical milling maskant (lb/gal) (less water and exempt solvents) as applied, G, for each chemical milling maskant using the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(2)(i) If the VOC content is found to be different when EPA Method 24 is used during an enforcement inspection from that used by the owner or operator in calculating G, compliance shall be based, except as provided in paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section, upon the VOC content obtained using EPA Method 24.

(ii) If the VOC content of a chemical milling maskant obtained using EPA Method 24 would indicate noncompliance as determined under ยง 63.749(h)(3)(i), an owner or operator may elect to average the chemical milling maskant with other uncontrolled chemical milling maskants and (re)calculate G(using the procedure specified in paragraph (n) of this section), provided appropriate and sufficient records were maintained for all chemical milling maskants included in the average recalculation. The (re)calculated value of Gfor the averaged chemical milling maskants shall then be used to determine compliance.
