
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### Overall VOC and/or organic HAP control efficiency-control devices other than carbon adsorbers.

(h)Calculate the overall control efficiency of a control system with a control device other than a carbon adsorber using the following procedure.

(1) Calculate the overall control efficiency using equation 15:

(2) The organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency Rof a control device other than a carbon adsorber shall be determined using the procedures described below. The destruction efficiency may be measured as either total organic HAP or as TOC minus methane and ethane according to these procedures.

(i) Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, to select the sampling sites.

(ii) Determine the gas volumetric flow rate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(iii) Use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to measure either TOC minus methane and ethane or total organic HAP. Alternatively, any other method or data that have been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of this part may be used.

(iv) Use the following procedure to calculate the destruction or removal efficiency:

(A) The destruction or removal efficiency test shall consist of three runs. The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time such as 15-minute intervals during the run.

(B) Calculate the mass rate of either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total organic HAP (E, Eusing equations 16 and 17:
