
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### Alternative application method-primers, topcoats, and specialty coatings.

(i)(1)(i) Each owner or operator seeking to use an alternative application method (as allowed in ยง 63.745(f)(1)(v)) in complying with the standards for primers and topcoats shall use the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) and (ii) or (i)(2)(iii) of this section to determine the organic HAP and VOC emission levels of the alternative application technique as compared to either HVLP, electrostatic spray application methods, air-assisted airless application methods, or airless application methods.

(ii) For specialty coatings, an owner or operator may use any other coating application method capable of achieving emission reductions or a transfer efficiency equivalent to or better than that provided by HVLP, electrostatic spray, air-assisted airless, or airless application. Any owner or operator using an application method pursuant to this paragraph (i)(2)(ii) shall maintain records demonstrating the transfer efficiency achieved.

(2)(i) For the process or processes for which the alternative application method is to be used, the total organic HAP and VOC emissions shall be determined for an initial 30-day period, the period of time required to apply coating to five completely assembled aircraft, or a time period approved by the permitting agency. During this initial period, only HVLP, electrostatic spray application methods, air-assisted airless application methods, or airless application methods shall be used. The emissions shall be determined based on the volumes, organic HAP contents (less water), and VOC contents (less water and exempt solvents) of the coatings as applied.

(ii) Upon implementation of the alternative application method, use the alternative application method in production on actual production parts or assemblies for a period of time sufficient to coat an equivalent amount of parts and assemblies with coatings identical to those used in the initial 30-day period. The actual organic HAP and VOC emissions shall be calculated for this post-implementation period.

(iii) Test the proposed application method against either HVLP, electrostatic spray application methods, air-assisted airless application methods, or airless application methods in a laboratory or pilot production area, using parts and coatings representative of the process(es) where the alternative method is to be used. The laboratory test will use the same part configuration(s) and the same number of parts for both the proposed method and the HVLP, electrostatic spray application methods, air-assisted airless application methods, or airless application methods.

(iv) Whenever the approach in either paragraph (i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii) of this section is used, the owner or operator shall calculate both the organic HAP and VOC emission reduction using equation:

(3) Each owner or operator seeking to demonstrate that an alternative application method achieves emission reductions equivalent to HVLP, electrostatic spray application methods, air-assisted airless application methods, or airless application methods shall comply with the following:

(i) Each coating shall be applied such that the dried film thickness is within the range specified by the applicable specification(s) for the aerospace vehicle or component being coated.

(ii) If no such dried film thickness specification(s) exists, the owner or operator shall ensure that the dried film thickness applied during the initial 30-day period is equivalent to the dried film thickness applied during the alternative application method test period for similar aerospace vehicles or components.

(iii) Failure to comply with these dried film thickness requirements shall invalidate the test results obtained under paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section.
