
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### Organic HAP content level determination-compliant chemical milling maskants.

(k)For those uncontrolled chemical milling maskants complying with the chemical milling maskant organic HAP content limit specified in ยง 63.747(c)(1) without being averaged, the procedure in paragraph (k)(1) of this section shall be used to determine the mass of organic HAP emitted per unit volume of coating (chemical milling maskant) i as applied (less water), H(lb/gal). As an alternative to the procedures in paragraph (k)(1) of this section, an owner or operator may use coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate that organic HAP emitted per volume of coating (less water), as applied, is less than or equal to the applicable organic HAP limit specified in ยง 63.747(c). Owners and operators that use the coating manufacturer's supplied data to demonstrate compliance based on the HAP content of the coating may add non-HAP solvent to those coatings provided that the owner or operator also maintains records of the non-HAP solvent added to the coating.

(1) For coatings that contain no exempt solvents, determine the total organic HAP content using manufacturer's supplied data or Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to determine the VOC content. The VOC content shall be used as a surrogate for total HAP content for coatings that contain no exempt solvent. If there is a discrepancy between the manufacturer's formulation data and the results of the Method 24 analysis, compliance shall be based on the results from the Method 24 analysis.

When Method 24 is used to determine the VOC content of water-reducible coatings, the precision adjustment factors in Reference Method 24 shall be used. If the adjusted analytical VOC content is less than the formulation solvent content, then the analytical VOC content should be set equal to the formulation solvent content.

(2) [Reserved]
