
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.750 Test methods and procedures.
####### VOC content level determination-averaged chemical milling maskants.

(n)For those uncontrolled chemical milling maskants that are averaged together in order to comply with the chemical milling maskant VOC content limit specified in ยง 63.747(c)(2), the procedure specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (n)(4) of this section shall be used to determine the monthly volume-weighted average mass of VOC emitted per volume of chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied, unless the permitting agency specifies a shorter averaging period as part of an ambient ozone control program.

(1) Determine the VOC content of each chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied used during each 30-day period using the procedure specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(2)(i) Determine the individual volume of each chemical milling maskant applied in terms of total gallons (less water and exempt solvents) using the procedure specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, and

(ii) Calculate the total volume in gallons of all chemical milling maskants (less water and exempt solvents) as applied by summing the individual volumes of each chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied.

(3) Calculate the volume-weighted average mass of VOC emitted per unit volume (lb/gal) of chemical milling maskant (less water and exempt solvents) as applied during each 30-day period using equation 23:

(4)(i) If the VOC content is found to be different when EPA Method 24 is used during an enforcement inspection from that used by the owner or operator in calculating G, recalculation of Gis required using the new value. If more than one chemical milling maskant is involved, the recalculation shall be made once using all of the new values.

(ii) If recalculation is required, an owner or operator may elect to include in the recalculation of Guncontrolled chemical milling maskants that were not previously included provided appropriate and sufficient records were maintained for these other chemical milling maskants to allow daily recalculations.

(iii) The recalculated value of Gunder either paragraph (n)(4)(i) or (n)(4)(ii) of this section shall be used to determine compliance.
