
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.751 Monitoring requirements.
####### Incinerators and carbon adsorbers-initial compliance demonstrations.

(b)Each owner or operator subject to the requirements in this subpart must demonstrate initial compliance with the requirements of §§ 63.745(d), 63.746(c), and 63.747(d) of this subpart. Each owner or operator using a carbon adsorber to comply with the requirements in this subpart shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section. Each owner or operator using an incinerator to comply with the requirements in this subpart shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(8) through (12) of this section.

(1) Except as allowed by paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(5) of this section, for each control device used to control organic HAP or VOC emissions, the owner or operator shall fulfill the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall establish as a site-specific operating parameter the outlet total HAP or VOC concentration that demonstrates compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) as appropriate; or

(ii) The owner or operator shall establish as the site-specific operating parameter the control device efficiency that demonstrates compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d).

(iii) When a nonregenerative carbon adsorber is used to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), the site-specific operating parameter value may be established as part of the design evaluation used to demonstrate initial compliance. Otherwise, the site-specific operating parameter value shall be established during the initial performance test conducted according to the procedures of § 63.750(g).

(2) For each nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of meeting the requirements of § 63.751(b)(1), the owner or operator may establish as the site-specific operating parameter the carbon replacement time interval, as determined by the maximum design flow rate and organic concentration in the gas stream vented to the carbon adsorption system. The carbon replacement time interval shall be established either as part of the design evaluation to demonstrate initial compliance or during the initial performance test conducted according to the procedures in § 63.750(g) (1), (2), (3), or (4).

(3) Each owner or operator venting solvent HAP emissions from a source through a room, enclosure, or hood, to a control device to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) shall:

(i) Submit to the Administrator with the compliance status report required by § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions a plan that:

(A) Identifies the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during the initial compliance test is maintained;

(B) Discusses why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance; and

(C) Identifies the specific monitoring procedures;

(ii) Set the operating parameter value, or range of values, that demonstrate compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), as appropriate; and

(iii) Conduct monitoring in accordance with the plan submitted to the Administrator unless comments received from the Administrator require an alternate monitoring scheme.

(4) Owners or operators subject to § 63.751(b) (1), (2), or (3) shall calculate the site-specific operating parameter value, or range of values, as the arithmetic average of the maximum and/or minimum operating parameter values, as appropriate, that demonstrate compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) during the multiple test runs required by § 63.750 (g)(2) and (g)(1).

(5) For each solvent recovery device used to comply with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d), in lieu of meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the results of the material balance calculation conducted in accordance with § 63.750(g)(1) may serve as the site-specific operating parameter that demonstrates compliance with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d).
