
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.751 Monitoring requirements.
####### c

() The probe inlet of the monitoring device shall be placed at approximately the center of the carbon adsorber outlet vent. The probe shall be held there for at least 5 minutes during which flow into the carbon adsorber is expected to occur. The maximum reading during that period shall be used as the measurement.

(B) If complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a carbon adsorption system with a common exhaust stack for all of the carbon vessels, the owner or operator shall not operate the control device at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) for three consecutive adsorption cycles.

(C) If complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a carbon adsorption system with individual exhaust stacks for each of the multiple carbon adsorber vessels, the owner or operator shall not operate any carbon adsorber vessel at an average control efficiency less than that required by § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) as calculated daily using a 7 to 30-day rolling average.

(D) If complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a nonregenerative carbon adsorber, in lieu of the requirements of paragraph (b)(6)(iii) (B) or (C) of this section, the owner or operator may monitor the VOC or HAP concentration of the adsorber exhaust daily, at intervals no greater than 20 percent of the design carbon replacement interval, whichever is greater, or at a frequency as determined by the owner or operator and approved by the Administrator.

(iv) Owners or operators complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) through the use of a nonregenerative carbon adsorber and establishing a site-specific operating parameter for the carbon replacement time interval in accordance with paragraph (b)(2) shall replace the carbon in the carbon adsorber system with fresh carbon at the predetermined time interval as determined in the design evaluation.

(v) Owners or operators complying with § 63.745(d), § 63.746(c), or § 63.747(d) by capturing emissions through a room, enclosure, or hood shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the instrumentation necessary to measure continuously the site-specific operating parameter established in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section whenever VOC and HAP from coating and stripper operations are vented through the capture device. The capture device shall not be operated at an average value greater than or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter value established in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section for any 3-hour period.

(7) Owners or operators complying with paragraph (b)(4) or (b)(5) of this section shall calculate the site-specific operating parameter value as the arithmetic average of the minimum operating parameter values that demonstrate compliance with § 63.745(d)and § 63.747(d) during the three test runs required by § 63.750(h)(2)(iv).

(8) All temperature monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications. Every 3 months, facilities shall replace the temperature sensors or have the temperature sensors recalibrated. As an alternative, a facility may use a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) to verify that there has been no change in the destruction efficiency and effluent composition of the incinerator.

(9) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a thermocouple equipped with a continuous recorder shall be installed and continuously operated in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(10) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, thermocouples, each equipped with a continuous recorder, shall be installed and continuously operated in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(11) For each incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator, each owner or operator shall establish during each performance test during which compliance is demonstrated, including the initial performance test, the minimum combustion temperature as a site-specific operating parameter. This minimum combustion temperature shall be the operating parameter value that demonstrates compliance with §§ 63.745(d) and 63.747(d).

(12) For each catalytic incinerator, each owner or operator shall establish during each performance test during which compliance is demonstrated, including the initial performance test, the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the minimum gas temperature difference across the catalyst bed as site-specific operating parameters. These minimum temperatures shall be the operating parameter values that demonstrate compliance with §§ 63.745(d) and 63.747(d).
