
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.752 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Cleaning operation.

(b)Each owner or operator of a new or existing cleaning operation subject to this subpart shall record the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) The name, vapor pressure, and documentation showing the organic HAP constituents of each cleaning solvent used for affected cleaning operations at the facility.

(2) For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that complies with the composition requirements specified in § 63.744(b)(1) or for semi-aqueous cleaning solvents used for flush cleaning operations:

(i) The name of each cleaning solvent used;

(ii) All data and calculations that demonstrate that the cleaning solvent complies with one of the composition requirements; and

(iii) Annual records of the volume of each solvent used, as determined from facility purchase records or usage records.

(3) For each cleaning solvent used in hand-wipe cleaning operations that does not comply with the composition requirements in § 63.744(b)(1), but does comply with the vapor pressure requirement in § 63.744(b)(2):

(i) The name of each cleaning solvent used;

(ii) The composite vapor pressure of each cleaning solvent used;

(iii) All vapor pressure test results, if appropriate, data, and calculations used to determine the composite vapor pressure of each cleaning solvent; and

(iv) The amount (in gallons) of each cleaning solvent used each month at each operation.

(4) For each cleaning solvent used for the exempt hand-wipe cleaning operations specified in § 63.744(e) that does not conform to the vapor pressure or composition requirements of § 63.744(b):

(i) The identity and amount (in gallons) of each cleaning solvent used each month at each operation; and

(ii) A list of the processes set forth in § 63.744(e) to which the cleaning operation applies.

(5) A record of all leaks from enclosed spray gun cleaners identified pursuant to § 63.751(a) that includes for each leak found:

(i) Source identification;

(ii) Date leak was discovered; and

(iii) Date leak was repaired.
