
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### ยง 63.752 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### General.

(1)For all chemical strippers used in the depainting operation:

(i) The name of each chemical stripper; and

(ii) Monthly volumes of each organic HAP containing chemical stripper used or monthly weight of organic HAP-material used for spot stripping and decal removal.

(2) For HAP-containing chemical strippers that are controlled by a carbon adsorber:

(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in ยง 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The length of the rolling material balance period and all data and calculations used for determining this rolling period. The record of the certification of the accuracy of the device that measures the amount of HAP or VOC recovered; or

(ii) For nonregenerative carbon adsorbers, the overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in ยง 63.750(g)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency. The record of the carbon replacement time established as the site-specific operating parameter to demonstrate compliance.

(3) For HAP-containing chemical strippers that are controlled by a control device other than a carbon adsorber:

(i) The overall control efficiency of the control system (as determined using the procedures specified in ยง 63.750(h)) and all test results, data, and calculations used in determining the overall control efficiency;

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) For each type of aircraft depainted at the facility, a listing of the parts, subassemblies, and assemblies normally removed from the aircraft before depainting. Prototype, test model or aircraft that exist in low numbers (i.e., less than 25 aircraft of any one type) are exempt from this requirement.
