
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GG - National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities
###### § 63.753 Reporting requirements.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section, each owner or operator subject to this subpart shall fulfill the requirements contained in § 63.9(a) through (e) and (h) through (j), Notification requirements, and § 63.10(a), (b), (d), and (f), Recordkeeping and reporting requirements, of the General Provisions, 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, and that the initial notification for existing sources required in § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted not later than September 1, 1997, or as specified in § 63.9(b)(2). In addition to the requirements of § 63.9(h), the notification of compliance status shall include:

(i) Information detailing whether the source has operated within the specified ranges of its designated operating parameters.

(ii) For each coating line, where averaging will be used along with the types of quantities of coatings the facility expects to use in the first year of operation. Averaging scheme shall be approved by the Administrator or delegated State authority and shall be included as part of the facility's title V or part 70 permit.

(2) The initial notification for existing sources, required in § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted no later than September 1, 1997, or as specified in § 63.9(b)(2). For the purposes of this subpart, a title V or part 70 permit application may be used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b)(2), provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required by § 63.9(b)(2), and the State to which the permit application has been submitted has an approved operating permit program under part 70 of this chapter and has received delegation of authority from the EPA. Permit applications shall be submitted by the same due dates as those specified for the initial notifications.

(3) For the purposes of this subpart, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or disapproval of the request for an adjustment to a particular time period or postmark deadline submitted under § 63.9(i) within 30 calendar days of receiving sufficient information to evaluate the request, rather than 15 calendar days as provided for in § 63.9(i)(3).

(4) Each owner or operator subject to this subpart is not required to comply with § 63.10(b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(iv), (b)(2)(v), and (d)(5).

(5) If a source fails to meet an applicable standard specified in §§ 63.744 through 63.748, report such events in the semiannual report:

(i) The number of failures to meet an applicable standard.

(ii) For each instance, report the date, time, and duration of each failure.

(iii) For each failure the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
