
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.760 Applicability and designation of affected source.

(a) This subpart applies to the owners and operators of the emission points, specified in paragraph (b) of this section that are located at oil and natural gas production facilities that meet the specified criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and either (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section.

(1) Facilities that are major or area sources of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) as defined in § 63.761. Emissions for major source determination purposes can be estimated using the maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput, as appropriate, calculated in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. As an alternative to calculating the maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput, the owner or operator of a new or existing source may use the facility's design maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput to estimate the maximum potential emissions. Other means to determine the facility's major source status are allowed, provided the information is documented and recorded to the Administrator's satisfaction in accordance with § 63.10(b)(3). A facility that is determined to be an area source, but subsequently increases its emissions or its potential to emit above the major source levels, and becomes a major source, must comply with all provisions of this subpart applicable to a major source starting on the applicable compliance date specified in paragraph (f) of this section. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to preclude a source from limiting its potential to emit through other appropriate mechanisms that may be available through the permitting authority.

(i) If the owner or operator documents, to the Administrator's satisfaction, a decline in annual natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput, as appropriate, each year for the 5 years prior to October 15, 2012, the owner or operator shall calculate the maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput used to determine maximum potential emissions according to the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section. In all other circumstances, the owner or operator shall calculate the maximum throughput used to determine whether a facility is a major source in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) The maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput is the average of the annual natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput for the 3 years prior to October 15, 2012, multiplied by a factor of 1.2.

(B) The maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput is the highest annual natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput over the 5 years prior to October 15, 2012, multiplied by a factor of 1.2.

(ii) The owner or operator shall maintain records of the annual facility natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput each year and upon request submit such records to the Administrator. If the facility annual natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput increases above the maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput calculated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) or (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput must be recalculated using the higher throughput multiplied by a factor of 1.2.

(iii) The owner or operator shall determine the maximum values for other parameters used to calculate emissions as the maximum for the period over which the maximum natural gas or hydrocarbon liquid throughput is determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. Parameters, other than glycol circulation rate, shall be based on either highest measured values or annual average. For estimating maximum potential emissions from glycol dehydration units, the glycol circulation rate used in the calculation shall be the unit's maximum rate under its physical and operational design consistent with the definition of potential to emit in § 63.2.

(2) Facilities that process, upgrade, or store hydrocarbon liquids.

(3) Facilities that process, upgrade, or store natural gas prior to the point at which natural gas enters the natural gas transmission and storage source category or is delivered to a final end user. For the purposes of this subpart, natural gas enters the natural gas transmission and storage source category after the natural gas processing plant, when present. If no natural gas processing plant is present, natural gas enters the natural gas transmission and storage source category after the point of custody transfer.

(b) The affected sources for major sources are listed in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and for area sources in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(1) For major sources, the affected source shall comprise each emission point located at a facility that meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section and listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) Each glycol dehydration unit as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Each large glycol dehydration unit;

(B) Each small glycol dehydration unit for which construction commenced on or before August 23, 2011, is an existing small glycol dehydration unit; and

(C) Each small glycol dehydration unit for which construction commenced after August 23, 2011, is a new small glycol dehydration unit.

(ii) Each storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions;

(iii) The group of all ancillary equipment, except compressors, intended to operate in volatile hazardous air pollutant service (as defined in § 63.761), which are located at natural gas processing plants; and

(iv) Compressors intended to operate in volatile hazardous air pollutant service (as defined in § 63.761), which are located at natural gas processing plants.

(2) For area sources, the affected source includes each triethylene glycol (TEG) dehydration unit located at a facility that meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section.
