
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.760 Applicability and designation of affected source.
####### Exemptions.

(e)The facilities listed in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section are exempt from the requirements of this subpart. Records shall be maintained as required in § 63.10(b)(3).

(1) A facility that exclusively processes, stores, or transfers black oil (as defined in § 63.761) is not subject to the requirements of this subpart. For the purposes of this subpart, a black oil facility that uses natural gas for fuel or generates gas from black oil shall qualify for this exemption.

(2) A major source facility, prior to the point of custody transfer, with a facility-wide actual annual average natural gas throughput less than 18.4 thousand standard cubic meters per day and a facility-wide actual annual average hydrocarbon liquid throughput less than 39,700 liters per day.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected major source shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart by the dates specified in paragraphs (f)(1), (2), and (f)(7) through (9) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected area source shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart by the dates specified in paragraphs (f)(3) through (6) of this section.

(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (f)(7) through (9) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected major source, the construction or reconstruction of which commenced before February 6, 1998, shall achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart no later than June 17, 2002, except as provided for in § 63.6(i). The owner or operator of an area source, the construction or reconstruction of which commenced before February 6, 1998, that increases its emissions of (or its potential to emit) HAP such that the source becomes a major source that is subject to this subpart shall comply with this subpart 3 years after becoming a major source.

(2) Except as specified in paragraphs (f)(7) through (9) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected major source, the construction or reconstruction of which commences on or after February 6, 1998, shall achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart immediately upon initial startup or June 17, 1999, whichever date is later. Area sources, other than production field facilities identified in (f)(9) of this section, the construction or reconstruction of which commences on or after February 6, 1998, that become major sources shall comply with the provisions of this standard immediately upon becoming a major source.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected area source, located in an Urban-1 county, as defined in § 63.761, the construction or reconstruction of which commences before February 6, 1998, shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than the dates specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, except as provided for in § 63.6(i).

(i) If the affected area source is located within any UA plus offset and UC boundary, as defined in § 63.761, the compliance date is January 4, 2010.

(ii) If the affected area source is not located within any UA plus offset and UC boundary, as defined in § 63.761, the compliance date is January 5, 2009.

(4) The owner or operator of an affected area source, located in an Urban-1 county, as defined in § 63.761, the construction or reconstruction of which commences on or after February 6, 1998, shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart immediately upon initial startup or January 3, 2007, whichever date is later.

(5) The owner or operator of an affected area source that is not located in an Urban-1 county, as defined in § 63.761, the construction or reconstruction of which commences before July 8, 2005, shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than the dates specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, except as provided for in § 3.6(i).

(i) If the affected area source is located within any UA plus offset and UC boundary, as defined in § 63.761, the compliance date is January 4, 2010.

(ii) If the affected area source is not located within any UA plus offset and UC boundary, as defined in § 63.761, the compliance date is January 5, 2009.

(6) The owner or operator of an affected area source that is not located in an Urban-1 county, as defined in § 63.761, the construction or reconstruction of which commences on or after July 8, 2005, shall achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart immediately upon initial startup or January 3, 2007, whichever date is later.

(7) Each affected existing small glycol dehydration unit, as defined in § 63.761, located at a major source, that commenced construction before August 23, 2011, must achieve compliance no later than October 15, 2015, except as provided in § 63.6(i).

(8) Each affected new small glycol dehydration unit, as defined in § 63.761, located at a major source, that commenced construction on or after August 23, 2011, must achieve compliance immediately upon initial startup or October 15, 2012, whichever is later.

(9) A production field facility, as defined in § 63.761, constructed on or before August 23, 2011, that was previously determined to be an area source but becomes a major source (as defined in paragraph 3 of the major source definition in § 63.761) on the October 15, 2012 must achieve compliance no later than October 15, 2015, except as provided in § 63.6(i).

(g) The following provides owners or operators of an affected source at a major source with information on overlap of this subpart with other regulations for equipment leaks. The owner or operator of an affected source at a major source shall document that they are complying with other regulations by keeping the records specified in § 63.774(b)(9).

(1) [Reserved]

(2) After the compliance dates specified in paragraph (f) of this section, ancillary equipment and compressors that are subject to this subpart and are also subject to and controlled under the provisions of 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, are only required to comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart V.

(3) After the compliance dates specified in paragraph (f) of this section, ancillary equipment and compressors that are subject to this subpart and are also subject to and controlled under the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, are only required to comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart H.

(h) An owner or operator of an affected source that is a major source or is located at a major source and is subject to the provisions of this subpart is also subject to 40 CFR part 70 or part 71 operating permit requirements. Unless otherwise required by law, the owner or operator of an area source subject to the provisions of this subpart is exempt from the permitting requirements established by 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
