
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.769 Equipment leak standards.

(a) This section applies to equipment subject to this subpart and specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section that is located at a natural gas processing plant and operates in VHAP service equal to or greater than 300 hours per calendar year.

(1) Ancillary equipment, as defined in § 63.761; and

(2) Compressors.

(b) This section does not apply to ancillary equipment and compressors for which the owner or operator is subject to and controlled under the requirements specified in subpart H of this part; or is subject to and controlled under the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart OOOO. Ancillary equipment and compressors subject to and controlled under 40 CFR part 60, subpart OOOO shall submit the periodic reports specified in § 63.775(e).

(c) For each piece of ancillary equipment and each compressor subject to this section located at an existing or new source, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, §§ 61.241 through 61.247, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section, except that for valves subject to § 61.242-7(b) or § 61.243-1, a leak is detected if an instrument reading of 500 ppm or greater is measured. A leak detected from a valve at a source constructed on or before August 23, 2011 shall be repaired in accordance with the schedule in § 61.242-7(d), or by October 15, 2013, whichever is later. A leak detected from a valve at a source constructed after August 23, 2011 shall be repaired in accordance with the schedule in § 61.242-7(d), or by October 15, 2012, whichever is later.

(1) Each pressure relief device in gas/vapor service shall be monitored quarterly and within 5 days after each pressure release to detect leaks, except under the following conditions.

(i) The owner or operator has obtained permission from the Administrator to use an alternative means of emission limitation that achieves a reduction in emissions of VHAP at least equivalent to that achieved by the control required in this subpart.

(ii) The pressure relief device is located in a nonfractionating facility that is monitored only by non-facility personnel, it may be monitored after a pressure release the next time the monitoring personnel are on site, instead of within 5 days. Such a pressure relief device shall not be allowed to operate for more than 30 days after a pressure release without monitoring.

(2) For pressure relief devices, if an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater is measured, a leak is detected.

(3) For pressure relief devices, when a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, unless a delay in repair of equipment is granted under 40 CFR 61.242-10.

(4) Sampling connection systems are exempt from the requirements of 40 CFR 61.242-5.

(5) Pumps in VHAP service, valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service, and pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service that are located at a nonfractionating plant that does not have the design capacity to process 283,000 standard cubic meters per day or more of field gas are exempt from the routine monitoring requirements of 40 CFR 61.242-2(a)(1) and 61.242-7(a), and paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(6) Pumps in VHAP service, valves in gas/vapor and light liquid service, and pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service located within a natural gas processing plant that is located on the Alaskan North Slope are exempt from the routine monitoring requirements of 40 CFR 61.242-2(a)(1) and 61.242-7(a), and paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(7) Reciprocating compressors in wet gas service are exempt from the compressor control requirements of 40 CFR 61.242-3.

(8) Flares, as defined in § 63.761, used to comply with this subpart shall comply with the requirements of § 63.11(b).
