
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.764 General standards.
####### Exemptions.

(e)(1) The owner or operator of an area source is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section if the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section are met, except that the records of the determination of these criteria must be maintained as required in § 63.774(d)(1).

(i) The actual annual average flowrate of natural gas to the glycol dehydration unit is less than 85 thousand standard cubic meters per day, as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.772(b)(1) of this subpart; or

(ii) The actual average emissions of benzene from the glycol dehydration unit process vent to the atmosphere are less than 0.90 megagram per year, as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.772(b)(2) of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c)(3) of this section for ancillary equipment (as defined in § 63.761) and compressors at a natural gas processing plant subject to this subpart if the criteria listed in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section are met, except that the records of the determination of these criteria must be maintained as required in § 63.774(d)(2).

(i) Any ancillary equipment and compressors that contain or contact a fluid (liquid or gas) must have a total VHAP concentration less than 10 percent by weight, as determined by the procedures specified in § 63.772(a); or

(ii) That ancillary equipment and compressors must operate in VHAP service less than 300 hours per calendar year.

(f) Each owner or operator of a major HAP source subject to this subpart is required to apply for a 40 CFR part 70 or part 71 operating permit from the appropriate permitting authority. If the Administrator has approved a State operating permit program under 40 CFR part 70, the permit shall be obtained from the State authority. If a State operating permit program has not been approved, the owner or operator of a source shall apply to the EPA Regional Office pursuant to 40 CFR part 71.

(g)-(h) [Reserved]

(i) In all cases where the provisions of this subpart require an owner or operator to repair leaks by a specified time after the leak is detected, it is a violation of this standard to fail to take action to repair the leak(s) within the specified time. If action is taken to repair the leak(s) within the specified time, failure of that action to successfully repair the leak(s) is not a violation of this standard. However, if the repairs are unsuccessful, and a leak is detected, the owner or operator shall take further action as required by the applicable provisions of this subpart.

(j) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
