
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.766 Storage vessel standards.

(a) This section applies to each storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions (as defined in § 63.761) subject to this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator of a storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions (as defined in § 63.761) shall comply with one of the control requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall equip the affected storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions with a cover that is connected, through a closed-vent system that meets the conditions specified in § 63.771(c), to a control device or a combination of control devices that meets any of the conditions specified in § 63.771(d). The cover shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 63.771(b).

(2) The owner or operator of a pressure storage vessel that is designed to operate as a closed system shall operate the storage vessel with no detectable emissions at all times that material is in the storage vessel, except as provided for in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator shall control air emissions by connecting the cover, through a closed-vent system that meets the conditions specified in § 63.771(c), to a process natural gas line.

(c) One or more safety devices that vent directly to the atmosphere may be used on the storage vessel and air emission control equipment complying with paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(d) This section does not apply to storage vessels for which the owner or operator is subject to and controlled under the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 60, subparts Kb or OOOO; or is subject to and controlled under the requirements specified under 40 CFR part 63 subparts G or CC. Storage vessels subject to and controlled under 40 CFR part 60, subpart OOOO shall submit the periodic reports specified in § 63.775(e).
