
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.764 General standards.

(a) Table 2 of this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A (General Provisions) of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart.

(b) All reports required under this subpart shall be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. Reports may be submitted on electronic media.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source located at an existing or new major source of HAP emissions shall comply with the standards in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For each glycol dehydration unit process vent subject to this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the control requirements for glycol dehydration unit process vents specified in § 63.765;

(ii) The owner or operator shall comply with the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.773; and

(iii) The owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.774 and 63.775.

(2) For each storage vessel with the potential for flash emissions subject to this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The control requirements for storage vessels specified in § 63.766;

(ii) The monitoring requirements specified in § 63.773; and

(iii) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.774 and 63.775.

(3) For ancillary equipment (as defined in § 63.761) and compressors at a natural gas processing plant subject to this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements for equipment leaks specified in § 63.769.

(d) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source located at an existing or new area source of HAP emissions shall comply with the applicable standards specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) Each owner or operator of an area source located within an UA plus offset and UC boundary (as defined in § 63.761) shall comply with the provisions specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The control requirements for glycol dehydration unit process vents specified in § 63.765;

(ii) The monitoring requirements specified in § 63.773; and

(iii) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.774 and 63.775.

(2) Each owner or operator of an area source not located in a UA plus offset and UC boundary (as defined in § 63.761) shall comply with paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Determine the optimum glycol circulation rate using the following equation:

(ii) Operate the TEG dehydration unit such that the actual glycol circulation rate does not exceed the optimum glycol circulation rate determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. If the TEG dehydration unit is unable to meet the sales gas specification for moisture content using the glycol circulation rate determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i), the owner or operator must calculate an alternate circulation rate using GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher. The owner or operator must document why the TEG dehydration unit must be operated using the alternate circulation rate and submit this documentation with the initial notification in accordance with § 63.775(c)(7).

(iii) Maintain a record of the determination specified in paragraph (d)(2)(ii) in accordance with the requirements in § 63.774(f) and submit the Initial Notification in accordance with the requirements in § 63.775(c)(7). If operating conditions change and a modification to the optimum glycol circulation rate is required, the owner or operator shall prepare a new determination in accordance with paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section and submit the information specified under § 63.775(c)(7)(ii) through (v).
