
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.771 Control equipment requirements.
####### Control device requirements for small glycol dehydration units.

(f)(1) The control device used to meet BTEX the emission limit calculated in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii) shall be one of the control devices specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) An enclosed combustion device (e.g., thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) that is designed and operated to meet the levels specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

(A) The mass content of BTEX in the gases vented to the device is reduced as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.772(e).

(B) The concentration of either TOC or total HAP in the exhaust gases at the outlet of the device is reduced to a level equal to or less than 20 parts per million by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.772(e).

(ii) A vapor recovery device (e.g., carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device that is designed and operated to reduce the mass content of BTEX in the gases vented to the device as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.772(e).

(iii) A flare, as defined in § 63.761, that is designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11(b).

(2) The owner or operator shall operate each control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Each control device used to comply with this subpart shall be operating at all times. An owner or operator may vent more than one unit to a control device used to comply with this subpart.

(ii) For each control device monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 63.773(d), the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of either § 63.772(f) or (h).

(3) For each carbon adsorption system used as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall manage the carbon as required under (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.
