
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### ยง 63.772 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### No detectable emissions test procedure.

(c)(1) The no detectable emissions test procedure shall be conducted in accordance with Method 21, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(2) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except that the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the fluid and not for each individual organic compound in the stream.

(3) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(4) Calibration gases shall be as follows:

(i) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million by volume hydrocarbon in air); and

(ii) A mixture of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million by volume.

(5) An owner or operator may choose to adjust or not adjust the detection instrument readings to account for the background organic concentration level. If an owner or operator chooses to adjust the instrument readings for the background level, the background level value must be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(6)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, the detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the process fluid, not each individual volatile organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, or other inert gases that are not organic hazardous air pollutants or volatile organic compounds, the average stream response factor shall be calculated on an inert-free basis.

(ii) If no instrument is available at the facility that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, the instrument readings may be adjusted by multiplying by the average response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis as described in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section.

(7) An owner or operator must determine if a potential leak interface operates with no detectable emissions using the applicable procedure specified in paragraph (c)(7)(i) or (c)(7)(ii) of this section.

(i) If an owner or operator chooses not to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, then the maximum organic concentration value measured by the detection instrument is compared directly to the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(ii) If an owner or operator chooses to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, the value of the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration value measured by the instrument and the background organic concentration value as determined in paragraph (c)(5) of this section is compared with the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(8) A potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (c)(7) of this section, is less than 500 parts per million by volume.
