
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### ยง 63.772 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Test procedures and compliance demonstrations for small glycol dehydration units.

(d)This paragraph applies to the test procedures for small dehydration units.

(1) If the owner or operator is using a control device to comply with the emission limit in ยง 63.765(b)(1)(iii), the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section apply. Compliance is demonstrated using the methods specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2) If no control device is used to comply with the emission limit in ยง 63.765(b)(1)(iii), the owner or operator must determine the glycol dehydration unit BTEX emissions as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. Compliance is demonstrated if the BTEX emissions determined as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) are less than the emission limit calculated using the equation in ยง 63.765(b)(1)(iii).

(i) Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites at the outlet of the glycol dehydration unit process vent. Any references to particulate mentioned in Methods 1 and 1A do not apply to this section.

(ii) The gas volumetric flowrate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(iii) The BTEX emissions from the outlet of the glycol dehydration unit process vent shall be determined using the procedures specified in paragraph (e)(3)(v) of this section. As an alternative, the mass rate of BTEX at the outlet of the glycol dehydration unit process vent may be calculated using the model GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher, and the procedures presented in the associated GRI-GLYCalcTechnical Reference Manual. Inputs to the model shall be representative of actual operating conditions of the glycol dehydration unit and shall be determined using the procedures documented in the Gas Research Institute (GRI) report entitled "Atmospheric Rich/Lean Method for Determining Glycol Dehydrator Emissions" (GRI-95/0368.1). When the BTEX mass rate is calculated for glycol dehydration units using the model GRI-GLYCalc, all BTEX measured by Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be summed.
