
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.771 Control equipment requirements.
####### Process modification requirements.

(e)Each owner or operator that chooses to comply with § 63.765(c)(2) shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall determine glycol dehydration unit baseline operations (as defined in § 63.761). Records of glycol dehydration unit baseline operations shall be retained as required under § 63.774(b)(10).

(2) The owner or operator shall document, to the Administrator's satisfaction, the conditions for which glycol dehydration unit baseline operations shall be modified to achieve the 95.0 percent overall HAP emission reduction, or BTEX limit determined in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii), as applicable, either through process modifications or through a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices. If a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices are used, the owner or operator shall also establish the emission reduction to be achieved by the control device to achieve an overall HAP emission reduction of 95.0 percent for the glycol dehydration unit process vent or, if applicable, the BTEX limit determined in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii) for the small glycol dehydration unit process vent. Only modifications in glycol dehydration unit operations directly related to process changes, including but not limited to changes in glycol circulation rate or glycol-HAP absorbency, shall be allowed. Changes in the inlet gas characteristics or natural gas throughput rate shall not be considered in determining the overall emission reduction due to process modifications.

(3) The owner or operator that achieves a 95.0 percent HAP emission reduction or meets the BTEX limit determined in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii), as applicable, using process modifications alone shall comply with paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section. The owner or operator that achieves a 95.0 percent HAP emission reduction or meets the BTEX limit determined in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii), as applicable, using a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices shall comply with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall maintain records, as required in § 63.774(b)(11), that the facility continues to operate in accordance with the conditions specified under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(ii) The owner or operator shall comply with the control device requirements specified in paragraph (d) or (f) of this section, as applicable, except that the emission reduction or limit achieved shall be the emission reduction or limit specified for the control device(s) in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
