
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.772 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Compliance demonstration for control device performance requirements.

(f)This paragraph applies to the demonstration of compliance with the control device performance requirements specified in § 63.771(d)(1)(i), (e)(3), and (f)(1). Compliance shall be demonstrated using the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section. As an alternative, an owner or operator that installs a condenser as the control device to achieve the requirements specified in § 63.771(d)(1)(ii), (e)(3), or (f)(1) may demonstrate compliance according to paragraph (g) of this section. An owner or operator may switch between compliance with paragraph (f) of this section and compliance with paragraph (g) of this section only after at least 1 year of operation in compliance with the selected approach. Notification of such a change in the compliance method shall be reported in the next Periodic Report, as required in § 63.775(e), following the change.

(1) The owner or operator shall establish a site specific maximum or minimum monitoring parameter value (as appropriate) according to the requirements of § 63.773(d)(5)(i).

(2) The owner or operator shall calculate the daily average of the applicable monitored parameter in accordance with § 63.773(d)(4) except that the inlet gas flowrate to the control device shall not be averaged.

(3) Compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the daily average of the monitoring parameter value calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section is either equal to or greater than the minimum or equal to or less than the maximum monitoring value established under paragraph (f)(1) of this section. For inlet gas flowrate, compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the value is equal to or less than the value established under § 63.772(h) or under the performance test conducted under § 63.772(e), as applicable.

(4) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments), the CMS required in § 63.773(d) must be operated at all times the affected source is operating. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Monitoring system repairs are required to be completed in response to monitoring system malfunctions and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.

(5) Data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities may not be used in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. All the data collected during all other required data collection periods must be used in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.

(6) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required quality monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, system accuracy audits and required zero and span adjustments), failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements.
