
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### ยง 63.772 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### 2

() A combustion control device demonstrating during the performance test under ยง 63.772(e) that combustion zone temperature is an indicator of destruction efficiency and operates at a minimum temperature of 760 degrees C.

(4) For a condenser design analysis conducted to meet the requirements of ยง 63.771(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1), the owner or operator shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. Documentation of the design analysis shall be submitted as a part of the Notification of Compliance Status Report as required in ยง 63.775(d)(1)(i).

(i) The condenser design analysis shall include an analysis of the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, flowrate, relative humidity, and temperature, and shall establish the design outlet organic compound concentration level, design average temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream, and the design average temperatures of the coolant fluid at the condenser inlet and outlet. As an alternative to the condenser design analysis, an owner or operator may elect to use the procedures specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(ii) If the owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on a demonstration of control device performance using a design analysis then the disagreement shall be resolved using the results of a performance test performed by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The Administrator may choose to have an authorized representative observe the performance test.

(5) As an alternative to the procedures in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section, an owner or operator may elect to use the procedures documented in the GRI report entitled, "Atmospheric Rich/Lean Method for Determining Glycol Dehydrator Emissions" (GRI-95/0368.1) as inputs for the model GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher, to generate a condenser performance curve.
