
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.772 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Compliance demonstration with percent reduction or emission limit performance requirements-condensers.

(g)This paragraph applies to the demonstration of compliance with the performance requirements specified in § 63.771(d)(1)(ii), (e)(3), or (f)(1) for condensers. Compliance shall be demonstrated using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall establish a site-specific condenser performance curve according to § 63.773(d)(5)(ii). For sources required to meet the BTEX limit in accordance with § 63.771(e) or (f)(1) the owner or operator shall identify the minimum percent reduction necessary to meet the BTEX limit.

(2) Compliance with the requirements in § 63.771(d)(1)(ii), (e)(3), or (f)(1) shall be demonstrated by the procedures in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator must calculate the daily average condenser outlet temperature in accordance with § 63.773(d)(4).

(ii) The owner or operator shall determine the condenser efficiency for the current operating day using the daily average condenser outlet temperature calculated under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and the condenser performance curve established under paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, at the end of each operating day, the owner or operator shall calculate the 365-day average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction, as appropriate, from the condenser efficiencies as determined in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section for the preceding 365 operating days. If the owner or operator uses a combination of process modifications and a condenser in accordance with the requirements of § 63.771(e), the 365-day average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction shall be calculated using the emission reduction achieved through process modifications and the condenser efficiency as determined in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section, both for the previous 365 operating days.
