
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.773 Inspection and monitoring requirements.
####### Cover and closed-vent system inspection and monitoring requirements.

(c)(1) For each closed-vent system or cover required to comply with this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c) (2) through (7) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section, each closed-vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, each cover shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section, and each bypass device shall be inspected according to the procedures of paragraph (c)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) For each closed-vent system joints, seams, or other connections that are permanently or semi-permanently sealed (e.g., a welded joint between two sections of hard piping or a bolted and gasketed ducting flange), the owner or operator shall:

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures specified in § 63.772(c) to demonstrate that the closed-vent system operates with no detectable emissions. Inspection results shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status Report as specified in § 63.775(d)(1) or (2).

(B) Conduct annual visual inspections for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in piping; loose connections; or broken or missing caps or other closure devices. The owner or operator shall monitor a component or connection using the procedures in § 63.772(c) to demonstrate that it operates with no detectable emissions following any time the component is repaired or replaced or the connection is unsealed. Inspection results shall be submitted in the Periodic Report as specified in § 63.775(e)(2)(iii).

(ii) For closed-vent system components other than those specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the owner or operator shall:

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures specified in § 63.772(c) to demonstrate that the closed-vent system operates with no detectable emissions. Inspection results shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status Report as specified in § 63.775(d)(1) or (2).

(B) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures specified in § 63.772(c) to demonstrate that the components or connections operate with no detectable emissions. Inspection results shall be submitted in the Periodic Report as specified in § 63.775(e)(2)(iii).

(C) Conduct annual visual inspections for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in ductwork; loose connections; or broken or missing caps or other closure devices. Inspection results shall be submitted in the Periodic Report as specified in § 63.775(e)(2)(iii).

(iii) For each cover, the owner or operator shall:

(A) Conduct visual inspections for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the cover, or between the cover and the separator wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices. In the case where the storage vessel is buried partially or entirely underground, inspection is required only for those portions of the cover that extend to or above the ground surface, and those connections that are on such portions of the cover (e.g., fill ports, access hatches, gauge wells, etc.) and can be opened to the atmosphere.

(B) The inspections specified in paragraph (c)(2)(iii)(A) of this section shall be conducted initially, following the installation of the cover. Inspection results shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status Report as specified in § 63.775(d)(12). Thereafter, the owner or operator shall perform the inspection at least once every calendar year, except as provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section. Annual inspection results shall be submitted in the Periodic Report as specified in § 63.775(e)(2)(iii).

(iv) For each bypass device, except as provided for in § 63.771(c)(3)(ii), the owner or operator shall either:

(A) At the inlet to the bypass device that could divert the steam away from the control device to the atmosphere, set the flow indicator to take a reading at least once every 15 minutes; or

(B) If the bypass device valve installed at the inlet to the bypass device is secured in the non-diverting position using a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration, visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to verify that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass device.

(3) In the event that a leak or defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the leak or defect as soon as practicable, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(i) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(ii) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(4) Delay of repair of a closed-vent system or cover for which leaks or defects have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown, as defined in § 63.761, or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next shutdown.

(5) Any parts of the closed-vent system or cover that are designated, as described in paragraphs (c)(5) (i) and (ii) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section if:

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.

(6) Any parts of the closed-vent system or cover that are designated, as described in paragraphs (c)(6) (i) and (ii) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section if:

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.

(7) Records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.774(b)(5) through (8).
