
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### ยง 63.772 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### 2

(2) A pilot flame shall be present at all times of operation. The pilot flame shall be monitored in accordance with ยง 63.773(d)(3)(i)(H)().

(3) Devices shall be operated with no visible emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 2 minutes during any hour. A visible emissions test using Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, shall be performed each calendar quarter. The observation period shall be 1 hour and shall be conducted according to EPA Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A.

(4) Compliance with the operating parameter limit is achieved when the following criteria are met:

(i) The inlet gas flowrate monitored under paragraph (i)(1) of this section is equal to or below the maximum established by the manufacturer; and

(ii) The pilot flame is present at all times; and

(iii) During the visible emissions test performed under paragraph (i)(3) of this section the duration of visible emissions does not exceed a total of 2 minutes during the observation period. Devices failing the visible emissions test shall follow manufacturers repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All repairs and maintenance activities for each unit shall be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and shall be available on site for inspection.

(iv) Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22 visual observation as described in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.
