
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.774 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The recordkeeping provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 2 of this subpart.

(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (c), (d), and (f) of this section, each owner or operator of a facility subject to this subpart shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (11) of this section:

(1) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart shall maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) required by this subpart. The files shall be retained for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report or period.

(i) All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed.

(ii) The most recent 12 months of records shall be retained on site or shall be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request.

(iii) The remaining 4 years of records may be retained offsite.

(iv) Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.

(2) Records specified in § 63.10(b)(2);

(3) Records specified in § 63.10(c) for each monitoring system operated by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.773(d). Notwithstanding the requirements of § 63.10(c), monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section shall not be included in any average or percent leak rate computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device operation when monitors are not operating or failed to collect required data.

(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments;

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) Periods of non-operation resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies; and

(iv) Excursions due to invalid data as defined in § 63.773(d)(6)(iv).

(4) Each owner or operator using a control device to comply with § 63.764 of this subpart shall keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible:

(i) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.773(d) or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.773(d)(3)(iii). For flares, the hourly records and records of pilot flame outages specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall be maintained in place of continuous records.

(ii) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.773(d)(4) of this subpart, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) For flares, the records required in paragraph (e) of this section.

(B) For condensers installed to comply with § 63.765, records of the annual 365-day rolling average condenser efficiency determined under § 63.772(g) shall be kept in addition to the daily averages.

(C) For a control device whose model is tested under § 63.772(h), the records required in paragraph (h) of this section.

(iii) Hourly records of the times and durations of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the device is not operating.

(iv) Where a seal or closure mechanism is used to comply with § 63.771(c)(3)(i)(B), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the duration of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.

(5) Records identifying all parts of the cover or closed-vent system that are designated as unsafe to inspect in accordance with § 63.773(c)(5), an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(6) Records identifying all parts of the cover or closed-vent system that are designated as difficult to inspect in accordance with § 63.773(c)(6), an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(7) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.773(c), during which a leak or defect is detected, a record of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (b)(7)(viii) of this section.

(i) The instrument identification numbers, operator name or initials, and identification of the equipment.

(ii) The date the leak or defect was detected and the date of the first attempt to repair the leak or defect.

(iii) Maximum instrument reading measured by the method specified in § 63.772(c) after the leak or defect is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.

(iv) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak or defect is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak or defect.

(v) The name, initials, or other form of identification of the owner or operator (or designee) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a shutdown.

(vi) The expected date of successful repair of the leak or defect if a leak or defect is not repaired within 15 calendar days.

(vii) Dates of shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.

(viii) The date of successful repair of the leak or defect.

(ix) Records identifying the carbon replacement schedule under § 63.771(d)(5) and records of each carbon replacement.

(8) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.773(c) during which no leaks or defects are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks or defects were detected.

(9) Records identifying ancillary equipment and compressors that are subject to and controlled under the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart KKK; 40 CFR part 61, subpart V; or 40 CFR part 63, subpart H.

(10) Records of glycol dehydration unit baseline operations calculated as required under § 63.771(e)(1).

(11) Records required in § 63.771(e)(3)(i) documenting that the facility continues to operate under the conditions specified in § 63.771(e)(2).

(c) An owner or operator that elects to comply with the benzene emission limit specified in § 63.765(b)(1)(ii) shall document, to the Administrator's satisfaction, the following items:

(1) The method used for achieving compliance and the basis for using this compliance method; and

(2) The method used for demonstrating compliance with 0.90 megagrams per year of benzene.

(3) Any information necessary to demonstrate compliance as required in the methods specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.

(d)(1) An owner or operator of a glycol dehydration unit that meets the exemption criteria in § 63.764(e)(1)(i) or § 63.764(e)(1)(ii) shall maintain the records specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, as appropriate, for that glycol dehydration unit.

(i) The actual annual average natural gas throughput (in terms of natural gas flowrate to the glycol dehydration unit per day) as determined in accordance with § 63.772(b)(1), or

(ii) The actual average benzene emissions (in terms of benzene emissions per year) as determined in accordance with § 63.772(b)(2).

(2) An owner or operator that is exempt from the control requirements under § 63.764(e)(2) of this subpart shall maintain the following records:

(i) Information and data used to demonstrate that a piece of ancillary equipment or a compressor is not in VHAP service or not in wet gas service shall be recorded in a log that is kept in a readily accessible location.

(ii) Identification and location of ancillary equipment or compressors, located at a natural gas processing plant subject to this subpart, that is in VHAP service less than 300 hours per year.

(e) Record the following when using a flare to comply with § 63.771(d):

(1) Flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted);

(2) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flowrate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.772(e)(2); and

(3) All hourly records and other recorded periods when the pilot flame is absent.

(f) The owner or operator of an area source not located within a UA plus offset and UC boundary must keep a record of the calculation used to determine the optimum glycol circulation rate in accordance with § 63.764(d)(2)(i) or § 63.764(d)(2)(ii), as applicable.
