
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.775 Reporting requirements.
####### Oil_and_Gas_PT@EPA.GOV,epa.gov/airquality/oilandgas/.

(ii) If the owner or operator is required to conduct a performance test, the performance test results including the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. Results of a performance test conducted prior to the compliance date of this subpart can be used provided that the test was conducted using the methods specified in § 63.772(e)(3) and that the test conditions are representative of current operating conditions. If the owner or operator operates a combustion control device model tested under § 63.772(h), an electronic copy of the performance test results shall be submitted via email tounless the test results for that model of combustion control device are posted at the following Web site:

(A) The percent reduction of HAP or TOC, or the outlet concentration of HAP or TOC (parts per million by volume on a dry basis), determined as specified in § 63.772(e)(3) of this subpart; and

(B) The value of the monitored parameters specified in § 773(d) of this subpart, or a site-specific parameter approved by the permitting agency, averaged over the full period of the performance test.

(iii) The results of the closed-vent system initial inspections performed according to the requirements in § 63.773(c)(2)(i) and (ii).

(2) If a closed-vent system and a flare are used to comply with § 63.764, the owner or operator shall submit performance test results including the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall also submit the information in paragraph (d)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flowrate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.772(e)(2) of this subpart.

(ii) A statement of whether a flame was present at the pilot light over the full period of the compliance determination.

(iii) The results of the closed-vent system initial inspections performed according to the requirements in § 63.773(c)(2)(i) and (ii).

(3) For each owner or operator subject to the provisions specified in § 63.769, the owner or operator shall submit the information required by § 61.247(a), except that the initial report required in § 61.247(a) shall be submitted as a part of the Notification of Compliance Status Report required in paragraph (d) of this section. The owner or operator shall also submit the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The number of each equipment (e.g., valves, pumps, etc.) excluding equipment in vacuum service, and

(ii) Any change in the information submitted in this paragraph shall be provided to the Administrator as a part of subsequent Periodic Reports described in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall submit one complete test report for each test method used for a particular source.

(i) For additional tests performed using the same test method, the results specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(ii) A complete test report shall include a sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(5) For each control device other than a flare used to meet the requirements of § 63.764, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (d)(5) (i) through (iii) of this section for each operating parameter required to be monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 63.773(d).

(i) The minimum operating parameter value or maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate for the control device, established by the owner or operator to define the conditions at which the control device must be operated to continuously achieve the applicable performance requirements of § 63.771(d)(1) or (e)(3)(ii).

(ii) An explanation of the rationale for why the owner or operator selected each of the operating parameter values established in § 63.773(d)(5). This explanation shall include any data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the chosen value indicates that the control device is operating in accordance with the applicable requirements of § 63.771(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii) or (f)(1).

(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.

(iv) For each carbon adsorber, the predetermined carbon replacement schedule as required in § 63.771(d)(5)(i).

(6) Results of any continuous monitoring system performance evaluations shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status Report.

(7) After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, the owner or operator of such source shall comply with all requirements for compliance status reports contained in the source's title V permit, including reports required under this subpart. After a title V permit has been issued to the owner or operator of an affected source, and each time a notification of compliance status is required under this subpart, the owner or operator of such source shall submit the notification of compliance status to the appropriate permitting authority following completion of the relevant compliance demonstration activity specified in this subpart.

(8) The owner or operator that elects to comply with the requirements of § 63.765(b)(1)(ii) shall submit the records required under § 63.774(c).

(9) The owner or operator shall submit the analysis performed under § 63.760(a)(1).

(10) The owner or operator shall submit a statement as to whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart.

(11) The owner or operator shall submit the analysis prepared under § 63.771(e)(2) to demonstrate the conditions by which the facility will be operated to achieve the HAP emission reduction of 95.0 percent, or the BTEX limit in § 63.765(b)(1)(iii), through process modifications or a combination of process modifications and one or more control devices.

(12) If a cover is installed to comply with § 63.764, the results of the initial inspection performed according to the requirements specified in § 63.773(c)(2)(iii).

(13) If the owner or operator installs a combustion control device model tested under the procedures in § 63.772(h), the data listed under § 63.772(h)(8).

(14) For each combustion control device model tested under § 63.772(h), the information listed in paragraphs (d)(14)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Name, address and telephone number of the control device manufacturer.

(ii) Control device model number.

(iii) Control device serial number.

(iv) Date the model of control device was tested by the manufacturer.

(v) Manufacturer's HAP destruction efficiency rating.

(vi) Control device operating parameters, maximum allowable inlet gas flowrate.
