
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.775 Reporting requirements.

(a) The reporting provisions of subpart A of this part, that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 2 of this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of a major source subject to this subpart shall submit the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(7) and (b)(8) of this section.

(1) The initial notifications required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the initial notifications shall be submitted by 1 year after an affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by June 17, 2000, whichever is later. Affected sources that are major sources on or before June 17, 2000, and plan to be area sources by June 17, 2002, shall include in this notification a brief, nonbinding description of a schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.

(ii) An affected source identified under § 63.760(f)(7) or (9) shall submit an initial notification required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) within 1 year after the affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by October 15, 2013, whichever is later. An affected source identified under § 63.760(f)(7) or (9) that plans to be an area source by October 15, 2015, shall include in this notification a brief, nonbinding description of a schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.

(2) The date of the performance evaluation as specified in § 63.8(e)(2), required only if the owner or operator is required by the Administrator to conduct a performance evaluation for a continuous monitoring system. A separate notification of the performance evaluation is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) The planned date of a performance test at least 60 days before the test in accordance with § 63.7(b). Unless requested by the Administrator, a site-specific test plan is not required by this subpart. If requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator must also submit the site-specific test plan required by § 63.7(c) with the notification of the performance test. A separate notification of the performance test is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) A Notification of Compliance Status report as described in paragraph (d) of this section;

(5) Periodic Reports as described in paragraph (e) of this section; and

(6) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the Periodic Report specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.764(j), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) Each owner or operator of ancillary equipment and compressors subject to this subpart that are exempt from the control requirements for equipment leaks in § 63.769, are exempt from all reporting requirements for major sources in this subpart, for that equipment.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(8), each owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart shall submit the information listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. If the source is located within a UA plus offset and UC boundary, the owner or operator shall also submit the information listed in paragraphs (c)(2) through (6) of this section. If the source is not located within any UA plus offset and UC boundaries, the owner or operator shall also submit the information listed within paragraph (c)(7).
