
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.775 Reporting requirements.
####### Oil and Gas Sector@epa.gov

(1) The initial notifications required under § 63.9(b)(2) not later than January 3, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. In addition to submitting your initial notification to the addressees specified under § 63.9(a), you must also submit a copy of the initial notification to the EPA's Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. Send your notification via email toor via U.S. mail or other mail delivery service to U.S. EPA, Sector Policies and Programs Division/Fuels and Incineration Group (E143-01), Attn: Oil and Gas Project Leader, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

(2) The date of the performance evaluation as specified in § 63.8(e)(2) if an owner or operator is required by the Administrator to conduct a performance evaluation for a continuous monitoring system.

(3) The planned date of a performance test at least 60 days before the test in accordance with § 63.7(b). Unless requested by the Administrator, a site-specific test plan is not required by this subpart. If requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator must submit the site-specific test plan required by § 63.7(c) with the notification of the performance test. A separate notification of the performance test is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(4) A Notification of Compliance Status as described in paragraph (d) of this section;

(5) Periodic reports as described in paragraph (e)(3) of this section; and

(6) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the Periodic Report specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.764(j), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.

(7) The information listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. This information shall be submitted with the initial notification.

(i) Documentation of the source's location relative to the nearest UA plus offset and UC boundaries. This information shall include the latitude and longitude of the affected source; whether the source is located in an urban cluster with 10,000 people or more; the distance in miles to the nearest urbanized area boundary if the source is not located in an urban cluster with 10,000 people or more; and the name of the nearest urban cluster with 10,000 people or more and nearest urbanized area.

(ii) Calculation of the optimum glycol circulation rate determined in accordance with § 63.764(d)(2)(i).

(iii) If applicable, documentation of the alternate glycol circulation rate calculated using GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher and documentation stating why the TEG dehydration unit must operate using the alternate glycol circulation rate.

(iv) The name of the manufacturer and the model number of the glycol circulation pump(s) in operation.

(v) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that the facility will always operate the glycol dehydration unit using the optimum circulation rate determined in accordance with § 63.764(d)(2)(i) or § 63.764(d)(2)(ii), as applicable.

(8) An owner or operator of a TEG dehydration unit located at an area source that meets the criteria in § 63.764(e)(1)(i) or § 63.764(e)(1)(ii) is exempt from the reporting requirements for area sources in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section, for that unit.

(d) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status Report as required under § 63.9(h) within 180 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.760(f). In addition to the information required under § 63.9(h), the Notification of Compliance Status Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination of the three. If all of the information required under this paragraph has been submitted at any time prior to 180 days after the applicable compliance dates specified in § 63.760(f), a separate Notification of Compliance Status Report is not required. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section at different times, and/or different submittals, subsequent submittals may refer to previous submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information.

(1) If a closed-vent system and a control device other than a flare are used to comply with § 63.764, the owner or operator shall submit the information in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section and the information in either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The condenser design analysis documentation specified in § 63.772(e)(4) of this subpart, if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design analysis.
