
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Oil and Natural Gas Production Facilities
###### § 63.775 Reporting requirements.
####### Periodic Reports.

(e)An owner or operator of a major source shall prepare Periodic Reports in accordance with paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section and submit them to the Administrator. An owner or operator of an area source shall prepare Periodic Reports in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section and submit them to the Administrator.

(1) An owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports semiannually beginning 60 calendar days after the end of the applicable reporting period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due.

(2) The owner or operator shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section, as applicable.

(i) The information required under § 63.10(e)(3). For the purposes of this subpart and the information required under § 63.10(e)(3), excursions (as defined in § 63.773(d)(6)) shall be considered excess emissions.

(ii) A description of all excursions as defined in § 63.773(d)(6) of this subpart that have occurred during the 6-month reporting period.

(A) For each excursion caused when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit), as specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(i), the report must include the daily average values of the monitored parameter, the applicable operating parameter limit, and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.

(B) For each excursion caused when the 365-day average condenser control efficiency is less than the value specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(ii), the report must include the 365-day average values of the condenser control efficiency, and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.

(C) For each excursion caused when condenser control efficiency is less than the value specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(iii), the report must include the average values of the condenser control efficiency, and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.

(D) For each excursion caused by the lack of monitoring data, as specified in § 63.773(d)(6)(iv), the report must include the date and duration of the period when the monitoring data were not collected and the reason why the data were not collected.

(E) For each excursion caused when the maximum inlet gas flowrate identified under § 63.772(h) is exceeded, the report must include the values of the inlet gas identified and the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred.

(F) For each excursion caused when visible emissions determined under § 63.772(i) exceed the maximum allowable duration, the report must include the date and duration of the period that the excursion occurred, repairs affected to the unit, and date the unit was returned to service.

(iii) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.773(c) during which a leak or defect is detected, the records specified in § 63.774(b)(7) must be included in the next Periodic Report.

(iv) For each owner or operator subject to the provisions specified in § 63.769, the owner or operator shall comply with the reporting requirements specified in 40 CFR 61.247, except that the Periodic Reports shall be submitted on the schedule specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(v) For each closed-vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.771(c)(3)(i)(A), records required under § 63.774(b)(4)(iii) of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line. For each closed-vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.771(c)(3)(i)(B), records required under § 63.774(b)(4)(iv) of all periods in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.

(vi) If an owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.765(b)(1)(ii), the records required under § 63.774(c)(3).

(vii) The information in paragraphs (e)(2)(vii) (A) and (B) of this section shall be stated in the Periodic Report, when applicable.

(A) No excursions.

(B) No continuous monitoring system has been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted.

(viii) Any change in compliance methods as specified in § 63.772(f).

(ix) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.765(c)(2), the records required under § 63.774(b)(11).

(x) For flares, the records specified in § 63.774(e)(3).

(xi) The results of any periodic test as required in § 63.772(e)(3) conducted during the reporting period.

(xii) For each carbon adsorber used to meet the control device requirements of § 63.771(d)(1), records of each carbon replacement that occurred during the reporting period.

(xiii) For combustion control device inspections conducted in accordance with § 63.773(b) the records specified in § 63.774(i).

(xiv) Certification by a responsible official of truth, accuracy, and completeness. This certification shall state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the document are true, accurate, and complete.

(3) An owner or operator of an area source located inside a UA plus offset and UC boundary shall prepare and submit Periodic Reports in accordance with paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Periodic reports must be submitted on an annual basis. The first reporting period shall cover the period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status Report is due and ending on December 31. The report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the reporting period.

(ii) Subsequent reporting periods begin every January 1 and end on December 31. Subsequent reports shall be submitted within 30 days following the end of the reporting period.

(iii) The periodic reports must contain the information included in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
