
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### ยง 63.783 Standards.

(a) No owner or operator of any existing or new affected source shall cause or allow the application of any coating to a ship with an as-applied VOHAP content exceeding the applicable limit given in Table 2 of this subpart, as determined by the procedures described in ยง 63.785 (c)(1) through (c)(4). For the compliance procedures described in ยง 63.785 (c)(1) through (c)(3), VOC shall be used as a surrogate for VOHAP, and Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 shall be used as the definitive measure for determining compliance. For the compliance procedure described in ยง 63.785(c)(4), an alternative test method capable of measuring independent VOHAP shall be used to determine compliance. The method must be submitted to and approved by the Administrator.

(b) Each owner or operator of a new or existing affected source shall ensure that:

(1) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(2) All handling and transfer of VOHAP-containing materials to and from containers, tanks, vats, drums, and piping systems is conducted in a manner that minimizes spills.

(3) All containers, tanks, vats, drums, and piping systems are free of cracks, holes, and other defects and remain closed unless materials are being added to or removed from them.
