
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### ยง 63.785 Compliance procedures.

(a) For each batch of coating that is received by an affected source, the owner or operator shall (see Figure 1 of this section for a flow diagram of the compliance procedures):

(1) Determine the coating category and the applicable VOHAP limit as specified in ยง 63.783(a).

(2) Certify the as-supplied VOC content of the batch of coating. The owner or operator may use a certification supplied by the manufacturer for the batch, although the owner or operator retains liability should subsequent testing reveal a violation. If the owner or operator performs the certification testing, only one of the containers in which the batch of coating was received is required to be tested.

(b)(1) In lieu of testing each batch of coating, as applied, the owner or operator may determine compliance with the VOHAP limits using any combination of the procedures described in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), (c)(3), and (c)(4) of this section. The procedure used for each coating shall be determined and documented prior to application.

(2) The results of any compliance demonstration conducted by the affected source or any regulatory agency using Method 24 shall take precedence over the results using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of this section.

(3) The results of any compliance demonstration conducted by the affected source or any regulatory agency using an approved test method to determine VOHAP content shall take precedence over the results using the procedures in paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
