
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### ยง 63.785 Compliance procedures.
####### Coatings to which thinning solvent will be added-coating-by-coating compliance.

(2)For a coating to which thinning solvent is routinely or sometimes added, the owner or operator shall comply as follows:

(i) Prior to the first application of each batch, designate a single thinner for the coating and calculate the maximum allowable thinning ratio (or ratios, if the affected source complies with the cold-weather limits in addition to the other limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart) for each batch as follows:

If Vis not supplied directly by the coating manufacturer, the owner or operator shall determine Vas follows:

The procedures specified in ยง 63.786(d) may be used to determine the values of variables defined in this paragraph. In addition, the owner or operator may choose to construct nomographs, based on Equation 1 of this subpart, similar or identical to the one provided in appendix B of this subpart as a means of easily estimating the maximum allowable thinning ratio.

(ii) Prior to the first application of each batch, notify painters and other persons, as necessary, of the designated thinner and maximum allowable thinning ratio(s) for each batch of the coating by affixing a label to each container of coating or through another means described in the implementation plan required in ยง 63.787(b).

(iii) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of each batch of the coating used, as supplied, during the previous month.

(iv) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the total allowable volume of thinner for the coating used during the previous month as follows:

(v) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of thinner actually used with the coating during the previous month.

(vi) If the volume of thinner actually used with the coating [paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section] is less than or equal to the total allowable volume of thinner for the coating [paragraph (c)(3)(iv) of this section], then compliance is demonstrated for the coating for the previous month, unless a violation is revealed using Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60.
