
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### § 63.785 Compliance procedures.
####### General requirements.

(1)(i) You must monitor and collect data, and provide a site specific monitoring plan, as required by §§ 63.783, 63.785, 63.786 and 63.787.

(ii) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating, and periods of malfunction. Any period for which data collection is required and the operation of the Continuous Emissions Monitoring System (CEMS) is not otherwise exempt and for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.

(iii) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.

(2) [Reserved]
