
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### ยง 63.785 Compliance procedures.
####### Coatings to which the same thinning solvent will be added-group compliance.

(3)For coatings to which the same thinning solvent (or other material) is routinely or sometimes added, the owner or operator shall comply as follows:

(i) Designate a single thinner to be added to each coating during the month and "group" coatings according to their designated thinner.

(ii) Prior to the first application of each batch, calculate the maximum allowable thinning ratio (or ratios, if the affected source complies with the cold-weather limits in addition to the other limits specified in Table 2 of this subpart) for each batch of coating in the group using the equations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iii) Prior to the first application of each "batch," notify painters and other persons, as necessary, of the designated thinner and maximum allowable thinning ratio(s) for each batch in the group by affixing a label to each container of coating or through another means described in the implementation plan required in ยง 63.787(b).

(iv) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of each batch of the group used, as supplied, during the previous month.

(v) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the total allowable volume of thinner for the group for the previous month using Equation 3 of this subpart.

(vi) By the 15th day of each calendar month, determine the volume of thinner actually used with the group during the previous month.

(vii) If the volume of thinner actually used with the group [paragraph (c)(3)(vi) of this section] is less than or equal to the total allowable volume of thinner for the group [paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section], then compliance is demonstrated for the group for the previous month, unless a violation is revealed using Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60.
