
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### ยง 63.785 Compliance procedures.
####### Demonstration of compliance through an alternative (i.e., other than Method 24 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60) test method.

(4)The owner or operator shall comply as follows:

(i) Certify the as-supplied VOHAP content (g VOHAP/L solids) of each batch of coating.

(ii) If no thinning solvent will be added to the coating, the owner or operator of an affected source shall follow the procedure described in ยง 63.785(c)(1), except that VOHAP content shall be used in lieu of VOC content.

(iii) If thinning solvent will be added to the coating, the owner or operator of an affected source shall follow the procedure described in ยง 63.785(c)(2) or (3), except that in Equation 1 of this subpart: the term "m" shall be replaced by the term "m," defined as the VOHAP content of the coating as supplied (g VOHAP/L coating) and the term "D" shall be replaced by the term "D" defined as the average density of the VOHAP thinner(s) (g/L).

(d) A violation revealed through any approved test method shall result in a 1-day violation for enforcement purposes. A violation revealed through the recordkeeping procedures described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section shall result in a 30-day violation for enforcement purposes, unless the owner or operator provides sufficient data to demonstrate the specific days during which noncompliant coatings were applied.

(e) Continuous compliance requirements. You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions standards and operating limits by using the performance test methods and procedures in ยง 63.786 for each affected source.
