
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart II - National Emission Standards for Shipbuilding and Ship Repair (Surface Coating)
###### ยง 63.788 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.
####### Reporting requirements.

(c)Before the 60th day following completion of each 6 month period after the compliance date specified in ยง 63.784, each owner or operator of an affected source shall submit a report to the Administrator for each of the previous 6 months. The report shall include all of the information that must be retained pursuant to paragraphs (b)(2) through (3) of this section, except for that information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (ii), (b)(2)(v), (b)(3)(i)(A), (b)(3)(ii)(A), and (b)(3)(iii)(A). If a violation at an affected source is detected, the owner or operator of the affected source shall also report the information specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for the reporting period during which the violation(s) occurred. To the extent possible, the report shall be organized according to the compliance procedure(s) followed each month by the affected source. If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the report must also include the number, duration and a brief description of each malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 63.783(b)(1), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
