
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### ยง 63.801 Definitions.
####### Wood furniture manufacturing operations

means the finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations associated with the production of wood furniture or wood furniture components.

(b) The nomenclature used in this subpart has the following meaning:

(1) A= the area of each natural draft opening (k) in a total enclosure, in square meters.

(2) C= the VHAP content of a finishing material (c), in kilograms of volatile hazardous air pollutants per kilogram of coating solids (kg VHAP/kg solids), as supplied. Also given in pounds of volatile hazardous air pollutants per pound of coating solids (lb VHAP/lb solids).

(3) C= the concentration of VHAP in gas stream (j) exiting the control device, in parts per million by volume.

(4) C= the concentration of VHAP in gas stream (i) entering the control device, in parts per million by volume.

(5) C= the concentration of VHAP in gas stream (i) entering the control device from the affected source, in parts per million by volume.

(6) C= the concentration of VHAP in uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the affected source, in parts per million by volume.

(7) E = the emission limit achieved by an emission point or a set of emission points, in kg VHAP/kg solids (lb VHAP/lb solids).

(8) F = the control device efficiency, expressed as a fraction.

(9) FV = the average inward face velocity across all natural draft openings in a total enclosure, in meters per hour.

(10) G = the VHAP content of a contact adhesive, in kg VHAP/kg solids (lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied.

(11) M = the mass of solids in finishing material used monthly, kg solids/month (lb solids/month).

(12) N = the capture efficiency, expressed as a fraction.

(13) Q= the volumetric flow rate of gas stream (j) exiting the control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.

(14) Q= the volumetric flow rate of gas stream (i) entering the control device, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.

(15) Q= the volumetric flow rate of gas stream (i) entering the control device from the emission point, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.

(16) Q= the volumetric flow rate of uncontrolled gas stream (k) emitted directly to the atmosphere from the emission point, in dry standard cubic meters per hour.

(17) Q= the volumetric flow rate of gas stream (i) entering the total enclosure through a forced makeup air duct, in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis).

(18) Q= the volumetric flow rate of gas stream (j) exiting the total enclosure through an exhaust duct or hood, in standard cubic meters per hour (wet basis).

(19) R = the overall efficiency of the control system, expressed as a percentage.

(20) S = the VHAP content of a solvent, expressed as a weight fraction, added to finishing materials.

(21) W = the amount of solvent, in kilograms (pounds), added to finishing materials during the monthly averaging period.

(22) ac = after the control system is installed and operated.

(23) bc = before control.

(24) C= the formaldehyde content of a finishing material (c), in pounds of formaldehyde per gallon of coating (lb/gal).

(25) F= total formaldehyde emissions in each rolling 12 month period.

(26) G= the formaldehyde content of a contact adhesive (g), in pounds of formaldehyde per gallon of contact adhesive (lb/gal).

(27) V= the volume of formaldehyde-containing finishing material (c), in gal.

(28) V= the volume of formaldehyde-containing contact adhesive (g), in gal.
