
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.802 Emission limits.

(a) Each owner or operator of an existing affected source subject to this subpart shall:

(1) Limit VHAP emissions from finishing operations by meeting the emission limitations for existing sources presented in Table 3 of this subpart, using any of the compliance methods in § 63.804(a). To determine VHAP emissions from a finishing material containing formaldehyde or styrene, the owner or operator of the affected source shall use the methods presented in § 63.803(l)(2) for determining styrene and formaldehyde usage.

(2) Limit VHAP emissions from contact adhesives by achieving a VHAP limit for contact adhesives based on the following criteria:

(i) For foam adhesives (contact adhesives used for upholstery operations) used in products that meet the upholstered seating flammability requirements of California Technical Bulletin 116, 117, or 133, the Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers Association's (BIFMA's) X5.7, UFAC flammability testing, or any similar requirements from local, State, or Federal fire regulatory agencies, the VHAP content of the adhesive shall not exceed 1.8 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.8 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied; or

(ii) For all other contact adhesives (including foam adhesives used in products that do not meet the standards presented in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, but excluding aerosol adhesives and excluding contact adhesives applied to nonporous substrates, the VHAP content of the adhesive shall not exceed 1.0 kg VHAP/kg solids (1.0 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied.

(3) Limit HAP emissions from strippable spray booth coatings by using coatings that contain no more than 0.8 kg VOC/kg solids (0.8 lb VOC/lb solids), as applied.

(4) Limit formaldehyde emissions by complying with the provisions specified in either paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (a)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) Limit total formaldehyde (F) use in coatings and contact adhesives to no more than 400 pounds per rolling 12 month period.

(ii) Use coatings and contact adhesives only if they are low-formaldehyde coatings and adhesives, in any wood furniture manufacturing operations.

(b) Each owner or operator of a new affected source subject to this subpart shall:

(1) Limit VHAP emissions from finishing operations by meeting the emission limitations for new sources presented in Table 3 of this subpart using any of the compliance methods in § 63.804(d). To determine VHAP emissions from a finishing material containing formaldehyde or styrene, the owner or operator of the affected source shall use the methods presented in § 63.803(l)(2) for determining styrene and formaldehyde usage.

(2) Limit VHAP emissions from contact adhesives by achieving a VHAP limit for contact adhesives, excluding aerosol adhesives and excluding contact adhesives applied to nonporous substrates, of no greater than 0.2 kg VHAP/kg solids (0.2 lb VHAP/lb solids), as applied, using either of the compliance methods in § 63.804(e).

(3) Limit HAP emissions from strippable spray booth coatings by using coatings that contain no more than 0.8 kg VOC/kg solids (0.8 lb VOC/lb solids), as applied.

(4) Limit formaldehyde emissions by complying with the provisions specified in either paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) Limit total formaldehyde (F) use in coatings and contact adhesives to no more than 400 pounds per rolling 12 month period.

(ii) Use coatings and contact adhesives only if they are low-formaldehyde coatings and adhesives, in any wood furniture manufacturing operations.

(c) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
