
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### ยง 63.803 Work practice standards.
####### Work practice implementation plan.

(a)(1) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall prepare and maintain a written work practice implementation plan that defines environmentally desirable work practices for each wood furniture operation manufacturing operation and addresses each of the work practice standards presented in paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section. The plan shall be developed no more than 60 days after the compliance date.

(2) The written work practice implementation plan shall be available for inspection by the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) upon request. If the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) determines that the work practice implementation plan does not include sufficient mechanisms for ensuring that the work practice standards are being implemented, the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority) may require the affected source to modify the plan. Revisions or modifications to the plan do not require a revision of the source's Title V permit.

(3) The inspection and maintenance plan required by paragraph (c) of this section and the formulation assessment plan for finishing operations required by paragraph (l) of this section are also reviewable by the Administrator (or delegated State, local, or Tribal authority).
