
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### ยง 63.803 Work practice standards.
####### Operator training course.

(b)Each owner or operator of an affected source shall train all new and existing personnel, including contract personnel, who are involved in finishing, gluing, cleaning, and washoff operations, use of manufacturing equipment, or implementation of the requirements of this subpart. All new personnel, those hired after the compliance date of the standard, shall be trained upon hiring. All existing personnel, those hired before the compliance date of the standard, shall be trained within six months of the compliance date of the standard. All personnel shall be given refresher training annually. The affected source shall maintain a copy of the training program with the work practice implementation plan. The training program shall include, at a minimum, the following:

(1) A list of all current personnel by name and job description that are required to be trained;

(2) An outline of the subjects to be covered in the initial and refresher training for each position or group of personnel;

(3) Lesson plans for courses to be given at the initial and the annual refresher training that include, at a minimum, appropriate application techniques, appropriate cleaning and washoff procedures, appropriate equipment setup and adjustment to minimize finishing material usage and overspray, and appropriate management of cleanup wastes; and

(4) A description of the methods to be used at the completion of initial or refresher training to demonstrate and document successful completion.
