
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### ยง 63.803 Work practice standards.
####### Formulation assessment plan for finishing operations.

(l)Each owner or operator of an affected source shall prepare and maintain with the work practice implementation plan a formulation assessment plan that:

(1) Identifies VHAP from the list presented in Table 5 of this subpart that are being used in finishing operations by the affected source;

(2) Establishes a baseline level of usage by the affected source, for each VHAP identified in paragraph (l)(1) of this section. The baseline usage level shall be the highest annual usage from 1994, 1995, or 1996, for each VHAP identified in paragraph (l)(1) of this section. For formaldehyde, the baseline level of usage shall be based on the amount of free formaldehyde present in the finishing material when it is applied. For styrene, the baseline level of usage shall be an estimate of unreacted styrene, which shall be calculated by multiplying the amount of styrene monomer in the finishing material, when it is applied, by a factor of 0.16. Sources using a control device to reduce emissions may adjust their usage based on the overall control efficiency of the control system, which is determined using the equation in ยง 63.805 (d) or (e).

(3) Tracks the annual usage of each VHAP identified in (l)(1) by the affected source that is present in amounts subject to MSDS reporting as required by OSHA.

(4) If, after November 1998, the annual usage of the VHAP identified in paragraph (l)(1) exceeds its baseline level, then the owner or operator of the affected source shall provide a written notification to the permitting authority that describes the amount of the increase and explains the reasons for exceedance of the baseline level. The following explanations would relieve the owner or operator from further action, unless the affected source is not in compliance with any State regulations or requirements for that VHAP:

(i) The exceedance is no more than 15.0 percent above the baseline level;

(ii) Usage of the VHAP is below the de minimis level presented in Table 5 of this subpart for that VHAP (sources using a control device to reduce emissions may adjust their usage based on the overall control efficiency of the control system, which is determined using the procedures in ยง 63.805 (d) or (e);

(iii) The affected source is in compliance with its State's air toxic regulations or guidelines for the VHAP; or

(iv) The source of the pollutant is a finishing material with a VOC content of no more than 1.0 kg VOC/kg solids (1.0 lb VOC/lb solids), as applied.

(5) If none of the above explanations are the reason for the increase, the owner or operator shall confer with the permitting authority to discuss the reason for the increase and whether there are practical and reasonable technology-based solutions for reducing the usage. The evaluation of whether a technology is reasonable and practical shall be based on cost, quality, and marketability of the product, whether the technology is being used successfully by other wood furniture manufacturing operations, or other criteria mutually agreed upon by the permitting authority and owner or operator. If there are no practical and reasonable solutions, the facility need take no further action. If there are solutions, the owner or operator shall develop a plan to reduce usage of the pollutant to the extent feasible. The plan shall address the approach to be used to reduce emissions, a timetable for implementing the plan, and a schedule for submitting notification of progress.
