
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.804 Compliance procedures and monitoring requirements.
####### Initial compliance.

(f)(1) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(1) or (d)(1) shall submit the results of the averaging calculation (Equation 1) for the first month with the initial compliance status report required by § 63.807(b). The first month's calculation shall include data for the entire month in which the compliance date falls. For example, if the source's compliance date is November 21, 1997, the averaging calculation shall include data from November 1, 1997 to November 30, 1997.

(2) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2) shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant stains, washcoats, sealers, topcoats, basecoats, enamels, and thinners, as applicable, are being used by the affected source.

(3) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that are complying through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(2) or (d)(2) and are applying coatings using continuous coaters shall demonstrate initial compliance by:

(i) Submitting an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir and the VHAP content as calculated from records, and compliant thinners are being used; or

(ii) Submitting an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant coatings, as determined by the VHAP content of the coating in the reservoir, are being used; the viscosity of the coating in the reservoir is being monitored; and compliant thinners are being used. The affected source shall also submit data that demonstrate that viscosity is an appropriate parameter for demonstrating compliance.

(4) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(1) or (b)(1) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (a)(3) or (d)(3) shall demonstrate initial compliance by:

(i) Submitting a monitoring plan that identifies each operating parameter to be monitored for the capture device and discusses why each parameter is appropriate for demonstrating continuous compliance;

(ii) Conducting an initial performance test as required under § 63.7 using the procedures and test methods listed in §§ 63.7 and 63.805 (c) and (d) or (e);

(iii) Calculating the overall control efficiency (R) following the procedures in § 63.805 (d) or (e); and

(iv) Determining those operating conditions critical to determining compliance and establishing one or more operating parameters that will ensure compliance with the standard.

(A) For compliance with a thermal incinerator, minimum combustion temperature shall be the operating parameter.

(B) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fixed catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed shall be the operating parameter.

(C) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the pressure drop across the catalyst bed shall be the operating parameters.

(D) For compliance with a carbon adsorber, the operating parameters shall be the total regeneration mass stream flow for each regeneration cycle and the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration, or the concentration level of organic compounds exiting the adsorber, unless the owner or operator requests and receives approval from the Administrator to establish other operating parameters.

(E) For compliance with a control device not listed in this section, one or more operating parameter values shall be established using the procedures identified in § 63.804(g)(4)(vi).

(v) Owners or operators complying with § 63.804(f)(4) shall calculate each site-specific operating parameter value as the arithmetic average of the maximum or minimum operating parameter values, as appropriate, that demonstrate compliance with the standards, during the three test runs required by § 63.805(c)(1).

(5) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(2) or (b)(2) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (b), (c)(1), or (e)(1), shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant contact adhesives are being used by the affected source.

(6) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(2)(ii) or (b)(2) that comply through the procedures established in § 63.804 (c)(2) or (e)(2), shall demonstrate initial compliance by:

(i) Submitting a monitoring plan that identifies each operating parameter to be monitored for the capture device and discusses why each parameter is appropriate for demonstrating continuous compliance;

(ii) Conducting an initial performance test as required under § 63.7 using the procedures and test methods listed in §§ 63.7 and 63.805 (c) and (d) or (e);

(iii) Calculating the overall control efficiency (R) following the procedures in § 63.805 (d) or (e); and

(iv) Determining those operating conditions critical to determining compliance and establishing one or more operating parameters that will ensure compliance with the standard.

(A) For compliance with a thermal incinerator, minimum combustion temperature shall be the operating parameter.

(B) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fixed catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature both upstream and downstream of the catalyst shall be the operating parameter.

(C) For compliance with a catalytic incinerator equipped with a fluidized catalyst bed, the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the pressure drop across the catalyst bed shall be the operating parameters.

(v) Owners or operators complying with § 63.804(f)(6) shall calculate each site-specific operating parameter value as the arithmetic average of the maximum or minimum operating values as appropriate, that demonstrate compliance with the standards, during the three test runs required by § 63.805(c)(1).

(7) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the provisions of § 63.802 (a)(3) or (b)(3) shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that compliant strippable spray booth coatings are being used by the affected source.

(8) Owners or operators of an affected source subject to the work practice standards in § 63.803 shall submit an initial compliance status report, as required by § 63.807(b), stating that the work practice implementation plan has been developed and procedures have been established for implementing the provisions of the plan.
