
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJ - National Emission Standards for Wood Furniture Manufacturing Operations
###### § 63.804 Compliance procedures and monitoring requirements.
####### General requirements.

(i)(A) You must monitor and collect data, and provide a site specific monitoring plan as required by §§ 63.804, 63.806 and 63.807.

(B) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times the affected source is operating and periods of malfunction. Any period for which data collection is required and the operation of the CEMS is not otherwise exempt and for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.

(C) You may not use data recorded during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. The owner or operator must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.

(ii) [Reserved]

(h) The owner or operator of an existing or new affected source subject to § 63.802(a)(4) or (b)(4) shall comply with those provisions by using either of the methods presented in § 63.804(h)(1) and (2) if complying with § 63.802(a)(4)(i) or (b)(4)(i) or by using the method presented in § 63.804(h)(3) if complying with § 63.802(a)(4)(ii) or (b)(4)(ii).

(1) Calculate total formaldehyde emissions from all finishing materials and contact adhesives used at the facility using Equation 5 and maintain a value of Fno more than 400 pounds per rolling 12 month period.

(2) Use a control system with an overall control efficiency (R) such that the calculated value of Fin Equation 6 is no more than 400 pounds per rolling 12 month period.

(3) Demonstrate compliance by use of coatings and contact adhesives only if they are low-formaldehyde coatings and contact adhesives maintaining a certified product data sheet for each coating and contact adhesive used, as required by § 63.806(b)(1), and submitting a compliance certification with the semiannual report required by § 63.807(c).

(i) The compliance certification shall state that low-formaldehyde coatings and contact adhesives, as applicable, have been used each day in the semiannual reporting period or should otherwise identify the periods of noncompliance and the reasons for noncompliance. An affected source is in violation of the standard whenever a coating or contact adhesive that is not low-formaldehyde, as demonstrated by records or by a sample of the coating or contact adhesive, is used. Use of a noncompliant coating or contact adhesive is a separate violation for each day the noncompliant coating or contact adhesive is used.

(ii) The compliance certification shall be signed by a responsible official of the company that owns or operates the affected source.
