
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KK - National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry
###### ยง 63.822 Definitions.
####### Work station

means a unit on which material is deposited onto a substrate.

(b) The symbols used in equations in this subpart are defined as follows:

(1) C= the monthly average, as-applied, organic HAP content of solids-containing material, i, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(2) C= the monthly average, as applied, solids content, of solids-containing material, i, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(3) C= the organic HAP content of ink or other solids-containing material, i, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(4) C= the organic HAP content of solvent j, added to solids-containing material i, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(5) C= the organic HAP content of solvent j, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) C= the solids content of ink or other material, i, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(8) C= the volatile matter content of ink or other material, i, expressed as a weight-fraction, kg/kg.

(9) E = the organic volatile matter control efficiency of the control device, percent.

(10) F = the organic volatile matter capture efficiency of the capture system, percent.

(11) G= the mass fraction of each solids containing material, i, which was applied at 20 weight-percent or greater solids content, on an as-applied basis, kg/kg.

(12) H = the monthly organic HAP emitted, kg.

(13) H= the monthly allowable organic HAP emissions, kg.

(14) H= the monthly average, as-applied, organic HAP content of all solids-containing materials applied at less than 0.04 kg organic HAP per kg of material applied, kg/kg.

(15) H= the monthly average, as-applied, organic HAP to solids ratio, kg organic HAP/kg solids applied.

(16) H= the as-applied, organic HAP to solids ratio of material i.

(17) L = the mass organic HAP emission rate per mass of solids applied, kg/kg.

(18) M= the sum of the mass of solids-containing material, i, applied on intermittently-controllable work stations operating in bypass mode and the mass of solids-containing material, i, applied on never-controlled work stations, in a month, kg.

(19) M= the sum of the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, applied on intermittently-controllable work stations operating in bypass mode and the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, applied on never-controlled work stations, in a month, kg.

(20) M= the sum of the mass of solids-containing material, i, applied on intermittently-controllable work stations operating in controlled mode and the mass of solids-containing material, i, applied on always-controlled work stations, in a month, kg.

(21) M= the sum of the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, applied on intermittently-controllable work stations operating in controlled mode and the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, applied on always-controlled work stations in a month, kg.

(22) [Reserved]

(23) M= the organic volatile matter mass flow rate at the inlet to the control device, kg/h.

(24) M= the organic volatile matter mass flow rate at the outlet of the control device, kg/h.

(25) M= the mass of organic HAP used in a month, kg.

(26) M= the mass of ink or other material, i, applied in a month, kg.

(27) M= the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, added to solids-containing material, i, in a month, kg.

(28) M= the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, applied in a month, kg.

(29) M= the mass of solvent, thinner, reducer, diluent, or other non-solids-containing material, j, added to solids-containing materials which were applied at less than 20 weight-percent solids content, on an as-applied basis, in a month, kg.

(30) M= the mass of volatile matter recovered in a month, kg.

(31) M= the mass of volatile matter, including water, used in a month, kg.

(32) [Reserved]

(33) n = the number of organic compounds in the vent gas.

(34) p = the number of different inks, coatings, varnishes, adhesives, primers, and other materials applied in a month.

(35) q = the number of different solvents, thinners, reducers, diluents, or other non-solids-containing materials applied in a month.

(36) [Reserved]

(37) R = the overall organic HAP control efficiency, percent.

(38) R= the overall effective organic HAP control efficiency for publication rotogravure, percent.

(39) R= the organic volatile matter collection and recovery efficiency, percent.

(40) S = the mass organic HAP emission rate per mass of material applied, kg/kg.

(41) 0.0416 = conversion factor for molar volume, kg-mol/m(@ 293 K and 760 mmHg).
