
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KK - National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry
###### § 63.824 Standards: Publication rotogravure printing.

(a) Each owner or operator of any publication rotogravure printing affected source that is subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with these requirements on and after the compliance dates as specified in § 63.826 of this subpart.

(b) Each publication rotogravure affected source shall limit emissions of organic HAP to no more than eight percent of the total volatile matter used each month. The emission limitation may be achieved by overall control of at least 92 percent of organic HAP used, by substitution of non-HAP materials for organic HAP, or by a combination of capture and control technologies and substitution of materials. To demonstrate compliance, each owner or operator shall follow the procedure in paragraph (b)(1) of this section when emissions from the affected source are controlled by a solvent recovery device, the procedure in paragraph (b)(2) of this section when emissions from the affected source are controlled by an oxidizer, and the procedure in paragraph (b)(3) of this section when no control device is used.

(1) Each owner or operator using a solvent recovery device to control emissions shall demonstrate compliance by showing that the HAP emission limitation is achieved by following the procedures in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section:

(i) Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as follows:

(A) Measure the mass of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent, and other material used by the affected source during the month.

(B) Determine the organic HAP content of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent and other material used by the affected source during the month following the procedure in § 63.827(b)(1).

(C) Determine the volatile matter content, including water, of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent, and other material used by the affected source during the month following the procedure in § 63.827(c)(1).

(D) Install, calibrate, maintain and operate, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile matter recovered by the solvent recovery device on a monthly basis. The device shall be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-2.0 percent.

(E) Measure the amount of volatile matter recovered for the month.

(F) Calculate the overall effective organic HAP control efficiency (R) for the month using Equation 1:

(G) The affected source is in compliance for the month, if Ris at least 92 percent each month.

(ii) Use continuous emission monitors, conduct an initial performance test of capture efficiency, and continuously monitor a site specific operating parameter to assure capture efficiency as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (b)(1)(ii)(E) of this section:

(A) Install continuous emission monitors to collect the data necessary to calculate the total organic volatile matter mass flow in the gas stream entering and the total organic volatile matter mass flow in the gas stream exiting the solvent recovery device for each month such that the percent control efficiency (E) of the solvent recovery device can be calculated for the month. This requires continuous emission monitoring of the total organic volatile matter concentration in the gas stream entering the solvent recovery device, the total organic volatile matter concentration in the gas stream exiting the solvent recovery device, and the volumetric gas flow rate through the solvent recovery device. A single continuous volumetric gas flow measurement should be sufficient for a solvent recovery device since the inlet and outlet volumetric gas flow rates for a solvent recovery device are essentially equal. Each month's individual inlet concentration values and corresponding individual gas flow rate values are multiplied and then summed to get the total organic volatile matter mass flow in the gas stream entering the solvent recovery device for the month. Each month's individual outlet concentration values and corresponding individual gas flow rate values are multiplied and then summed to get the total organic volatile matter mass flow in the gas stream exiting the solvent recovery device for the month.

(B) Determine the percent capture efficiency (F) of the capture system according to § 63.827(e).

(C) Calculate the overall effective organic HAP control efficiency (R) achieved for each month using Equation 2.

(D) Install, calibrate, operate and maintain the instrumentation necessary to measure continuously the site-specific operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.828(a)(5) whenever a publication rotogravure printing press is operated.

(E) The affected source is in compliance with the requirement for the month if Ris at least 92 percent, and the capture device is operated at an average value greater than, or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter value established in accordance with § 63.828(a)(5) for each three-hour period.

(2) Each owner or operator using an oxidizer to control emissions shall demonstrate compliance by showing that the HAP emission limitation is achieved by following the procedure in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) of this section:

(i) Demonstrate initial compliance through performance tests and continuing compliance through continuous monitoring as follows:

(A) Determine the oxidizer destruction efficiency (E) using the procedure in § 63.827(d).

(B) Determine the capture efficiency (F) using the procedure in § 63.827(e).

(C) [Reserved]

(D) Calculate the overall effective organic HAP control efficiency (R) achieved using Equation 2.

(E) The affected source is in initial compliance if Ris at least 92 percent. Demonstration of continuing compliance is achieved by continuous monitoring of an appropriate oxidizer operating parameter in accordance with § 63.828(a)(4), and by continuous monitoring of an appropriate capture system monitoring parameter in accordance with § 63.828(a)(5). The affected source is in continuing compliance if the capture device is operated at an average value greater than or less than (as appropriate) the operating parameter value established in accordance with § 63.828(a)(5), and
