
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KK - National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry
###### § 63.830 Reporting requirements.

(a) The reporting provisions of 40 CFR part 63 subpart A of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 1 of this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section to the Administrator:

(1) An initial notification required in § 63.9(b).

(i) Initial notifications for existing sources shall be submitted no later than one year before the compliance date specified in § 63.826(a), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(ii) Initial notifications for new and reconstructed sources shall be submitted as required by § 63.9(b).

(iii) For the purpose of this subpart, a Title V or part 70 permit application may be used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b), provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required by § 63.9(b), and the State to which the permit application has been submitted has an approved operating permit program under part 70 of this chapter and has received delegation of authority from the EPA.

(iv) Permit applications shall be submitted by the same due dates as those specified for the initial notifications.

(2) A Notification of Performance Tests specified in §§ 63.7 and 63.9(e) of this part. This notification, and the site-specific test plan required under § 63.7(c)(2) shall identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during the performance test is maintained. The operating parameter identified in the site-specific test plan shall be considered to be approved unless explicitly disapproved, or unless comments received from the Administrator require monitoring of an alternate parameter.

(3) A Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.9(h) of this part.

(4) Performance test reports specified in § 63.10(d)(2) of this part.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) A summary report specified in § 63.10(e)(3) of this part shall be submitted on a semi-annual basis (i.e., once every 6-month period). These summary reports are required even if the affected source does not have any control devices or does not take the performance of any control devices into account in demonstrating compliance with the emission limitations in § 63.824 or § 63.825. In addition to a report of operating parameter exceedances as required by § 63.10(e)(3)(i), the summary report shall include, as applicable:

(i) Exceedances of the standards in §§ 63.824-63.825.

(ii) Exceedances of either of the criteria of § 63.820(a)(2).

(iii) Exceedances of the criterion of § 63.821(b)(1) and the criterion of § 63.821(b)(2) in the same month.

(iv) Exceedances of the criterion of § 63.821(a)(2)(ii)(A).

(v) The number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.823(b), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.
