
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KK - National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry
###### § 63.829 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The recordkeeping provisions of 40 CFR part 63 subpart A of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 1 of this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section on a monthly basis in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(b)(1) of this part:

(1) Records specified in § 63.10(b)(2) of this part, of all measurements needed to demonstrate compliance with this standard, such as continuous emission monitor data, control device and capture system operating parameter data, material usage, HAP usage, volatile matter usage, and solids usage that support data that the source is required to report.

(2) Records specified in § 63.10(b)(3) of this part for each applicability determination performed by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.820(a) of this subpart, and

(3) Records specified in § 63.10(c) of this part for each continuous monitoring system operated by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.828(a) of this subpart.

(c) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall maintain records of all liquid-liquid material balances performed in accordance with the requirements of §§ 63.824-63.825 of this subpart. The records shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(b) of this part.

(d) The owner or operator of each facility which commits to the criteria of § 63.820(a)(2) shall maintain records of all required measurements and calculations needed to demonstrate compliance with these criteria, including the mass of all HAP containing materials used and the mass fraction of HAP present in each HAP containing material used, on a monthly basis.

(e) The owner or operator of each facility which meets the limits and criteria of § 63.821(b)(1) shall maintain records as required in paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The owner or operator of each facility which meets the limits and criteria of § 63.821(b)(2) shall maintain records as required in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. Owners or operators shall maintain these records for five years, and upon request, submit them to the Administrator.

(1) For each facility which meets the criteria of § 63.821(b)(1), the owner or operator shall maintain records of the total mass of each material applied on product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing presses during each month.

(2) For each facility which meets the criteria of § 63.821(b)(2), the owner or operator shall maintain records of the total mass and organic HAP content of each material applied on product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing presses during each month.

(f) The owner or operator choosing to exclude from an affected source, a product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic press which meets the limits and criteria of § 63.821(a)(2)(ii)(A) shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section for five years and submit them to the Administrator upon request:

(1) The total mass of each material applied each month on the press, including all inboard and outboard stations, and

(2) The total mass of each material applied each month on the press by product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing operations.
