
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KK - National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry
###### § 63.828 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Following the date on which the initial performance test of a control device is completed, to demonstrate continuing compliance with the standard, the owner or operator shall monitor and inspect each control device required to comply with §§ 63.824-63.825 to ensure proper operation and maintenance by implementing the applicable requirements in paragraph (a)(1) through (a)(5) of this section.

(1) Owners or operators of product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic presses with intermittently-controllable work stations shall follow one of the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iv) of this section for each dryer associated with such a work station:

(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications a flow control position indicator that provides a record indicating whether the exhaust stream from the dryer was directed to the control device or was diverted from the control device. The time and flow control position must be recorded at least once per hour, as well as every time the flow direction is changed. The flow control position indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the exhaust stream away from the control device to the atmosphere.

(ii) Secure any bypass line valve in the closed position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration; a visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve or damper is maintained in the closed position and the exhaust stream is not diverted through the bypass line.

(iii) Ensure that any bypass line valve or damper is in the closed position through continuous monitoring of valve position. The monitoring system shall be inspected at least once every month to ensure that it is functioning properly.

(iv) Use an automatic shutdown system in which the press is stopped when flow is diverted away from the control device to any bypass line. The automatic system shall be inspected at least once every month to ensure that it is functioning properly.

(2) Compliance monitoring shall be subject to the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) All continuous emission monitors shall comply with performance specifications (PS) 8 or 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate. The requirements of appendix F of 40 CFR part 60 shall also be followed. In conducting the quarterly audits required by appendix F, owners or operators must challenge the monitors with compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled.

(ii) All temperature monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturers specifications. The calibration of the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator shall be verified every three months; or the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator shall be replaced. The replacement shall be done either if the owner or operator chooses not to perform the calibration, or if the equipment cannot be calibrated properly.

(3) An owner or operator complying with §§ 63.824-63.825 through continuous emission monitoring of a control device shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain continuous emission monitors to measure total organic volatile matter concentration and volumetric gas flow rate in accordance with § 63.824(b)(1)(ii), § 63.825(b)(2)(ii), § 63.825(c)(2), or § 63.825(d)(2), as applicable.

(4) An owner or operator complying with the requirements of §§ 63.824-63.825 through the use of an oxidizer and demonstrating continuous compliance through monitoring of an oxidizer operating parameter shall:

(i) For an oxidizer other than a catalytic oxidizer, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C or +/-1 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater. The thermocouple or temperature sensor shall be installed in the combustion chamber at a location in the combustion zone.

(ii) For a catalytic oxidizer, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C or +/-1 &#xB0;C, whichever is greater. The thermocouple or temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet.

(5) An owner or operator complying with the requirements of §§ 63.824-63.825 through the use of a control device and demonstrating continuous compliance by monitoring an operating parameter to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during the initial compliance test is maintained, shall:

(i) Submit to the Administrator with the compliance status report required by § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions, a plan that

(A) Identifies the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during the initial compliance test is maintained,

(B) Discusses why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance, and

(C) Identifies the specific monitoring procedures;

(ii) Set the operating parameter value, or range of values, that demonstrate compliance with §§ 63.824-63.825, and

(iii) Conduct monitoring in accordance with the plan submitted to the Administrator unless comments received from the Administrator require an alternate monitoring scheme.

(b) Any excursion from the required operating parameters which are monitored in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section, unless otherwise excused, shall be considered a violation of the emission standard.
