
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KK - National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry
###### § 63.827 Performance test methods.

Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(a) An owner or operator using a control device to comply with the requirements of §§ 63.824-63.825 is not required to conduct an initial performance test to demonstrate compliance if one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section are met:

(1) A control device that is in operation prior to May 30, 1996, does not need to be tested if

(i) It is equipped with continuous emission monitors for determining total organic volatile matter concentration and the volumetric gas flow rate, and capture efficiency has been determined in accordance with the requirements of this subpart, such that an overall organic HAP control efficiency can be calculated, and

(ii) The continuous emission monitors are used to demonstrate continuous compliance in accordance with § 63.824(b)(1)(ii), § 63.825(b)(2)(ii), § 63.825(c)(2), or § 63.825(d)(2), as applicable, and § 63.828, or

(2) The owner or operator has met the requirements of either § 63.7(e)(2)(iv) or § 63.7(h), or

(3) The control device is a solvent recovery system and the owner or operator chooses to comply by means of a monthly liquid-liquid material balance.

(b) Determination of the weight fraction organic HAP of inks, coatings, varnishes, adhesives, primers, solvents, thinners, reducers, diluents, and other materials used by a publication rotogravure affected source shall be conducted according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Determination of the weight fraction organic HAP of inks, coatings, varnishes, adhesives, primers, solvents, thinners, reducers, diluents, and other materials applied by a product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing affected source shall be conducted according to paragraph (b)(2) of this section. If the weight fraction organic HAP values are not determined using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, the owner or operator must submit an alternative test method for determining their values for approval by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.7(f). The recovery efficiency of the test method must be determined for all of the target organic HAP and a correction factor, if necessary, must be determined and applied.

(1) Each owner or operator of a publication rotogravure affected source shall determine the weight fraction organic HAP of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent, and other material used by following one of the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) The owner or operator may test the material in accordance with Method 311 of appendix A of this part. The Method 311 determination may be performed by the owner or operator of the affected source, the supplier of the material, or an independent third party. The organic HAP content determined by Method 311 must be calculated according to the criteria and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Include each organic HAP determined to be present at greater than or equal to 0.1 weight percent for Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-defined carcinogens as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and greater than or equal to 1.0 weight percent for other organic HAP compounds.

(B) Express the weight fraction of each organic HAP included according to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.3791).

(C) Calculate the total weight fraction of organic HAP in the tested material by summing the weight fraction of each organic HAP included according to paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) of this section and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).

(ii) The owner or operator may determine the weight fraction volatile matter of the material in accordance with § 63.827(c)(1) and use this value for the weight fraction organic HAP for all compliance purposes.

(iii) The owner or operator may use formulation data to determine the weight fraction organic HAP of a material. Formulation data may be provided to the owner or operator on a CPDS by the supplier of the material or an independent third party. Formulation data may be used provided that the weight fraction organic HAP is calculated according to the criteria and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section. In the event of an inconsistency between the formulation data and the result of Method 311 of appendix A of this part, where the test result is higher, the Method 311 data will take precedence unless, after consultation, the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.

(A) For each raw material used in making the material, include each organic HAP present in that raw material at greater than or equal to 0.1 weight percent for OSHA-defined carcinogens as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and greater than or equal to 1.0 weight percent for other organic HAP compounds. The weight fraction of each such organic HAP in each raw material must be determined by Method 311 of appendix A of this part, by an alternate method approved by the Administrator, or from a CPDS provided by the raw material supplier or an independent third party. The weight fraction of each such organic HAP in each raw material must be expressed as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1291).

(B) For each raw material used in making the material, the weight fraction contribution of each organic HAP, which is included according to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, in that raw material to the weight fraction organic HAP of the material is calculated by multiplying the weight fraction, truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1291), of that organic HAP in that raw material times the weight fraction of that raw material, truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.2246), in the material. The product of each such multiplication is to be truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1291 times 0.2246 yields 0.02899586 which truncates to 0.0289).

(C) For each organic HAP which is included according to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section, the total weight fraction of that organic HAP in the material is calculated by adding the weight fraction contribution of that organic HAP from each raw material in which that organic HAP is included according to paragraph (b)(1)(iii)(A) of this section. The sum of each such addition must be expressed to four places after the decimal point.

(D) The total weight fraction of organic HAP in the material is the sum of the counted individual organic HAP weight fractions. This sum must be truncated to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).

(2) Each owner or operator of a product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing affected source shall determine the organic HAP weight fraction of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent, and other material applied by following one of the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) The owner or operator may test the material in accordance with Method 311 of appendix A of this part. The Method 311 determination may be performed by the owner or operator of the affected source, the supplier of the material, or an independent third party. The organic HAP content determined by Method 311 must be calculated according to the criteria and procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Include each organic HAP determined to be present at greater than or equal to 0.1 weight percent for OSHA-defined carcinogens as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and greater than or equal to 1.0 weight percent for other organic HAP compounds.

(B) Express the weight fraction of each organic HAP included according to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.3791).

(C) Calculate the total weight fraction of organic HAP in the tested material by summing the weight fraction of each organic HAP included according to paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) of this section and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).

(ii) The owner or operator may determine the weight fraction volatile matter of the material in accordance with § 63.827(c)(2) and use this value for the weight fraction organic HAP for all compliance purposes.

(iii) The owner or operator may use formulation data to determine the weight fraction organic HAP of a material. Formulation data may be provided to the owner or operator on a CPDS by the supplier of the material or an independent third party. Formulation data may be used provided that the weight fraction organic HAP is calculated according to the criteria and procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section. In the event of an inconsistency between the formulation data and the result of Method 311 of appendix A of this part, where the test result is higher, the Method 311 data will take precedence unless, after consultation, the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.

(A) For each raw material used in making the material, include each organic HAP present in that raw material at greater than or equal to 0.1 weight percent for OSHA-defined carcinogens as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and greater than or equal to 1.0 weight percent for other organic HAP compounds. The weight fraction of each such organic HAP in each raw material must be determined by Method 311 of appendix A of this part, by an alternate method approved by the Administrator, or from a CPDS provided by the raw material supplier or an independent third party. The weight fraction of each such organic HAP in each raw material must be expressed as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1291).

(B) For each raw material used in making the material, the weight fraction contribution of each organic HAP, which is included according to paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, in that raw material to the weight fraction organic HAP of the material is calculated by multiplying the weight fraction, truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1291), of that organic HAP in that raw material times the weight fraction of that raw material, truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.2246), in the material. The product of each such multiplication is truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1291 times 0.2246 yields 0.02899586 which truncates to 0.0289).

(C) For each organic HAP which is included according to paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, the total weight fraction of that organic HAP in the material is calculated by adding the weight fraction contribution of that organic HAP from each raw material in which that organic HAP is included according to paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. The sum of each such addition must be expressed to four places after the decimal point.

(D) The total weight fraction of organic HAP in the material is the sum of the counted individual organic HAP weight fractions. This sum is to be truncated to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).

(c) Determination of the weight fraction volatile matter content of inks, coatings, varnishes, adhesives, primers, solvents, reducers, thinners, diluents, and other materials used by a publication rotogravure affected source shall be conducted according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section. Determination of the weight fraction volatile matter content and weight fraction solids content of inks, coatings, varnishes, adhesives, primers, solvents, reducers, thinners, diluents, and other materials applied by a product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing affected source shall be conducted according to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(1) Each owner or operator of a publication rotogravure affected source shall determine the volatile matter weight fraction of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent, reducer, thinner, diluent, and other material used by following the procedures in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, or by using formulation data as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(i) Determine the volatile matter weight fraction of the material using Method 24A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. The Method 24A determination may be performed by the owner or operator of the affected source, the supplier of the material, or an independent third party. The Method 24A result shall be truncated to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763). If these values cannot be determined using Method 24A, the owner or operator shall submit an alternative technique for determining their values for approval by the Administrator.

(2) Each owner or operator of a product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic printing affected source shall determine the volatile matter weight fraction and solids weight fraction of each ink, coating, varnish, adhesive, primer, solvent, reducer, thinner, diluent, and other material applied by following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, or by using formulation data as described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(i) Determine the volatile matter weight fraction of the material using Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. The Method 24 determination may be performed by the owner or operator of the affected source, the supplier of the material, or an independent third party. The Method 24 result shall be truncated to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763). If these values cannot be determined using Method 24, the owner or operator shall submit an alternative technique for determining their values for approval by the Administrator.

(ii) Calculate the solids weight fraction Method 24 result by subtracting the volatile matter weight fraction Method 24 result from 1.000. This calculation may be performed by the owner or operator, the supplier of the material, or an independent third party.

(3) The owner or operator may use formulation data to determine the volatile matter weight fraction or solids weight fraction of a material. Formulation data may be provided to the owner or operator on a CPDS by the supplier of the material or an independent third party. The volatile matter weight fraction and solids weight fraction shall be truncated to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763). In the event of any inconsistency between the formulation data and the result of Method 24 or Method 24A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, where the test result for volatile matter weight fraction is higher or the test result for solids weight fraction is lower, the applicable test method data will take precedence unless, after consultation, the owner or operator can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data are correct.

(d) A performance test of a control device to determine destruction efficiency for the purpose of meeting the requirements of §§ 63.824-63.825 shall be conducted by the owner or operator in accordance with the following:

(1) An initial performance test to establish the destruction efficiency of an oxidizer and the associated combustion zone temperature for a thermal oxidizer and the associated catalyst bed inlet temperature for a catalytic oxidizer shall be conducted and the data reduced in accordance with the following reference methods and procedures:

(i) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used for sample and velocity traverses to determine sampling locations.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used to determine gas volumetric flow rate.

(iii) Method 3 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight.

(iv) Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used to determine stack gas moisture.

(v) Methods 2, 2A, 3, and 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be performed, as applicable, at least twice during each test period.

(vi) Method 25 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine organic volatile matter concentration, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(1)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section. The owner or operator shall submit notice of the intended test method to the Administrator for approval along with notice of the performance test required under § 63.7(c). The same method must be used for both the inlet and outlet measurements. The owner or operator may use Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, if (A) An exhaust gas organic volatile matter concentration of 50 parts per million by volume (ppmv) or less as carbon is required to comply with the standards of §§ 63.824-63.825, or

(B) The organic volatile matter concentration at the inlet to the control system and the required level of control are such to result in exhaust gas organic volatile matter concentrations of 50 ppmv or less as carbon, or

(C) Because of the high efficiency of the control device, the anticipated organic volatile matter concentration at the control device exhaust is 50 ppmv or less as carbon, regardless of inlet concentration, or

(D) The control device is not an oxidizer.

(vii) Each performance test shall consist of three separate runs; each run conducted for at least one hour under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating under normal operating conditions. For the purpose of determining organic volatile matter concentrations and mass flow rates, the average of results of all runs shall apply.

(viii) Organic volatile matter mass flow rates shall be determined using Equation 20:

(ix) Emission control device efficiency shall be determined using Equation 21:

(2) The owner or operator shall record such process information as may be necessary to determine the conditions of the performance test. Operations during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test.

(3) For the purpose of determining the value of the oxidizer operating parameter that will demonstrate continuing compliance, the time-weighted average of the values recorded during the performance test shall be computed. For an oxidizer other than catalytic oxidizer, the owner or operator shall establish as the operating parameter the minimum combustion temperature. For a catalytic oxidizer, the owner or operator shall establish as the operating parameter the minimum gas temperature upstream of the catalyst bed. These minimum temperatures are the operating parameter values that demonstrate continuing compliance with the requirements of §§ 63.824-63.825.

(e) A performance test to determine the capture efficiency of each capture system venting organic emissions to a control device for the purpose of meeting the requirements of § 63.824(b)(1)(ii), § 63.824(b)(2), § 63.825(c)(2), § 63.825(d)(1)-(2), § 63.825(f)(2)-(4), or § 63.825(h)(2)-(3) shall be conducted by the owner or operator in accordance with the following:

(1) You may assume your capture efficiency equals 100 percent if your capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE). You must confirm that your capture system is a PTE by demonstrating that it meets the requirements of section 6 of Method 204 of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M, and that all exhaust gases from the enclosure are delivered to a control device.

(2) You may determine capture efficiency according to the protocols for testing with temporary total enclosures that are specified in Methods 204 and 204A through F of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M. You may exclude never controlled work stations from such capture efficiency determinations.

(f) As an alternative to the procedures specified in § 63.827(e) an owner or operator required to conduct a capture efficiency test may use any capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the Data Quality Objective (DQO) or the Lower Confidence Limit (LCL) approach as described in Appendix A of this subpart. The owner or operator may exclude never-controlled work stations from such capture efficiency determinations.
