
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### § 63.845 Incorporation of new source performance standards for potroom groups.
####### Procedures to determine TF emissions.

(g)The owner or operator shall determine TF emissions for the potline using the following procedures:

(1) Determine the emission rate of TF in kg/Mg (lb/ton) from sampling secondary emissions and the primary control system for all new potroom groups, modified potroom groups, and reconstructed potroom groups using the procedures, equations, and test methods in §§ 63.847, 63.848, and 63.849.

(2) Determine the emission rate of TF in kg/Mg (lb/ton) from sampling secondary emissions and the primary control system for potroom groups or sections of potroom groups within the potline that are not new potroom groups, modified potroom groups, or reconstructed potroom groups according to paragraphs (g)(2)(i) or (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Determine the mass emission rate of TF in kg/Mg (lb/ton) from at least one potroom group within the potline that is not a new potroom group, modified potroom group, or reconstructed potroom group using the procedures, equations, and test methods in §§ 63.847, 63.848, and 63.849, or

(ii) Use the results of the testing required by paragraph (g)(1) of this section to represent the entire potline based on a demonstration that the results are representative of the entire potline. Representativeness shall be based on showing that all of the potroom groups associated with the potline are substantially equivalent in terms of their structure, operability, type of emissions, volume of emissions, and concentration of emissions.

(3) Calculate the TF emissions for the potline in kg/Mg (lb/ton) based on the production-weighted average of the TF emission rates from paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section using the following equation:

Compliance is demonstrated when TF emissions for the potline meet the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) As an alternative to sampling as required in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section, the owner or operator may perform representative sampling of the entire potline subject to the approval of the applicable regulatory authority. Such sampling shall provide coverage by the sampling equipment of both the new, modified, or reconstructed potroom group and the balance of the potline. The coverage for the new, modified, or reconstructed potroom group must meet the criteria specified in the reference methods in § 63.849. TF emissions shall be determined for the potline using the procedures, equations, and test methods in §§ 63.847, 63.848, and 63.849. Compliance is demonstrated when TF emissions for the potline meet the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.
