
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### ยง 63.847 Compliance provisions.
####### Test plan.

(b)The owner or operator shall prepare a site-specific test plan prior to the initial performance test according to the requirements of ยง 63.7(c) of this part. The test plan must include procedures for conducting the initial performance test and for subsequent performance tests required in ยง 63.848 for emission monitoring. In addition to the information required by ยง 63.7, the test plan shall include:

(1) Procedures to ensure a minimum of three runs are performed annually for the primary control system for each source;

(2) For a source with a single control device exhausted through multiple stacks, procedures to ensure that at least three runs are performed annually by a representative sample of the stacks satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authority;

(3) For multiple control devices on a single source, procedures to ensure that at least one run is performed annually for each control device by a representative sample of the stacks satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authority;

(4) Procedures for sampling single stacks associated with multiple anode bake furnaces;

(5) For plants with roof scrubbers, procedures for rotating sampling among the scrubbers or other procedures to obtain representative samples as approved by the applicable regulatory authority;

(6) [Reserved]

(7) For a SWPB potline, procedures to ensure that the average of the sampling results for two fans (or two scrubbers) per potline is used for each run; and

(8) Procedures for establishing the frequency of testing to ensure that at least one run is performed before the 15th of the month, at least one run is performed after the 15th of the month, and that there are at least 6 days between two of the runs during the month, or that secondary emissions are measured according to an alternate schedule satisfactory to the applicable regulatory authority.

(c) Following approval of the site-specific test plan, the owner or operator must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance according to the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section. If a performance test has been conducted on the primary control system for potlines, the anode bake furnace, the paste production plant, or (if applicable) the pitch storage tank control device within the 12 months prior to the compliance date, the results of that performance test may be used to demonstrate initial compliance. The owner or operator must conduct the performance test:

(1) During the first month following the compliance date for an existing potline (or potroom group), anode bake furnace, paste production plant or pitch storage tank.

(2) By the date determined according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section for a new or reconstructed potline, anode bake furnace, or pitch storage tank (for which the owner or operator elects to conduct an initial performance test):

(i) By the 180th day following startup for a potline or potroom group. The 180-day period starts when the first pot in a potline or potroom group is energized.

(ii) By the 45th day from the start of the second anode bake cycle (but no later than the 180th day from the startup of the anode bake furnace).

(iii) By the 30th day following startup for a pitch storage tank. The 30-day period starts when the tank is first used to store pitch.

(iv) By the 30th day following startup of a paste production plant. The 30-day period starts when the paste production plant produces green anodes.

(3) By the date determined according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i), (ii), (iii) or (iv) of this section for an existing potline, anode bake furnace, paste production plant, or pitch storage tank that was shut down at the time compliance would have otherwise been required and is subsequently restarted:

(i) By the 180th day following startup for a potline or potroom group. The 180-day period starts when the first pot in a potline or potroom group is energized.

(ii) By the 45th day from the start of the second anode bake cycle (but no later than the 180th day from the startup of the anode bake furnace).

(iii) By the 30th day following startup of a paste production plant. The 30-day period starts when the paste production plant produces green anodes.

(iv) By the 30th day following startup for a pitch storage tank. The 30-day period starts when the tank is first used to store pitch.
