
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### § 63.847 Compliance provisions.
####### Compliance dates.

(a)The owner operator of a primary aluminum reduction plant must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable compliance date in paragraph (a)(1), (a)(2) or (a)(4) of this section:

(1) Except as noted in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the compliance date for an owner or operator of an existing plant or source subject to the provisions of this subpart is October 7, 1999.

(2) The compliance dates for existing plants and sources are:

(i) October 15, 2015 for the malfunction provisions of § 63.850(d)(2) and (e)(4)(xvi) and (xvii) and the electronic reporting provisions of § 63.850(b), (c) and (f) which became effective October 15, 2015.

(ii) October 17, 2016 for potline work practice standards in § 63.854 and COS emission limit provisions of § 63.843(e); for anode bake furnace startup practices in § 63.847(l) and PM emission limits in § 63.843(c)(3); for Soderberg potline PM and PCB emission limits in § 63.843(a)(3)(v) and (a)(6); and for paste production plant startup practices in § 63.847(m) and PM emission limits in § 63.843(b)(4) which became effective October 15, 2015.

(iii) October 16, 2017 for prebake potline POM emission limits in § 63.843(a)(2)(iv) through (vii); for Soderberg potline POM, As and Ni emission limits in §§ 63.843(a)(2)(iii), (a)(4) and (5); for prebake potline PM emission limits in § 63.843(a)(3); for anode bake furnace Hg emission limits in § 63.843(c)(4); and for the pitch storage tank POM limit provisions of § 63.843(d) which became effective October 15, 2015.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Upon startup, for an owner or operator of a new or reconstructed source.

(5) Except as provided in paragraphs (a)(6) and (7) of this section, a new affected source is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after September 26, 1996.

(6) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for PM, a new affected potline, anode bake furnace or paste production plant is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.

(7) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for POM and COS, a new affected prebake potline is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.

(8) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for As, Ni and POM, a new affected Soderberg potline is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.

(9) For the purposes of compliance with the emission standards for Hg, a new affected anode bake furnace is one for which construction or reconstruction commenced after December 8, 2014.
