
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### § 63.847 Compliance provisions.
####### PCB emissions from VSS2 Potlines and from new Soderberg potlines.

(7)(i) For each VSS2 potline, and for each new Soderberg potline, the owner or operator must measure and record the emission rate of PCB exiting the primary emission control system and the rate of secondary emissions of PCB exiting through each roof monitor, or for a plant with roof scrubbers, exiting through the scrubbers. Using the equation in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must compute and record the average of at least three runs each year for secondary emissions and at least three runs each year for primary emissions.

(ii) Compliance is demonstrated when the emissions of PCB are equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.843(a)(6) or § 63.844(a)(6).

(e) The owner or operator shall determine compliance with the applicable TF, POM, PM, nickel, arsenic or PCB emission limits using the following equations and procedures:

(1) Compute the emission rate (E) of TF, POM, PM, nickel, arsenic or PCB from each potline using Equation 1:

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Compute the emission rate (E) of TF, POM or PM from each anode bake furnace using Equation 2,

(4) Compliance with the anode bake furnace Hg emission standard is demonstrated if the Hg concentration of the exhaust from the anode bake furnace control device is equal to or less than the applicable concentration standard in § 63.843(c)(4) or § 63.844(c)(4).

(5) Determine the weight of the aluminum tapped from the potline and the weight of the green anode material placed in the anode bake furnace using the monitoring devices required in § 63.848(j).

(6) Determine the aluminum production rate (P) by dividing the number of hours in the calendar month into the weight of aluminum tapped from the potline during the calendar month that includes the three runs of a performance test.

(7) Determine the rate of green anode material introduced into the furnace by dividing the number of operating hours in the calendar month into the weight of green anode material used during the calendar month in which the performance test was conducted.

(8) Compute the emission rate (E) of PM from each paste production plant using Equation 3,
