
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### ยง 63.847 Compliance provisions.
####### Startup of anode bake furnaces.

(l)The owner or operator must develop a written startup plan as described in paragraphs (l)(1) through (4) of this section, to be followed during startup periods of bake furnaces. Compliance with the startup plan will be demonstrated through site inspection(s) and review of site records by the regulatory authority. The written startup plan must contain specific procedures to be followed during startup periods of anode bake furnaces, including the following:

(1) A requirement to develop an anode bake furnace startup schedule.

(2) Records of time, date, duration of anode bake furnace startup and any nonroutine actions taken during startup of the furnaces.

(3) A requirement that the associated emission control system be operating within normal parametric limits prior to startup of the anode bake furnace.

(4) A requirement to take immediate actions to stop the startup process as soon as practicable and continue to comply with ยง 63.843(f) or ยง 63.844(f) if the associated emission control system is off line at any time during startup. The anode bake furnace restart may resume once the associated emission control system is back on line and operating within normal parametric limits.
