
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### ยง 63.848 Emission monitoring requirements.
####### Monitoring parameters for emission control devices.

(f)The owner or operator shall install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system for each emission control device. The owner or operator shall submit for approval by the regulatory authority a description of the parameter(s) to be monitored, the operating limits, and the monitoring frequency to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained. An explanation of the criteria used for selection of the parameter(s), the operating limits, and the monitoring frequency, including how these relate to emission control also shall be submitted to the regulatory authority. Except as provided in paragraph (l) of this section, the following monitoring devices shall be installed:

(1) For dry alumina scrubbers, devices for the measurement of alumina flow and air flow;

(2) For dry coke scrubbers, devices for the measurement of coke flow and air flow;

(3) For wet scrubbers as the primary control system, devices for the measurement of water flow and air flow;

(4) For electrostatic precipitators, devices for the measurement of voltage and secondary current; and

(5) For wet roof scrubbers for secondary emission control:

(i) A device for the measurement of total water flow; and

(ii) The owner or operator shall inspect each control device at least once each operating day to ensure the control device is operating properly and record the results of each inspection.

(6) For emission sources control device exhaust streams for which the owner or operator chooses to demonstrate continuous compliance through bag leak detection systems you must install and operate a bag leak detection system according to the requirements in paragraph (o) of this section, and you must set your operating limit such that the sum of the durations of bag leak detection system alarms does not exceed 5 percent of the process operating time during a 6-month period.

(7) For emission sources control device exhaust streams for which the owner or operator chooses to demonstrate continuous compliance through a PM CEMS, you must install and operate a PM CEMS according to the requirements in paragraph (p) of this section. You must determine continuous compliance averaged on a rolling 30 operating day basis, updated at the end of each new operating day. All valid hours of data from 30 successive operating days shall be included in the arithmetic average. Compliance is demonstrated when the 30 operating day PM emissions are equal to or less than the applicable emission limits in ยง 63.843, ยง 63.844, or ยง 63.846.

(g) The owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source that is subject to a PM limit shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (f)(6) or (7) of this section. The owner or operator of an existing affected source that is equipped with a control device and is subject to a PM limit shall:

(1) Install and operate a bag leak detection system in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section; or

(2) Install and operate a PM CEMS in accordance with paragraph (f)(7) of this section; or

(3) Visually inspect the exhaust stack(s) of each fabric filter using Method 22 on a twice daily basis (at least 4 hours apart) for evidence of any visible emissions indicating abnormal operations and, must initiate corrective actions within 1 hour of a visible emissions inspection that indicates abnormal operation. Corrective actions shall include, at a minimum, isolating, shutting down and conducting an internal inspection of the baghouse compartment that is the source of the visible emissions that indicate abnormal operations.
