
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### § 63.848 Emission monitoring requirements.
####### Similar potlines.

(d)As an alternative to semiannual monitoring of TF, POM or PM secondary emissions from each potline using the methods in § 63.849, the owner or operator may perform semiannual monitoring of TF, POM or PM secondary emissions from one potline using the test methods in § 63.849(a) or (b) to represent the performance of similar potline(s). The similar potline(s) must be monitored using an alternative method that meets the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section. Two or more potlines are similar if the owner or operator demonstrates that their structure, operability, type of emissions, volume of emissions and concentration of emissions are substantially equivalent.

(1) To demonstrate (to the satisfaction of the regulatory authority) that the level of emission control performance is the same or better, the owner or operator shall perform an emission test using an alternative monitoring procedure for the similar potline simultaneously with an emission test using the applicable test methods. The results of the emission test using the applicable test methods must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit for existing or new potlines in § 63.843 or § 63.844. An alternative method:

(i) For TF emissions, must account for or include gaseous fluoride and cannot be based on measurement of particulate matter or particulate fluoride alone; and

(ii) For TF, POM and PM emissions, must meet or exceed Method 14 criteria.

(2) An HF continuous emission monitoring system is an approved alternative for the monitoring of TF secondary emissions.

(3) An owner or operator electing to use an alternative monitoring procedure shall establish an alternative emission limit based on at least nine simultaneous runs using the applicable test methods and the alternative monitoring method. All runs must represent a full process cycle.

(4) The owner or operator shall derive an alternative emission limit for the HF continuous emission monitor or an alternative method using either of the following procedures:

(i) Use the highest value from the alternative method associated with a simultaneous run by the applicable test method that does not exceed the applicable emission limit; or

(ii) Correlate the results of the two methods (the applicable test method results and the alternative monitoring method results) and establish an emission limit for the alternative monitoring system that corresponds to the applicable emission limit.

(5) The owner or operator shall submit the results required in paragraph (d)(4) of this section and all supporting documentation to the applicable regulatory authority for review and approval.

(6) The regulatory authority shall review and approve or disapprove the request for an alternative method and alternative emission limit. The criterion for approval shall be a demonstration (to the satisfaction of the regulatory authority) that the alternative method and alternative emission limit achieve a level of emission control that is the same as or better than the level that would have otherwise been achieved by the applicable method and emission limit.

(7) If the alternative method is approved by the applicable regulatory authority, the owner or operator must perform semiannual emission monitoring using the approved alternative monitoring procedure to demonstrate compliance with the alternative emission limit for each similar potline.

(e) [Reserved]
