
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### § 63.849 Test methods and procedures.

(a) The owner or operator shall use the following reference methods to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits for TF, POM, PM, Ni, As, Hg, PCB and conduct visible emissions observations:

(1) Method 1 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for sample and velocity traverses;

(2) Method 2 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for velocity and volumetric flow rate;

(3) Method 3 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for gas analysis;

(4) Method 13A or Method 13B in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, or an approved alternative, for the concentration of TF where stack or duct emissions are sampled;

(5) Method 13A or Method 13B and Method 14 or Method 14A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of TF where emissions are sampled from roof monitors not employing wet roof scrubbers;

(6) Method 315 in appendix A to this part or an approved alternative method for the concentration of POM where stack or duct emissions are sampled;

(7) Method 315 in appendix A to this part and Method 14 or 14A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of POM where emissions are sampled from roof monitors not employing wet roof scrubbers. Method 315 need not be set up as required in the method. Instead, when using Method 14A, replace the Method 14A monitor cassette filter with the filter specified by Method 315. Recover and analyze the filter according to Method 315. When using Method 14, test at ambient conditions, do not heat the filter and probe, and do not analyze the back half of the sampling train;

(8) Method 5 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of PM where stack or duct emissions are sampled;

(9) Method 17 and Method 14 or Method 14A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of PM where emissions are sampled from roof monitors not employing wet roof scrubbers. Method 17 need not be set up as required in the method. Instead, when using Method 14A, replace the Method 14A monitor cassette filter with the filter specified by Method 17. Recover and analyze the filter according to Method 17. When using Method 14, test at ambient conditions, do not heat the filter and probe, and do not analyze the back half of the sampling train;

(10) Method 29 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of mercury, nickel and arsenic where stack or duct emissions are sampled;

(11) Method 29 and Method 14 or Method 14A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of nickel and arsenic where emissions are sampled from roof monitors not employing wet roof scrubbers. Method 29 need not be set up as required in the method. Instead, replace the Method 14A monitor cassette filter with the filter specified by Method 29. Recover and analyze the filter according to Method 29. When using Method 14, test at ambient conditions, do not heat the filter and probe, and do not analyze the back half of the sampling train;

(12) Method 22 in Appendix A to part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for determination of visual emissions;

(13) Method 23 of Appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60 for the measurement of Polychlorinated Biphenyls (PCBs) where stack or duct emissions are sampled; and

(14) Method 23 of Appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60 and Method 14 or Method 14A in Appendix A to Part 60 of this chapter or an approved alternative method for the concentration of PCB where emissions are sampled from roof monitors not employing wet roof scrubbers.

(b) The owner or operator of a VSS potline or a SWPB potline equipped with wet roof scrubbers for the control of secondary emissions shall use methods that meet the intent of the sampling requirements of Method 14 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter and that are approved by the State. Sample analysis shall be performed using Method 13A or Method 13B in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for TF, Method 315 in appendix A to this part for POM, or an approved alternative method.

(c) Except as provided in § 63.845(g)(1), references to "potroom" or "potroom group" in Method 14 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter shall be interpreted as "potline" for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) For sampling using Method 14 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, the owner or operator shall install one Method 14 manifold per potline in a potroom that is representative of the entire potline, and this manifold shall meet the installation requirements specified in section 2.2.1 of Method 14 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(e) The owner or operator may use an alternative test method for TF or POM emissions providing:

(1) The owner or operator has already demonstrated the equivalency of the alternative method for a specific plant and has received previous approval from the Administrator or the applicable regulatory authority for TF or POM measurements using the alternative method; or

(2) The owner or operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the applicable regulatory authority that the results from the alternative method meet the criteria specified in §§ 63.848(d)(1) and (d)(3) through (d)(6). The results from the alternative method shall be based on simultaneous sampling using the alternative method and the following reference methods:

(i) For TF, Methods 13 and 14 or Method 14A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter; or

(ii) For POM, Method 315 in appendix A to this part and Method 14 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(f) The owner or operator must use either ASTM D4239-14e1 or ASTM D6376-10 (incorporated by reference; see § 63.14) for determination of the sulfur content in anode coke shipments to determine compliance with the applicable emission limit for COS emissions.
