
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Aluminum Reduction Plants
###### ยง 63.854 Work practice standards for potlines.
####### Periods of operation other than startup.

(a)If you own or operate a new or existing primary aluminum reduction affected source, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section during periods of operation other than startup.

(1) Ensure the potline scrubbers and exhaust fans are operational at all times.

(2) Ensure that the primary capture and control system is operating at all times.

(3) Hood covers should be replaced as soon as possible after each potroom operation.

(4) Inspect potlines daily and perform the work practices specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Identify unstable pots as soon as practicable but in no case more than 12 hours from the time the pot became unstable;

(ii) Reduce cell temperatures to as low as practicable, and follow the written operating plan described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section if the cell temperature exceeds the specified high temperature limit; and

(iii) Reseal pot crusts that have been broken as often and as soon as practicable.

(5) Ensure that hood covers fit properly and are in good condition.

(6) If the exhaust system is equipped with an adjustable damper system, the hood exhaust rate for individual pots must be increased whenever hood covers are removed from a pot, provided that the exhaust system will not be overloaded by placing too many pots on high exhaust.

(7) Dust entrainment must be minimized during material handling operations and sweeping of the working aisles.

(8) Only tapping crucibles with functional aspirator air return systems (for returning gases under the collection hooding) can be used, unless the regulatory authority approves an alternative tapping crucible.
