
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite, and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills
###### ยง 63.860 Applicability and designation of affected source.
####### Affected sources.

(b)The requirements of this subpart apply to each new or existing affected source listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section:

(1) Each existing chemical recovery system (as defined in ยง 63.861) located at a kraft or soda pulp mill.

(2) Each new nondirect contact evaporator (NDCE) recovery furnace and associated smelt dissolving tank(s) located at a kraft or soda pulp mill.

(3) Each new direct contact evaporator (DCE) recovery furnace system (as defined in ยง 63.861) and associated smelt dissolving tank(s) located at a kraft or soda pulp mill.

(4) Each new lime kiln located at a kraft or soda pulp mill.

(5) Each new or existing sulfite combustion unit located at a sulfite pulp mill, except such existing units at Cosmo Specialty Fibers' Cosmopolis, Washington facility (Emission Unit no. AP-10).

(6) Each new or existing semichemical combustion unit located at a stand-alone semichemical pulp mill.

(7) The requirements of the alternative standard in ยง 63.862(d) apply to the hog fuel dryer at Cosmo Specialty Fibers' Cosmopolis, Washington facility (Emission Unit no. HD-14).

(c) The requirements of the General Provisions in subpart A of this part that apply to the owner or operator subject to the requirements of this subpart are identified in Table 1 to this subpart.

(d) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
