
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite, and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills
###### § 63.862 Standards.
####### Standards for HAP metals: existing sources.

(a)(1) Each owner or operator of an existing kraft or soda pulp mill must comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Each owner or operator of a kraft or soda pulp mill must comply with the PM emissions limits in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator of each existing kraft or soda recovery furnace must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.10 gram per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (0.044 grain per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf)) corrected to 8 percent oxygen.

(B) The owner or operator of each existing kraft or soda smelt dissolving tank must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.10 kilogram per megagram (kg/Mg) (0.20 pound per ton (lb/ton)) of black liquor solids fired.

(C) The owner or operator of each existing kraft or soda lime kiln must ensure that the concentration of PM in the exhaust gases discharged to the atmosphere is less than or equal to 0.15 g/dscm (0.064 gr/dscf) corrected to 10 percent oxygen.

(ii) As an alternative to meeting the requirements of § 63.862(a)(1)(i), each owner or operator of a kraft or soda pulp mill may establish PM emissions limits for each existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln that operates 6,300 hours per year or more by:

(A) Establishing an overall PM emission limit for each existing process unit in the chemical recovery system at the kraft or soda pulp mill using the methods in § 63.865(a)(1) and (2).

(B) The emissions limits for each kraft recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln that are used to establish the overall PM limit in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section must not be less stringent than the emissions limitations required by § 60.282 of part 60 of this chapter for any kraft recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln that is subject to the requirements of § 60.282.

(C) Each owner or operator of an existing kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, or lime kiln must ensure that the PM emissions discharged to the atmosphere from each of these sources are less than or equal to the applicable PM emissions limits, established using the methods in § 63.865(a)(1), that are used to establish the overall PM emissions limits in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
