
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite, and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills
###### § 63.865 Performance test requirements and test methods.
####### i.e.,

The owner or operator of each affected source or process unit subject to the requirements of this subpart is required to conduct an initial performance test and periodic performance tests using the test methods and procedures listed in § 63.7 and paragraph (b) of this section. The owner or operator must conduct the first of the periodic performance tests within 3 years of the effective date of the revised standards and thereafter within 5 years following the previous performance test. Performance tests shall be conducted based on representative performance (performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(a) The owner or operator of a process unit seeking to comply with a PM emission limit under § 63.862(a)(1)(ii)(A) must use the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) Determine the overall PM emission limit for the chemical recovery system at the mill using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(2) Establish an emission limit for each kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln; and, using these emissions limits, determine the overall PM emission rate for the chemical recovery system at the mill using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (v) of this section, such that the overall PM emission rate calculated in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section is less than or equal to the overall PM emission limit determined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) The PM emission rate from each affected recovery furnace must be determined using Equation 2 of this section as follows:

(ii) The PM emission rate from each affected smelt dissolving tank must be determined using Equation 3 of this section as follows:

(iii) The PM emission rate from each affected lime kiln must be determined using Equation 4 of this section as follows:

(iv) If more than one similar process unit is operated in the chemical recovery system at the kraft or soda pulp mill, Equation 5 of this section must be used to calculate the overall PM emission rate from all similar process units in the chemical recovery system at the mill and must be used in determining the overall PM emission rate for the chemical recovery system at the mill:

(v) The overall PM emission rate for the chemical recovery system at the mill must be determined using Equation 6 of this section as follows:

(vi) After the Administrator has approved the PM emissions limits for each kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln, the owner or operator complying with an overall PM emission limit established in § 63.862(a)(1)(ii) must demonstrate compliance with the HAP metals standard by demonstrating compliance with the approved PM emissions limits for each affected kraft or soda recovery furnace, smelt dissolving tank, and lime kiln, using the test methods and procedures in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator seeking to determine compliance with § 63.862(a), (b), or (d) must use the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) For purposes of determining the concentration or mass of PM emitted from each kraft or soda recovery furnace, sulfite combustion unit, smelt dissolving tank, lime kiln, or the hog fuel dryer at Cosmo Specialty Fibers' Cosmopolis, Washington facility (Emission Unit no. HD-14), Method 5 in appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 or Method 29 in appendix A-8 of 40 CFR part 60 must be used, except that Method 17 in appendix A-6 of 40 CFR part 60 may be used in lieu of Method 5 or Method 29 if a constant value of 0.009 g/dscm (0.004 gr/dscf) is added to the results of Method 17, and the stack temperature is no greater than 205 &#xB0;C (400 &#xB0;F). For Methods 5, 29, and 17, the sampling time and sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.90 dscm (31.8 dscf), and water must be used as the cleanup solvent instead of acetone in the sample recovery procedure.

(2) For sources complying with § 63.862(a) or (b), the PM concentration must be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration using Equation 7 of this section as follows:

(3) Method 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 of 40 CFR part 60 must be used to determine the oxygen concentration. The voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981-Part 10 (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 3B. The gas sample must be taken at the same time and at the same traverse points as the particulate sample.

(4) For purposes of complying with § 63.862(a)(1)(ii)(A), the volumetric gas flow rate must be corrected to the appropriate oxygen concentration using Equation 8 of this section as follows:

(5)(i) For purposes of selecting sampling port location and number of traverse points, Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 must be used;

(ii) For purposes of determining stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate, Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F in appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 or Method 2G in appendix A-2 of 40 CFR part 60 must be used;

(iii) For purposes of conducting gas analysis, Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 of 40 CFR part 60 must be used. The voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981-Part 10 (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 3B; and

(iv) For purposes of determining moisture content of stack gas, Method 4 in appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 must be used.

(6) Process data measured during the performance test must be used to determine the black liquor solids firing rate on a dry basis and the CaO production rate.

(c) The owner or operator of each affected source or process unit complying with the gaseous organic HAP standard in § 63.862(c)(1) must demonstrate compliance according to the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator complying through the use of an NDCE recovery furnace equipped with a dry ESP system is required to conduct periodic performance testing using Method 308 in appendix A of this part, as well as the methods listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the gaseous organic HAP standard. The requirements and equations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section must be met and utilized, respectively.

(2) The owner or operator complying without using an NDCE recovery furnace equipped with a dry ESP system must use Method 308 in appendix A of this part, as well as the methods listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section. The sampling time and sample volume for each Method 308 run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.014 dscm (0.50 dscf), respectively.

(i) The emission rate from any new NDCE recovery furnace must be determined using Equation 9 of this section as follows:

(ii) The emission rate from any new DCE recovery furnace system must be determined using Equation 10 of this section as follows:

(d) The owner or operator seeking to determine compliance with the gaseous organic HAP standards in § 63.862(c)(2) for semichemical combustion units must use Method 25A in appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60, as well as the methods listed in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section. The sampling time for each Method 25A run must be at least 60 minutes. The calibration gas for each Method 25A run must be propane.

(1) The emission rate from any new or existing semichemical combustion unit must be determined using Equation 11 of this section as follows:

(2) If the owner or operator of the semichemical combustion unit has selected the percentage reduction standards for THC, under § 63.862(c)(2)(ii), the percentage reduction in THC emissions is computed using Equation 12 of this section as follows, provided that Ei and Eo are measured simultaneously:
