
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite, and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills
###### ยง 63.864 Monitoring requirements.
####### Determination of operating limits.

(j)(1) During the initial or periodic performance test required in ยง 63.865, the owner or operator of any affected source or process unit must establish operating limits for the monitoring parameters in paragraphs (e)(10) through (14) of this section, as appropriate; or

(2) The owner or operator may base operating limits on values recorded during previous performance tests or conduct additional performance tests for the specific purpose of establishing operating limits, provided that data used to establish the operating limits are or have been obtained during testing that used the test methods and procedures required in this subpart. The owner or operator of the affected source or process unit must certify that all control techniques and processes have not been modified subsequent to the testing upon which the data used to establish the operating parameter limits were obtained.

(3) The owner or operator of an affected source or process unit may establish expanded or replacement operating limits for the monitoring parameters listed in paragraphs (e)(10) through (14) of this section and established in paragraph (j)(1) or (2) of this section during subsequent performance tests using the test methods in ยง 63.865.

(4) The owner or operator of the affected source or process unit must continuously monitor each parameter and determine the arithmetic average value of each parameter during each performance test run. Multiple performance tests may be conducted to establish a range of parameter values. Operating outside a previously established parameter limit during a performance test to expand the operating limit range does not constitute a monitoring exceedance. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during performance tests.

(5) New, expanded, or replacement operating limits for the monitoring parameter values listed in paragraphs (e)(10) through (14) of this section should be determined as described in paragraphs (j)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of an affected source or process unit that uses a wet scrubber must set minimum operating limits as described in paragraph (j)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Set the minimum scrubbing liquid flow rate operating limit as the lowest of the 1-hour average scrubbing liquid flow rate values associated with each test run demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limit in ยง 63.862.
