
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite, and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills
###### ยง 63.867 Reporting requirements.
####### Excess emissions report.

(c)The owner or operator must submit semiannual excess emissions reports containing the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. The owner or operator must submit semiannual excess emission reports and summary reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section as specified in ยง 63.10(e)(3)(v).

(1) If the total duration of excess emissions or process control system parameter exceedances for the reporting period is less than 1 percent of the total reporting period operating time, and CMS downtime is less than 5 percent of the total reporting period operating time, only the summary report is required to be submitted. This report will be titled "Summary Report-Gaseous and Opacity Excess Emissions and Continuous Monitoring System Performance" and must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (x) of this section.

(i) The company name and address and name of the affected facility.

(ii) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iii) An identification of each process unit with the corresponding air pollution control device, being included in the semiannual report, including the pollutants monitored at each process unit, and the total operating time for each process unit.

(iv) An identification of the applicable emission limits, operating parameter limits, and averaging times.

(v) An identification of the monitoring equipment used for each process unit and the corresponding model number.

(vi) Date of the last CMS certification or audit.
