
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Recovery Combustion Sources at Kraft, Soda, Sulfite, and Stand-Alone Semichemical Pulp Mills
###### ยง 63.867 Reporting requirements.
####### 4

() An identification of each exceedance by start and end time, date, and cause of exceedance including startup/shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, or other unknown causes).

(iv) The nature and cause of the event (if known).

(v) The corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.

(vi) The nature of repairs and adjustments to the CMS that was inoperative or out of control.

(4) If a source fails to meet an applicable standard, including any emission limit in ยง 63.862 or any opacity or CPMS operating limit in ยง 63.864, report such events in the semiannual excess emissions report. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time and duration of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, and for any failure to meet an emission limit under ยง 63.862, provide an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(5) The owner or operator of an affected source or process unit subject to the requirements of this subpart and subpart S of this part may combine excess emissions and/or summary reports for the mill.
