
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OO - National Emission Standards for Tanks - Level 1
###### ยง 63.906 Inspection and monitoring requirements.

(a) Owners and operators that use a tank equipped with a fixed roof in accordance with the provisions of ยง 63.902 of this subpart shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the tank wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.

(2) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the fixed roof. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once every calendar year except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.907 (a) of this subpart.

(b) The owner or operator shall repair all detected defects as follows:

(1) The owner or operator shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if the owner or operator determines that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the tank and no alternative tank capacity is available at the site to accept the regulated material normally managed in the tank. In this case, the owner or operator shall repair the defect the next time alternative tank capacity becomes available and the tank can be emptied or temporarily removed from service, as necessary to complete the repair.

(c) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.907(b) of this subpart.
