
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PP - National Emission Standards for Containers
###### ยง 63.924 Standards - Container Level 3 controls.

(a) This section applies to owners and operators subject to this subpart and required to control air emissions from containers using Container Level 3 controls.

(b) A container using Container Level 3 controls is one of the following:

(1) A container that is vented directly through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) of this section.

(2) A container that is vented inside an enclosure which is exhausted through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section.

(c) The owner or operator shall meet the following requirements as applicable to the type of air emission control equipment selected by the owner or operator:

(1) The enclosure shall be designed and operated in accordance with the criteria for a permanent total enclosure as specified in "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" under 40 CFR 52.741, appendix B. The enclosure may have permanent or temporary openings to allow worker access; passage of containers through the enclosure by conveyor or other mechanical means; entry of permanent mechanical or electrical equipment; or to direct airflow into the enclosure. The owner or operator shall perform the verification procedure for the enclosure as specified in Section 5.0 to "Procedure T-Criteria for and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" initially when the enclosure is first installed and, thereafter, annually.

(2) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of ยง 63.693.

(d) Safety devices, as defined in ยง 63.921 of this subpart, may be installed and operated as necessary on any container, enclosure, closed-vent system, or control device used to comply with this section.
