
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PP - National Emission Standards for Containers
###### § 63.926 Inspection and monitoring requirements.

(a) Owners and operators of containers using either Container Level 1 or Container Level 2 controls in accordance with the provisions of § 63.922 and § 63.923 of this subpart, respectively, shall inspect the container and its cover and closure devices as follows:

(1) In the case when a regulated-material already is in the container at the time the owner or operator first accepts possession of the container at the facility site and the container is not emptied (i.e., does not meet the conditions for an empty container as defined in § 63.921 of this subpart) within 24 hours after the container has been accepted at the facility site, the container and its cover and closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position. This inspection of the container must be conducted on or before the date that the container is accepted at the facility (i.e., the date that the container becomes subject to the standards under this subpart). For the purpose of this requirement, the date of acceptance is the date of signature of the facility owner or operator on the manifest or shipping papers accompanying the container. If a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(2) In the case when a container filled or partially filled with regulated-material remains unopened at the facility site for a period of 1 year or more, the container and its cover and closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator initially and thereafter, at least once every calendar year, to check for visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces into the interior of the container when the cover and closure devices are secured in the closed position. If a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(3) When a defect is detected for the container, cover, or closure devices, the owner or operator must either empty the regulated-material from the defective container in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section or repair the defective container in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) If the owner or operator elects to empty the regulated-material from the defective container, the owner or operator must remove the regulated-material from the defective container to meet the conditions for an empty container (as defined in § 63.921 of this subpart) and transfer the removed regulated-material to either a container that meets the applicable standards under this subpart or to a tank, process, or treatment unit that meets the applicable standards under the subpart referencing this subpart. Transfer of the regulated-material must be completed no later than 5 calendar days after detection of the defect. The emptied defective container must be either repaired, destroyed, or used for purposes other than management of regulated-material.

(ii) If the owner or operator elects not to empty the regulated-material from the defective container, the owner or operator must repair the defective container. First efforts at repair of the defect must be made no later than 24 hours after detection and repair must be completed as soon as possible but no later than 5 calendar days after detection. If repair of a defect cannot be completed within 5 calendar days, then the regulated-material must be emptied from the container and the container must not be used to manage regulated-material until the defect is repaired.

(b) Owners and operators using Container Level 3 controls in accordance with the provisions of § 63.924 of this subpart shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent systems and control devices in accordance with the requirements of § 63.693 in 40 CFR part 63, Subpart DD-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations.
