
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQ - National Emission Standards for Surface Impoundments
###### ยง 63.942 Standards - Surface impoundment floating membrane cover.

(a) This section applies to owners and operators subject to this subpart and controlling air emissions from a surface impoundment using a floating membrane cover.

(b) The surface impoundment shall be equipped with a floating membrane cover designed to meet the following specifications:

(1) The floating membrane cover shall be designed to float on the liquid surface during normal operations, and form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid.

(2) The cover shall be fabricated from a synthetic membrane material that is either:

(i) High density polyethylene (HDPE) with a thickness no less than 2.5 millimeters (mm); or

(ii) A material or a composite of different materials determined to have both organic permeability properties that are equivalent to those of the material listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section; and chemical and physical properties that maintain the material integrity for the intended service life of the material.

(3) The cover shall be installed in a manner such that there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces between cover section seams or between the interface of the cover edge and its foundation mountings.

(4) Except as provided for in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, each opening in the floating membrane cover shall be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the cover opening and the closure device.

(5) The floating membrane cover may be equipped with one or more emergency cover drains for removal of stormwater. Each emergency cover drain shall be equipped with a slotted membrane fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the area of the opening or a flexible fabric sleeve seal.

(6) The closure devices shall be made of suitable materials that will minimize exposure of the regulated-material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, and will maintain the integrity of the equipment throughout its intended service life. Factors to be considered when selecting the materials for and designing the cover and closure devices shall include: organic vapor permeability; the effects of any contact with the liquid and its vapor managed in the surface impoundment; the effects of outdoor exposure to wind, moisture, and sunlight; and the operating practices used for the surface impoundment on which the floating membrane cover is installed.

(c) Whenever a regulated-material is in the surface impoundment, the floating membrane cover shall float on the liquid and each closure device shall be secured in the closed position except as follows:

(1) Opening of closure devices or removal of the cover is allowed at the following times:

(i) To provide access to the surface impoundment for performing routine inspection, maintenance, or other activities needed for normal operations. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to sample the liquid in the surface impoundment, or when a worker needs to open a hatch to maintain or repair equipment. Following completion of the activity, the owner or operator shall promptly replace the cover and secure the closure device in the closed position, as applicable.

(ii) To remove accumulated sludge or other residues from the bottom of surface impoundment.

(2) Opening of a spring-loaded pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device which vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations for the purpose of maintaining the pressure in the vapor headspace underneath the cover in accordance with the cover design specifications. The device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions as defined in ยง 63.941 of this subpart when the device is secured in the closed position. The settings at which the device opens shall be established such that the device remains in the closed position whenever the cover vapor headspace pressure is within the pressure operating range determined by the owner or operator based on the cover manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, ignitible, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials.

(3) Opening of a safety device, as defined in ยง 63.941 of this subpart, is allowed at any time conditions require it to do so to avoid an unsafe condition.

(d) The owner or operator shall inspect the floating membrane cover in accordance with the procedures specified in ยง 63.946(a) of this subpart.
