
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQ - National Emission Standards for Surface Impoundments
###### § 63.943 Standards - Surface impoundment vented to control device.

(a) This section applies to owners and operators subject to this subpart and controlling air emissions from a surface impoundment using a cover and venting the vapor headspace underneath the cover through a closed-vent system to a control device.

(b) The surface impoundment shall be covered by a cover and vented directly through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) The cover and its closure devices shall be designed to form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid in the surface impoundment.

(2) Each opening in the cover not vented to the control device shall be equipped with a closure device. If the pressure in the vapor headspace underneath the cover is less than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating, the closure devices shall be designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the cover opening and the closure device. If the pressure in the vapor headspace underneath the cover is equal to or greater than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating, the closure device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions using the procedure specified in § 63.945(a) of this subpart.

(3) The cover and its closure devices shall be made of suitable materials that will minimize exposure of the regulated-material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, and will maintain the integrity of the equipment throughout its intended service life. Factors to be considered when selecting the materials for and designing the cover and closure devices shall include: organic vapor permeability; the effects of any contact with the liquid or its vapors managed in the surface impoundment; the effects of outdoor exposure to wind, moisture, and sunlight; and the operating practices used for the surface impoundment on which the cover is installed.

(4) The closed-vent system and control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 63.693 in 40 CFR part 63, subpart DD-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Standards from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations.

(c) Whenever a regulated-material is in the surface impoundment, the cover shall be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position and the vapor headspace underneath the cover vented to the control device except as follows:

(1) Venting to the control device is not required, and opening of closure devices or removal of the cover is allowed at the following times:

(i) To provide access to the surface impoundment for performing routine inspection, maintenance, or other activities needed for normal operations. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to sample liquid in the surface impoundment, or when a worker needs to open a hatch to maintain or repair equipment. Following completion of the activity, the owner or operator shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable, to the surface impoundment.

(ii) To remove accumulated sludge or other residues from the bottom of surface impoundment.

(2) Opening of a safety device, as defined in § 63.941 of this subpart, is allowed at any time conditions require it to do so to avoid an unsafe condition.

(d) The owner or operator shall inspect and monitor the air emission control equipment in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.946(b) of this subpart.
