
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQ - National Emission Standards for Surface Impoundments
###### § 63.946 Inspection and monitoring requirements.

(a) Owners and operators that use a surface impoundment equipped with a floating membrane cover in accordance with the provisions of § 63.942 of this subpart shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The floating membrane cover and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the cover section seams or between the interface of the cover edge and its foundation mountings; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.

(2) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the floating membrane cover. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once per calendar year except as provided for in paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.947(a)(2) of this subpart.

(b) Owners and operators that use a surface impoundment equipped with a cover and vented through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the provisions of § 63.943 of this subpart shall inspect the air emission control equipment as follows:

(1) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the cover in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) The cover and its closure devices shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator to check for defects that could result in air emissions. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the interface of the roof edge and its foundation mountings; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.

(ii) The owner or operator must perform an initial inspection following installation of the cover. Thereafter, the owner or operator must perform the inspections at least once per calendar year except as provide for in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(iv) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.947(a)(2) of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent system and the control device in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.693 in 40 CFR part 63 subpart DD-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Standards from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations.

(c) The owner or operator shall repair all detected defects as follows:

(1) The owner or operator shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if the owner or operator determines that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the surface impoundment and no alternative surface impoundment or tank capacity is available at the site to accept the regulated-material normally managed in the surface impoundment. In this case, the owner or operator shall repair the defect at the next time the process or unit that is generating the regulated-material managed in the surface impoundment stops operation. Repair of the defect shall be completed before the process or unit resumes operation.

(3) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.947 of this subpart.
