
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RR - National Emission Standards for Individual Drain Systems
###### ยง 63.964 Inspection and monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner or operator shall inspect the individual drain system in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) The individual drain system shall be visually inspected by the owner or operator as follows to check for defects that could result in air emissions to the atmosphere.

(i) The owner or operator shall visually inspect each drain as follows:

(A) In the case when the drain is using a water seal to control air emissions, the owner or operator shall verify appropriate liquid levels are being maintained and identify any other defects that could reduce water seal control effectiveness.

(B) In the case when the drain is using a closure device to control air emissions, the owner or operator shall visually inspect each drain to verify that the closure device is in place and there are no defects. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the closure devices; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing plugs, caps, or other closure devices.

(ii) The owner or operator shall visually inspect each junction box to verify that closure devices are in place and there are no defects. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the closure devices; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.

(iii) The owner or operator shall visually inspect the unburied portion of each sewer line to verify that all closure devices are in place and there are no defects. Defects include, but are not limited to, visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the sewer line joints, seals, or other emission interfaces.

(iv) The owner or operator shall perform the inspections initially at the time of installation of the water seals and closure devices for the individual drain system and, thereafter, at least once every year.

(v) In the event that a defect is detected, the owner or operator shall repair the defect in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(vi) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the inspection in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.965(a) of this subpart.

(2) The owner or operator shall inspect and monitor the closed-vent system and the control device in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.693 in 40 CFR 63 subpart DD-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations.

(b) The owner or operator shall repair all detected defects as follows:

(1) The owner or operator shall make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 15 calendar days after detection except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 15 calendar days if the owner or operator determines that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the individual drain system and no alternative capacity is available at the facility site to accept the regulated-material normally managed in the individual drain system. In this case, the owner or operator shall repair the defect the next time the process or unit that is generating the regulated-material managed in the individual drain system stops operation. Repair of the defect shall be completed before the process or unit resumes operation.

(3) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the defect repair in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.965(a)(3) of this subpart.
