
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.982 Requirements.
####### Closed vent system and nonflare control device.

(c)Owners or operators who control emissions through a closed vent system to a nonflare control device shall meet the requirements in § 63.983 for closed vent systems, the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of §§ 63.998 and 63.999, and the applicable requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For storage vessels and low throughput transfer racks, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements in § 63.985 for nonflare control devices and the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements referenced therein. No other provisions of this subpart apply to low throughput transfer rack emissions or storage vessel emissions vented through a closed vent system to a nonflare control device unless specifically required in the monitoring plan submitted under § 63.985(c).

(2) For process vents and high throughput transfer racks, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements applicable to the control devices being used in § 63.988, § 63.990 or § 63.995; the applicable general monitoring requirements of § 63.996 and the applicable performance test requirements and procedures of § 63.997; and the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements referenced therein. Owners or operators subject to halogen reduction device requirements under a referencing subpart must also comply with § 63.994 and the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements referenced therein. The requirements of §§ 63.984 through 63.986 do not apply to process vents or high throughput transfer racks.

(3) For equipment leaks, owners or operators shall meet the requirements in § 63.986 for nonflare control devices used for equipment leak emissions and the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements referenced therein. No other provisions of this subpart apply to equipment leak emissions vented through a closed vent system to a nonflare control device.
