
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.983 Closed vent systems.
####### Closed vent system leak repair provisions.

(d)The provisions of this paragraph apply to closed vent systems collecting regulated material from a regulated source.

(1) If there are visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks at the time of the annual visual inspections required by paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall eliminate the leak.

(ii) The owner or operator shall monitor the equipment according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million by volume above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practical, except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Records shall be generated as specified in ยง 63.998(d)(1)(iii) when a leak is detected.

(i) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 days after the leak is detected.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, repairs shall be completed no later than 15 days after the leak is detected or at the beginning of the next introduction of vapors to the system, whichever is later.

(3) Delay of repair of a closed vent system for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair within 15 days after a leak is detected is technically infeasible or unsafe without a closed vent system shutdown, as defined in ยง 63.981, or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be completed as soon as practical, but not later than the end of the next closed vent system shutdown.
