
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.983 Closed vent systems.
####### Closed vent system inspection and monitoring requirements.

(b)The provisions of this subpart apply to closed vent systems collecting regulated material from a regulated source. Inspection records shall be generated as specified in ยง 63.998(d)(1)(iii) and (iv) of this section.

(1) Except for any closed vent systems that are designated as unsafe or difficult to inspect as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If the closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section; and

(B) Conduct annual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(ii) If the closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial and annual inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in ยง 63.998(d)(1)(i), as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the conditions of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe-to-inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-inspect times. Inspection is not required more than once annually.

(3) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in ยง 63.998(d)(1)(i), as difficult-to-inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the provisions of paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section apply.

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.

(4) For each bypass line, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If a flow indicator is used, take a reading at least once every 15 minutes.

(ii) If the bypass line valve is secured in the non-diverting position, visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to verify that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position, and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line.
