
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.985 Nonflare control devices used to control emissions from storage vessels and low throughput transfer racks.
####### Design evaluation.

(i)The design evaluation shall include documentation demonstrating that the control device being used achieves the required control efficiency during the reasonably expected maximum storage vessel filling or transfer loading rate. This documentation is to include a description of the gas stream that enters the control device, including flow and regulated material content, and the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, as applicable. For storage vessels, the description of the gas stream that enters the control device shall be provided for varying liquid level conditions. This documentation shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in ยง 63.999(b)(2).

(A) The efficiency determination is to include consideration of all vapors, gases, and liquids, other than fuels, received by the control device.

(B) If an enclosed combustion device with a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds and a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C is used to meet an emission reduction requirement specified in a referencing subpart for storage vessels and transfer racks, documentation that those conditions exist is sufficient to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(C) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section for enclosed combustion devices, the design evaluation shall include the estimated autoignition temperature of the stream being combusted, the flow rate of the stream, the combustion temperature, and the residence time at the combustion temperature.

(D) For carbon adsorbers, the design evaluation shall include the estimated affinity of the regulated material vapors for carbon, the amount of carbon in each bed, the number of beds, the humidity, the temperature, the flow rate of the inlet stream and, if applicable, the desorption schedule, the regeneration stream pressure or temperature, and the flow rate of the regeneration stream. For vacuum desorption, pressure drop shall be included.

(E) For condensers, the design evaluation shall include the final temperature of the stream vapors, the type of condenser, and the design flow rate of the emission stream.
