
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.990 Absorbers, condensers, and carbon adsorbers used as control devices.
####### Monitoring requirements.

(c)Where an absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber is used as a control device, either an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, or the monitoring devices specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3), as applicable, shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in ยง 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in a referencing subpart and ยง 63.996.

(1) Where an absorber is used, a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device, each capable of providing a continuous record, shall be used. If the difference between the specific gravity of the saturated scrubbing fluid and specific gravity of the fresh scrubbing fluid is less than 0.02 specific gravity units, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be used.

(2) Where a condenser is used, a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be used.

(3) Where a carbon adsorber is used, an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of +/-10 percent or better, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle, shall be used.
