
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.988 Incinerators, boilers, and process heaters.
####### Incinerator, boiler, and process heater monitoring requirements.

(c)Where an incinerator, boiler, or process heater is used, a temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record that meets the provisions specified in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from monitoring. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in ยง 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in the referencing subpart and ยง 3.996.

(1) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the fire box or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the fire box in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(2) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) design heat input capacity is used and the regulated vent stream is not introduced as or with the primary fuel, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the fire box.
