
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.988 Incinerators, boilers, and process heaters.
####### Performance test requirements.

(b)(1) Except as specified in § 63.997(b), and paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial performance test of any incinerator, boiler, or process heater used to comply with the provisions of a referencing subpart and this subpart according to the procedures in § 63.997. Performance test records shall be kept as specified in § 63.998(a)(2) and a performance test report shall be submitted as specified in § 63.999(a)(2). As provided in § 63.985(b)(1), a design evaluation may be used as an alternative to the performance test for storage vessels and low throughput transfer rack controls. As provided in § 63.986(b), no performance test is required for equipment leaks.

(2) An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test when any of the control devices specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section are used.

(i) A hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O;

(ii) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) or greater;

(iii) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel; or

(iv) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator meets the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) The boiler or process heater has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or

(B) The boiler or process heater has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
