
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.993 Absorbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers and other recovery devices used as final recovery devices.
####### Recovery device monitoring requirements.

(c)(1) Where an absorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0, either an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record or a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device, each capable of providing a continuous record, shall be used. If the difference between the specific gravity of the saturated scrubbing fluid and specific gravity of the fresh scrubbing fluid is less than 0.02 specific gravity units, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 63.996.

(2) Where a condenser is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record or a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in a referencing subpart and § 63.996.

(3) Where a carbon adsorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record or an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of +/-10 percent or better, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle; and a carbon-bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon-bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), as applicable. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in a referencing subpart and § 63.996.

(4) If an owner or operator uses a recovery device other than those listed in this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping procedures as specified in a referencing subpart. The Administrator will approve, deny, or modify based on the reasonableness of the proposed monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the submission or permit application or by other appropriate means.
