
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.997 Performance test and compliance assessment requirements for control devices.
####### Prior test results and waivers.

(b)Initial performance tests and initial flare compliance assessments are required only as specified in this subpart or a referencing subpart.

(1) Unless requested by the Administrator, an owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test or flare compliance assessment under this subpart if a prior performance test or compliance assessment was conducted using the same methods specified in § 63.997(e) or § 63.987(b)(3), as applicable, and either no process changes have been made since the test, or the owner or operator can demonstrate that the results of the performance test or compliance demonstration, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes. An owner or operator may request permission to substitute a prior performance test or compliance assessment by written application to the Administrator as specified in § 63.999(a)(1)(iv).

(2) Individual performance tests and flare compliance assessments may be waived upon written application to the Administrator, per § 63.999(a)(1)(iii), if, in the Administrator's judgment, the source is meeting the relevant standard(s) on a continuous basis, the source is being operated under an extension or waiver of compliance, or the owner or operator has requested an extension or waiver of compliance and the Administrator is still considering that request.

(3) Approval of any waiver granted under this section shall not abrogate the Administrator's authority under the Act or in any way prohibit the Administrator from later canceling the waiver. The cancellation will be made only after notification is given to the owner or operator of the source.
