
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.997 Performance test and compliance assessment requirements for control devices.
####### Performance test runs.

(v)Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(v)(A) and (B) of this section, each performance test shall consist of three separate runs using the applicable test method. Each run shall be conducted for at least 1 hour and under the conditions specified in this section. For the purpose of determining compliance with an applicable standard, the arithmetic means of results of the three runs shall apply. In the event that a sample is accidentally lost or conditions occur in which one of the three runs must be discontinued because of forced shutdown, failure of an irreplaceable portion of the sample train, extreme meteorological conditions, or other circumstances, beyond the owner or operator's control, compliance may, upon the Administrator's approval, be determined using the arithmetic mean of the results of the two other runs.

(A) For control devices used to control emissions from transfer racks (except low throughput transfer racks that are capable of continuous vapor processing but do not handle continuous emissions or multiple loading arms of a transfer rack that load simultaneously), each run shall represent at least one complete tank truck or tank car loading period, during which regulated materials are loaded, and samples shall be collected using integrated sampling or grab samples taken at least four times per hour at approximately equal intervals of time, such as 15-minute intervals.

(B) For intermittent vapor processing systems used for controlling transfer rack emissions (except low throughput transfer racks that do not handle continuous emissions or multiple loading arms of a transfer rack that load simultaneously), each run shall represent at least one complete control device cycle, and samples shall be collected using integrated sampling or grab samples taken at least four times per hour at approximately equal intervals of time, such as 15-minute intervals.
