
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.997 Performance test and compliance assessment requirements for control devices.
####### 3,1,2,i.e.,

() You may elect to use ASTM D6348-12e1 (incorporated by reference, § 63.14) in lieu of Method 316 or 320 of appendix A to this part as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(I)() or () of this section. To comply with this paragraph, the test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) Sections Al through A8 are mandatory; the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte using Equation A5.5 of ASTM D6348-03 Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique); and in order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, the %R must be 70% ≥ R &#x2264; 130%. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, then the test data is not acceptable for that compound and the test must be repeated for that analyte (the sampling and/or analytical procedure should be adjusted before a retest). The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound by using the following equation:

(3) An owner or operator using a halogen scrubber or other halogen reduction device to control process vent and transfer rack halogenated vent streams in compliance with a referencing subpart, who is required to conduct a performance test to determine compliance with a control efficiency or emission limit for hydrogen halides and halogens, shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(3) (i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For an owner or operator determining compliance with the percent reduction of total hydrogen halides and halogens, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions. For an owner or operator determining compliance with a kilogram per hour outlet emission limit for total hydrogen halides and halogens, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, Method 26 or Method 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration, in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, of total hydrogen halides and halogens that may be present in the vent stream. The mass emissions of each hydrogen halide and halogen compound shall be calculated from the measured concentrations and the gas stream flow rate.

(iii) To determine compliance with the percent removal efficiency, the mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the inlet of the halogen reduction device shall be summed together. The mass emissions of the compounds present at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. Percent reduction shall be determined by comparison of the summed inlet and outlet measurements.

(iv) To demonstrate compliance with a kilogram per hour outlet emission limit, the test results must show that the mass emission rate of total hydrogen halides and halogens measured at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device is below the kilogram per hour outlet emission limit specified in a referencing subpart.
