
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Alternative recordkeeping.

(5)For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment associated with a process vent or transfer rack (except low throughput transfer loading racks), the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section as alternatives to the recordkeeping provisions listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. The owner or operator shall retain each record required by paragraphs (b)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section as provided in a referencing subpart.

(i) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average value, and is not required to retain more frequently monitored operating parameter values, for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment, if the requirements of paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (F) of this section are met. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in ยง 63.999(b)(5) or, if the Notification of Compliance Status has already been submitted, in the Periodic Report immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of this paragraph, as specified in ยง 63.999(c)(6)(iv).

(A) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unrealistic or impossible data during periods of operation other than start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions (e.g., a temperature reading of -200 &#xB0;C on a boiler), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.
