
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of daily averages.

(3)In addition to the records specified in paragraph (a), owners or operators shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section and submit reports as specified in ยง 63.999(c), unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved under a referencing subpart.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated from data meeting the specifications of paragraph (b)(2) of this section for each operating day and retained for 5 years.

(A) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the period of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous (e.g., for transfer racks the average shall cover periods of loading). If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the daily average instead of all measured values.

(B) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or in the Notification of Compliance Status. It may be from midnight to midnight or another daily period.

(ii) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are within the range established in the Notification of Compliance Status or in the operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were within the range and retain this record for 5 years rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day. In such cases, the owner or operator may not discard the recorded values as allowed in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section.

(4) [Reserved]
