
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Combustion control and halogen reduction device monitoring records.

(2)(i) Each owner or operator using a combustion control or halogen reduction device to comply with this subpart shall keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible, as applicable. Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under §§ 63.988(c) (incinerator, boiler, and process heater monitoring), 63.994(c) (halogen reduction device monitoring), and 63.995(c) (other combustion systems used as control device monitoring) or approved by the Administrator in accordance with a referencing subpart.

(ii) Each owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. For catalytic incinerators, record the daily average of the temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the daily average of the temperature differential across the bed. For halogen scrubbers record the daily average pH and the liquid-to-gas ratio.

(iii) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries are exceeded. The parameter boundaries are established pursuant to § 63.996(c)(6).
