
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Nonflare control and recovery device regulated source monitoring records,Monitoring system records.

(c)-(1)For process vents and high throughput transfer racks, the owner or operator subject to this subpart shall keep the records specified in this paragraph, as well as records specified elsewhere in this subpart.

(i) For a CPMS used to comply with this part, a record of the procedure used for calibrating the CPMS.

(ii) For a CPMS used to comply with this subpart, records of the information specified in paragraphs (c)(ii)(A) through (H) of this section, as indicated in a referencing subpart.

(A) The date and time of completion of calibration and preventive maintenance of the CPMS.

(B) The "as found" and "as left" CPMS readings, whenever an adjustment is made that affects the CPMS reading and a "no adjustment" statement otherwise.

(C) The start time and duration or start and stop times of any periods when the CPMS is inoperative.

(D) Records of the occurrence and duration of each start-up, shutdown, and malfunction of CPMS used to comply with this subpart during which excess emissions (as defined in a referencing subpart) occur.

(E) For each start-up, shutdown, and malfunction during which excess emissions as defined in a referencing subpart occur, records whether the procedures specified in the source's start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan were followed, and documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the plan. These records may take the form of a "checklist," or other form of recordkeeping that confirms conformance with the start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan for the event.

(F) Records documenting each start-up, shutdown, and malfunction event.

(G) Records of CPMS start-up, shutdown, and malfunction event that specify that there were no excess emissions during the event, as applicable.

(H) Records of the total duration of operating time.
