
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Monitoring records for recovery devices, absorbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers or other noncombustion systems used as control devices.

(3)(i) Each owner or operator using a recovery device to achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than the control applicability level specified in the referencing subpart but less than 4.0 or using an absorber, condenser, carbon adsorber or other non-combustion system as a control device shall keep readily accessible, continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under §§ 63.990(c) (absorber, condenser, and carbon adsorber monitoring), 63.993(c) (recovery device monitoring), or 63.995(c) (other noncombustion systems used as a control device monitoring) or as approved by the Administrator in accordance with a referencing subpart. For transfer racks, continuous records are required while the transfer vent stream is being vented.

(ii) Each owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. If carbon adsorber regeneration stream flow and carbon bed regeneration temperature are monitored, the records specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section shall be kept instead of the daily averages.

(A) Records of total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each carbon-bed regeneration cycle.

(B) Records of the temperature of the carbon bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.

(iii) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries are exceeded. The parameter boundaries are established pursuant to § 63.996(c)(6).
