
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Equipment leak records.

(4)The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section for closed vent systems and control devices if specified by the equipment leak provisions in a referencing subpart. The records specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section shall be retained for the life of the equipment. The records specified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section shall be retained for 5 years.

(i) The design specifications and performance demonstrations specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Detailed schematics, design specifications of the control device, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.

(B) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.

(C) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in a referencing subpart, to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.

(ii) Records of operation of closed vent systems and control devices, as specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Dates and durations when the closed vent systems and control devices required are not operated as designed as indicated by the monitored parameters.

(B) Dates and durations during which the monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.

(C) Dates and durations of start-ups and shutdowns of control devices required in this subpart.
