
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.999 Notifications and other reports.
####### Performance test and flare compliance assessment notifications and reports,General requirements.

(a)-(1)General requirements for performance test and flare compliance assessment notifications and reports are specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intention to conduct a performance test or flare compliance assessment at least 30 days before such a compliance demonstration is scheduled to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days notice for such an initially scheduled compliance demonstration, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled compliance demonstration, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original demonstration date. The owner or operator shall provide at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the compliance demonstration, or arrange a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.

(ii) Unless specified differently in this subpart or a referencing subpart, performance test and flare compliance assessment reports, not submitted as part of a Notification of Compliance Status report, shall be submitted to the Administrator within 60 days of completing the test or determination.

(iii) Any application for a waiver of an initial performance test or flare compliance assessment, as allowed by § 63.997(b)(2), shall be submitted no later than 90 days before the performance test or compliance assessment is required. The application for a waiver shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for a waiver, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the source performing the test.

(iv) Any application to substitute a prior performance test or compliance assessment for an initial performance test or compliance assessment, as allowed by § 63.997(b)(1), shall be submitted no later than 90 days before the performance test or compliance test is required. The application for substitution shall include information demonstrating that the prior performance test or compliance assessment was conducted using the same methods specified in § 63.997(e) or § 63.987(b)(3), as applicable. The application shall also include information demonstrating that no process changes have been made since the test, or that the results of the performance test or compliance assessment reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.
