
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Storage vessel and transfer rack records.

(2)An owner or operator shall keep readily accessible records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 63.985(c) or § 63.987(c).

(ii) A record of the planned routine maintenance performed on the control system during which the control system does not meet the applicable specifications of § 63.983(a), § 63.985(a), or § 63.987(a), as applicable, due to the planned routine maintenance. Such a record shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. This information shall be submitted in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.999(c)(4).

(A) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 63.983(a), § 63.985(a), or § 63.987(a), as applicable, were not met at the beginning of the planned routine maintenance, and

(B) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 63.983(a), § 63.985(a), or § 63.987(a), as applicable, were met at the conclusion of the planned routine maintenance.

(C) A description of the type of maintenance performed.
