
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.998 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### 4,2

() Owners and operators subject to paragraph (b)(5)(i)(F)() of this section shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current, but not less than 5 years from the date of its creation. The current description shall be retained on-site at all times or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain the most recent superseded description at least until 5 years from the date of its creation. The superseded description shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer that provides access within 2 hours after a request) at least 6 months after being superseded. Thereafter, the superseded description may be stored off-site.

(ii) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section, and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average value for that parameter for that unit of equipment, for any operating day when the daily average value is less than the maximum, or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months, if the parameter limit and the monitoring were required and/or approved by the Administrator.

(A) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report, as specified in § 63.999(c)(6)(i). The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.

(B) If there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily averages as provided in paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average value for each operating day, and shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report, as specified in § 63.999(c). The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.

(C) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (F) of this section for the duration specified in a referencing subpart. For any week, if compliance with paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of operation other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction.

(6)(i) For the purposes of this section, an excursion means that the daily average value of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum, or less than the minimum established value, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The daily average value during any startup, shutdown, or malfunction shall not be considered an excursion if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a) and maintains the records specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(B) An excused excursion, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(ii), does not count toward the number of excursions for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) One excused excursion for each control device or recovery device for each semiannual period is allowed. If a source has developed a startup, shutdown and malfunction plan, and a monitored parameter is outside its established range or monitoring data are not collected during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction (and the source is operated during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a)) or during periods of nonoperation of the process unit or portion thereof (resulting in cessation of the emissions to which monitoring applies), then the excursion is not a violation and, in cases where continuous monitoring is required, the excursion does not count as the excused excursion for determining compliance.
