
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.999 Notifications and other reports.
####### Routing storage vessel or low throughput transfer rack emissions to a nonflare control device.

(2)An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 63.982 by routing emissions from a storage vessel or low throughput transfer rack to a nonflare control device, as specified in § 63.985, shall submit, with the Notification of Compliance Status required by a referencing subpart, the applicable information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section. Owners and operators who elect to comply with § 63.985(b)(1)(i) by submitting a design evaluation shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. Owners and operators who elect to comply with § 63.985(b)(1)(ii) by submitting performance test results from a control device for a storage vessel or low throughput transfer rack shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), (iv), and (v) of this section. Owners and operators who elect to comply with § 63.985(b)(1)(ii) by submitting performance test results from a shared control device shall submit the information specified in paragraph (b)(2)(vi) of this section.

(i) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised). If continuous records are specified, indicate whether the provisions of § 63.999(c)(6) apply.

(ii) The operating range for each monitoring parameter identified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.985(c)(1). The specified operating range shall represent the conditions for which the control device is being properly operated and maintained.

(iii) The documentation specified in § 63.985(b)(1)(i), if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design evaluation.

(iv) The provisions of paragraph (c)(6) of this section do not apply to any low throughput transfer rack for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 63.985 or to any storage vessel for which the owner or operator is not required, by the applicable monitoring plan established under § 63.985(c)(1), to keep continuous records. If continuous records are required, the owner or operator shall specify in the monitoring plan whether the provisions of paragraph (c)(6) of this section apply.

(v) A summary of the results of the performance test described in § 63.985(b)(1)(ii). If such a performance test is conducted, submit the results of the performance test, including the information specified in § 63.999(a)(2)(ii) and (iii).

(vi) Identification of the storage vessel or transfer rack and control device for which the performance test will be submitted, and identification of the emission point(s), if any, that share the control device with the storage vessel or transfer rack and for which the performance test will be conducted.
