
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 63.999 Notifications and other reports.
####### Operating range for monitored parameters.

(3)The owner or operator shall submit as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, the operating range for each monitoring parameter identified for each control, recovery, or halogen reduction device as determined pursuant to ยง 63.996(c)(6). The specified operating range shall represent the conditions for which the control, recovery, or halogen reduction device is being properly operated and maintained. This report shall include the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, unless the range and the operating day have been established in the operating permit.

(i) The specific range of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point;

(ii) The rationale for the specific range for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the range and a description of why the range indicates proper operation of the control, recovery, or halogen reduction device, as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable.

(A) If a performance test or TRE index value determination is required by a referencing subpart for a control, recovery or halogen reduction device, the range shall be based on the parameter values measured during the TRE index value determination or performance test and may be supplemented by engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations. TRE index value determinations and performance testing are not required to be conducted over the entire range of permitted parameter values.

(B) If a performance test or TRE index value determination is not required by a referencing subpart for a control, recovery, or halogen reduction device, the range may be based solely on engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.

(C) The range may be based on ranges or limits previously established under a referencing subpart.

(iii) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.
