
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.999 Notifications and other reports.
####### Periodic reports.

(c)(1) Periodic reports shall include the reporting period dates, the total source operating time for the reporting period, and, as applicable, all information specified in this section and in the referencing subpart, including reports of periods when monitored parameters are outside their established ranges.

(2) For closed vent systems subject to the requirements of § 63.983, the owner or operator shall submit as part of the periodic report the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) The information recorded in § 63.998(d)(1)(iii)(B) through (E);

(ii) Reports of the times of all periods recorded under § 63.998(d)(1)(ii)(A) when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line; and

(iii) Reports of all times recorded under § 63.998(d)(1)(ii)(B) when maintenance is performed in car-sealed valves, when the seal is broken, when the bypass line valve position is changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out.

(3) For flares subject to this subpart, report all periods when all pilot flames were absent or the flare flame was absent as recorded in § 63.998(a)(1)(i)(C).

(4) For storage vessels, the owner or operator shall include in each periodic report required the information specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For the 6-month period covered by the periodic report, the information recorded in § 63.998(d)(2)(ii)(A) through (C).

(ii) For the time period covered by the periodic report and the previous periodic report, the total number of hours that the control system did not meet the requirements of § 63.983(a), § 63.985(a), or § 63.987(a) due to planned routine maintenance.

(iii) A description of the planned routine maintenance during the next 6-month periodic reporting period that is anticipated to be performed for the control system when it is not expected to meet the required control efficiency. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and expected lengths of maintenance periods.

(5) If a control device other than a flare is used to control emissions from storage vessels or low throughput transfer racks, the periodic report shall describe each occurrence when the monitored parameters were outside of the parameter ranges documented in the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The description shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Identification of the control device for which the measured parameters were outside of the established ranges, and

(ii) The cause for the measured parameters to be outside of the established ranges.

(6) For process vents and transfer racks (except low throughput transfer racks), periodic reports shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Periodic reports shall include the daily average values of monitored parameters, calculated as specified in § 63.998(b)(3)(i) for any days when the daily average value is outside the bounds as defined in § 63.998(c)(2)(iii) or (c)(3)(iii), or the data availability requirements defined in paragraphs (c)(6)(i)(A) through (D) of this section are not met, whether these excursions are excused or unexcused excursions. For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified. An excursion means any of the cases listed in paragraphs (c)(6)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average values pursuant to § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(A), the owner or operator shall report this in the Periodic Report.

(A) When the daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is outside the permitted range.

(B) When the period of control or recovery device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.

(C) When the period of control or recovery device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than one of the hours during the period of operation does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data.

(D) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data as used in paragraphs (c)(6)(i)(B) and (C) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour.

(ii) Report all carbon-bed regeneration cycles during which the parameters recorded under § 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(C) were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status or in the operating permit.

(iii) The provisions of paragraph (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section do not apply to any low throughput transfer rack for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 63.985 or to any storage vessel for which the owner or operator is not required, by the applicable monitoring plan established under § 63.985(c)(1), to keep continuous records. If continuous records are required, the owner or operator shall specify in the monitoring plan whether the provisions of paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (c)(6)(ii) of this section apply.

(iv) If the owner or operator has chosen to use the alternative recordkeeping requirements of § 63.998(b)(5), and has not notified the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status that the alternative recordkeeping provisions are being implemented as specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the Periodic Report submitted immediately preceding implementation of the alternative. The notifications specified in § 63.998(b)(5)(ii) shall be included in the next Periodic Report following the identified event.

(7) As specified in § 63.997(c)(3), if an owner or operator at a facility not required to obtain a title V permit elects at a later date to replace an existing control or recovery device with a different control or recovery device, then the Administrator shall be notified by the owner or operator before implementing the change. This notification may be included in the facility's periodic reporting.
