
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SS - National Emission Standards for Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, Recovery Devices and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 63.999 Notifications and other reports.
####### Performance test and flare compliance assessment report submittal and content requirements.

(2)Performance test and flare compliance assessment reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For performance tests or flare compliance assessments, the Notification of Compliance Status or performance test and flare compliance assessment report shall include one complete test report as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point and other applicable information specified in (a)(2)(iii) of this section. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in applicable sections of this subpart shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(ii) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(iii) The performance test or flare compliance assessment report shall also include the information specified in (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable.

(A) For flare compliance assessments, the owner or operator shall submit the records specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(i).

(B) For nonflare control device and halogen reduction device performance tests as required under § 63.988(b), § 63.990(b), § 63.994(b), or § 63.995(b), also submit the records specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii), as applicable.

(C) For recovery devices also submit the records specified in § 63.998(a)(3), as applicable.
