
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### § 63.1004 Instrument and sensory monitoring for leaks.
####### Instrument monitoring using background adjustments.

(c)The owner or operator may elect to adjust or not to adjust the instrument readings for background. If an owner or operator elects not to adjust instrument readings for background, the owner or operator shall monitor the equipment according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section. In such case, all instrument readings shall be compared directly to the applicable leak definition for the monitored equipment to determine whether there is a leak or to determine compliance with § 63.1011(b) (pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service) or § 63.1012(f) (compressors). If an owner or operator elects to adjust instrument readings for background, the owner or operator shall monitor the equipment according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.

(1) The requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section shall apply.

(2) The background level shall be determined, using the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(3) The instrument probe shall be traversed around all potential leak interfaces as close to the interface as possible (as described in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A).

(4) The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared to the applicable leak definitions for the monitored equipment to determine whether there is a leak or to determine compliance with § 63.1011(b) (pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service) or § 63.1012(f) (compressors).
