
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### ยง 63.1005 Leak repair.
####### Leak repair records.

(e)For each leak detected, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(5) of this section shall be recorded and maintained pursuant to the referencing subpart.

(1) The date of first attempt to repair the leak.

(2) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(3) Maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A at the time the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.

(4) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) and (e)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. The written procedures may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or may be part of a separate document that is maintained at the plant site. In such cases, reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.

(ii) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked on site before depletion and the reason for depletion.

(5) Dates of process unit or affected facility shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.
