
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### ยง 63.1006 Valves in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service standards.
####### Skip period alternatives.

(6)An owner or operator may elect to comply with one of the alternative work practices specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) or (b)(6)(ii) of this section. An owner or operator electing to use one of these skip period alternatives shall comply with paragraphs (b)(6)(iii) and (b)(6)(iv) of this section. Before using either skip period alternative, the owner or operator shall initially comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Monitoring data generated before the regulated source became subject to the referencing subpart that meets the criteria of either ยง 63.1004(b)(1) through (b)(5), or ยง 63.1004(b)(6), may be used to initially qualify for skip period alternatives.

(i) After 2 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0 as determined by the procedure in paragraph (c) of this section, an owner or operator may begin to monitor for leaks once every 6 months.

(ii) After 5 consecutive quarterly leak detection periods with the percent of valves leaking equal to or less than 2.0 as determined by the procedure in paragraph (c) of this section, an owner or operator may begin to monitor for leaks once every year.

(iii) If the percent of valves leaking is greater than 2.0, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, but can elect to comply with paragraph (b)(6) of this section if future percent of valves leaking is again equal to or less than 2.0.

(iv) The owner or operator shall keep a record of the monitoring schedule and the percent of valves found leaking during each monitoring period.
