
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### ยง 63.1006 Valves in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service standards.
####### Allowable percentage alternative.

(5)An owner or operator choosing to comply with the allowable percentage alternative shall have an allowable percentage of leakers no greater than 2.0 percent for each affected facility or process unit and shall comply with paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) A compliance demonstration for each affected facility or process unit or affected facility complying with this alternative shall be conducted initially upon designation, annually, and at other times requested by the Administrator. For each such demonstration, all valves in gas and vapor and light liquid service within the affected facility or process unit shall be monitored within 1 week by the methods specified in ยง 63.1004(b). If an instrument reading exceeds the equipment leak level specified in the referencing subpart, a leak is detected. The leak percentage shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) If an owner or operator decides no longer to comply with this alternative, the owner or operator must notify the Administrator in writing that the work practice standard described in paragraph (b)(3) of this section will be followed.
