
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### ยง 63.1007 Pumps in light liquid service standards.
####### Special provisions for pumps,Dual mechanical seal pumps.

(e)-(1)Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, provided the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(viii) of this section are met.

(i) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, criteria applicable to the presence and frequency of drips and to the sensor that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both. The owner or operator shall keep records at the plant of the design criteria and an explanation of the design criteria, and any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes. This record must be available for review by an inspector.

(ii) Each dual mechanical seal system shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii)(A) through (e)(1)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) Each dual mechanical seal system is operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times (except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction) greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or

(B) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of subpart SS of this part; or

(C) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.

(iii) The barrier fluid is not in light liquid service.

(iv) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(v) Each pump is checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal. The owner or operator shall document that the inspection was conducted and the date of the inspection. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedure specified in either paragraph (e)(1)(v)(A) or (e)(1)(v)(B) of this section prior to the next required inspection.

(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump as specified in ยง 63.1004(b) to determine if there is a leak of regulated material in the barrier fluid; if an instrument reading of 10,000 parts per million or greater is measured, a leak is detected and shall be repaired using the procedures in ยง 63.1005; or

(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping.

(vi) If indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal exceed the criteria established in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, or if based on the criteria established in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, a leak is detected.

(vii) Each sensor as described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section is observed daily or is equipped with an alarm unless the pump is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.

(viii) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section, it shall be repaired as specified in ยง 63.1005.
