
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### ยง 63.1013 Sampling connection systems standards.
####### Equipment design and operation.

(c)Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed vent system except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section shall meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.

(1) The system shall return the purged process fluid directly to a process line or fuel gas system meeting the compliance determinations in ยง 63.1015 or ยง 63.1002(b) as appropriate; or

(2) Collect and recycle the purged process fluid to a process; or

(3) Be designed and operated to capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that meets the requirements of ยง 63.1015; or

(4) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to a system or facility identified in paragraph (c)(4)(i), (c)(4)(ii), or (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

(i) A waste management unit as defined in 40 CFR 63.111 or 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, if the waste management unit is complying with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to group 1 wastewater streams. If the purged process fluid does not contain any organic HAP listed in table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the waste management unit need not be subject to, and operated in compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to subject wastewater steams provided the facility has a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or sends the wastewater to an NPDES-permitted facility.

(ii) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266; or

(iii) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.

(5) Containers that are part of a closed-purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
