
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TT - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 1
###### § 63.1018 Reporting requirements.
####### Periodic reports.

(a)The owner or operator shall report the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2) of this section, as applicable, in the periodic report specified in the referencing subpart.

(1) The initial Periodic Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iv) and (a)(2) of this section.

(i) Process unit or affected facility identification.

(ii) Number of valves subject to the requirements of § 63.1006, excluding those valves designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 63.1006(e)(4).

(iii) Number of pumps subject to the requirements of § 63.1007, excluding those pumps designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 63.1007(e)(2) and those pumps complying with the closed vent system provisions of § 63.1007(e)(3).

(iv) Number of compressors subject to the requirements of § 63.1012, excluding those compressors designated for no detectable emissions under the provisions of § 63.1012(f) and those compressors complying with the closed vent system provisions of § 63.1012(e).

(2) Each periodic report shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(iv) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Process unit identification.

(ii) For each month during the semiannual reporting period,

(A) Number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.1006(b),

(B) Number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.1006(d),

(C) Number of pumps for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.1007(b) and § 63.1007(e)(1)(vi),

(D) Number of pumps for which leaks were not repaired as required in §§ 63.1007(d) and (e)(5),

(E) Number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.1012(d)(1),

(F) Number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.1012(d)(1), and

(G) The facts that explain each delay of repair and, where appropriate, why the repair was technically infeasible without a process unit or affected facility shutdown.

(iii) Dates of process unit or affected facility shutdowns which occurred within the periodic report reporting period.

(iv) Revisions to items reported according to paragraph (a)(1) of this section if changes have occurred since the initial report or subsequent revisions to the initial report.
