
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### § 63.1024 Leak repair.
####### Delay of repair.

(d)Delay of repair is allowed for any of the conditions specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section. The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why the repair was technically infeasible without a process unit shutdown.

(1) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed if repair within 15 days after a leak is detected is technically infeasible without a process unit or affected facility shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur as soon as practical, but no later than the end of the next process unit or affected facility shutdown, except as provided in paragraph (d)(5) of this section.

(2) Delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed for equipment that is isolated from the process and that does not remain in regulated material service.

(3) Delay of repair for valves, connectors, and agitators is also allowed if the provisions of paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (d)(3)(ii) of this section are met.

(i) The owner or operator determines that emissions of purged material resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and

(ii) When repair procedures are effected, the purged material is collected and destroyed, collected and routed to a fuel gas system or process, or recovered in a control device complying with either § 63.1034 or § 63.1021(b) of this part.

(4) Delay of repair for pumps is also allowed if the provisions of paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (d)(4)(ii) of this section are met.

(i) Repair requires replacing the existing seal design with a new system that the owner or operator has determined under the provisions of § 63.1035(d) will provide better performance or one of the specifications of paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) through (d)(4)(i)(C) of this section are met.

(A) A dual mechanical seal system that meets the requirements of § 63.1026(e)(1) will be installed;

(B) A pump that meets the requirements of § 63.1026(e)(2) will be installed; or

(C) A system that routes emissions to a process or a fuel gas system or a closed vent system and control device that meets the requirements of § 63.1026(e)(3) will be installed; and

(ii) Repair is completed as soon as practical, but not later than 6 months after the leak was detected.

(5) Delay of repair beyond a process unit or affected facility shutdown will be allowed for a valve if valve assembly replacement is necessary during the process unit or affected facility shutdown, and valve assembly supplies have been depleted, and valve assembly supplies had been sufficiently stocked before the supplies were depleted. Delay of repair beyond the second process unit or affected facility shutdown will not be allowed unless the third process unit or affected facility shutdown occurs sooner than 6 months after the first process unit or affected facility shutdown.
