
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1025 Valves in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service standards.
####### Valve subgrouping.

(4)For a process unit or a group of process units to which this subpart applies, an owner or operator may choose to subdivide the valves in the applicable process unit or group of process units and apply the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section to each subgroup. If the owner or operator elects to subdivide the valves in the applicable process unit or group of process units, then the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(viii) of this section apply.

(i) The overall performance of total valves in the applicable process unit or group of process units to be subdivided shall be less than 2 percent leaking valves, as detected according to paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section and as calculated according to paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) and (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) The initial assignment or subsequent reassignment of valves to subgroups shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (b)(4)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall determine which valves are assigned to each subgroup. Valves with less than one year of monitoring data or valves not monitored within the last twelve months must be placed initially into the most frequently monitored subgroup until at least one year of monitoring data have been obtained.

(B) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a less frequently monitored subgroup to a more frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned were monitored during the most recent monitoring period for the less frequently monitored subgroup. The monitoring results must be included with that less frequently monitored subgroup's associated percent leaking valves calculation for that monitoring event.

(C) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a more frequently monitored subgroup to a less frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned have not leaked for the period of the less frequently monitored subgroup (e.g., for the last 12 months, if the valve or group of valves is to be reassigned to a subgroup being monitored annually). Nonrepairable valves may not be reassigned to a less frequently monitored subgroup.

(iii) The owner or operator shall determine every 6 months if the overall performance of total valves in the applicable process unit or group of process units is less than 2 percent leaking valves and so indicate the performance in the next Periodic Report. If the overall performance of total valves in the applicable process unit or group of process units is 2 percent leaking valves or greater, the owner or operator shall no longer subgroup and shall revert to the program required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section for that applicable process unit or group of process units. An owner or operator can again elect to comply with the valve subgrouping procedures of paragraph (b)(4) of this section if future overall performance of total valves in the process unit or group of process units is again less than 2 percent. The overall performance of total valves in the applicable process unit or group of process units shall be calculated as a weighted average of the percent leaking valves of each subgroup according to Equation number 1:

(iv) The owner or operator shall maintain records specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(iv)(A) through (b)(4)(iv)(D) of this section.

(A) Which valves are assigned to each subgroup,

(B) Monitoring results and calculations made for each subgroup for each monitoring period,

(C) Which valves are reassigned, the last monitoring result prior to reassignment, and when they were reassigned, and

(D) The results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required in paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.

(v) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator no later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the next monitoring period of the decision to subgroup valves. The notification shall identify the participating process units and the number of valves assigned to each subgroup, if applicable, and may be included in the next Periodic Report.

(vi) The owner or operator shall submit in the periodic reports the information specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(vi)(A) and (b)(4)(vi)(B).

(A) Total number of valves in each subgroup, and

(B) Results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required by paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section.

(vii) To determine the monitoring frequency for each subgroup, the calculation procedures of paragraph (c)(2) of this section shall be used.

(viii) Except for the overall performance calculations required by paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (iii) of this section, each subgroup shall be treated as if it were a process unit for the purposes of applying the provisions of this section.
