
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1025 Valves in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service standards.
####### Leak repair.

(d)(1) If a leak is determined pursuant to paragraph (b), (e)(1), or (e)(2) of this section, then the leak shall be repaired using the procedures in ยง 63.1024, as applicable.

(2) After a leak has been repaired, the valve shall be monitored at least once within the first 3 months after its repair. The monitoring required by this paragraph is in addition to the monitoring required to satisfy the definition of repaired and first attempt at repair.

(i) The monitoring shall be conducted as specified in ยง 63.1023(b) and (c) of this section, as appropriate, to determine whether the valve has resumed leaking.

(ii) Periodic monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph, if the timing of the monitoring period coincides with the time specified in this paragraph. Alternatively, other monitoring may be performed to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph, regardless of whether the timing of the monitoring period for periodic monitoring coincides with the time specified in this paragraph.

(iii) If a leak is detected by monitoring that is conducted pursuant to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall follow the provisions of paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(A) and (d)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, to determine whether that valve must be counted as a leaking valve for purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(A) If the owner or operator elected to use periodic monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve.

(B) If the owner or operator elected to use other monitoring, prior to the periodic monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section, to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve unless it is repaired and shown by periodic monitoring not to be leaking.
