
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1025 Valves in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service standards.
####### Monitoring frequency.

(3)The owner or operator shall monitor valves for leaks at the intervals specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(v) of this section and shall keep the record specified in paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section.

(i) If at least the greater of 2 valves or 2 percent of the valves in a process unit leak, as calculated according to paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once per month.

(ii) At process units with less than the greater of 2 leaking valves or 2 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once each quarter, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) through (b)(3)(v) of this section. Monitoring data generated before the regulated source became subject to the referencing subpart and meeting the criteria of either ยง 63.1023(b)(1) through (b)(5), or ยง 63.1023(b)(6), may be used to qualify initially for less frequent monitoring under paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) through (b)(3)(v) of this section.

(iii) At process units with less than 1 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every two quarters

(iv) At process units with less than 0.5 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every four quarters.

(v) At process units with less than 0.25 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 years.

(vi) The owner or operator shall keep a record of the monitoring schedule for each process unit.
