
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1027 Connectors in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service standards.
####### Monitoring periods.

(3)The owner or operator shall perform monitoring, subsequent to the initial monitoring required in paragraph (a) of this section, as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iii) of this section, and shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3)(iv) and (b)(3)(v) of this section. The required period in which monitoring must be conducted shall be determined from paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iii) of this section using the monitoring results from the preceding monitoring period. The percent leaking connectors shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(i) If the percent leaking connectors in the process unit was greater than or equal to 0.5 percent, then monitor within 12 months (1 year).

(ii) If the percent leaking connectors in the process unit was greater than or equal to 0.25 percent but less than 0.5 percent, then monitor within 4 years. An owner or operator may comply with the requirements of this paragraph by monitoring at least 40 percent of the connectors within 2 years of the start of the monitoring period, provided all connectors have been monitored by the end of the 4 year monitoring period.

(iii) If the percent leaking connectors in the process unit was less than 0.25 percent, then monitor as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section and either paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) or (b)(3)(iii)(C) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) An owner or operator shall monitor at least 50 percent of the connectors within 4 years of the start of the monitoring period.

(B) If the percent leaking connectors calculated from the monitoring results in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is greater than or equal to 0.35 percent of the monitored connectors, the owner or operator shall monitor as soon as practical, but within the next 6 months, all connectors that have not yet been monitored during the monitoring period. At the conclusion of monitoring, a new monitoring period shall be started pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section, based on the percent leaking connectors of the total monitored connectors.

(C) If the percent leaking connectors calculated from the monitoring results in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(A) of this section is less than 0.35 percent of the monitored connectors, the owner or operator shall monitor all connectors that have not yet been monitored within 8 years of the start of the monitoring period.

(iv) If, during the monitoring conducted pursuant to paragraph (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(iii) of this section, a connector is found to be leaking, it shall be re-monitored once within 90 days after repair to confirm that it is not leaking.

(v) The owner or operator shall keep a record of the start date and end date of each monitoring period under this section for each process unit.
