
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### § 63.1032 Sampling connection systems standards.
####### Equipment design and operation.

(c)Each closed-purge, closed-loop, or closed vent system as required in paragraph (b) of this section shall meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.

(1) The system shall return the purged process fluid directly to a process line or to a fuel gas system that meets the requirements of either § 63.1034 or § 63.1021(b); or

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Be designed and operated to capture and transport all the purged process fluid to a control device that meets the requirements of either § 63.1034 or § 63.1021(b); or

(4) Collect, store, and transport the purged process fluid to a system or facility identified in paragraph (c)(4)(i), (c)(4)(ii), or (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

(i) A waste management unit as defined in 40 CFR 63.111 or subpart G, if the waste management unit is subject to and operating in compliance with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to group 1 wastewater streams. If the purged process fluid does not contain any regulated material listed in Table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the waste management unit need not be subject to, and operated in compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, applicable to group 1 wastewater steams provided the facility has a National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit or sends the wastewater to an NPDES-permitted facility.

(ii) A treatment, storage, or disposal facility subject to regulation under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, or 266; or

(iii) A facility permitted, licensed, or registered by a State to manage municipal or industrial solid waste, if the process fluids are not hazardous waste as defined in 40 CFR part 261.

(5) Containers that are part of a closed purge system must be covered or closed when not being filled or emptied.
