
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1034 Closed vent systems and control devices; or emissions routed to a fuel gas system or process standards.
####### Compliance standard.

(b)(1) Owners or operators routing emissions from equipment leaks to a fuel gas system or process shall comply with the provisions of subpart SS of this part, except as provided in ยง 63.1002(b).

(2) Owners or operators of closed vent systems and control devices used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the provisions of subpart SS of this part and (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section, except as provided in ยง 63.1002(b).

(i) Nonflare control devices shall be designed and operated to reduce emissions of regulated material vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent. The 20 parts per million by volume standard is not applicable to the provisions of ยง 63.1016.

(ii) Enclosed combustion devices shall be designed and operated to reduce emissions of regulated material vented to them with an efficiency of 95 percent or greater, or to an exit concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, on a dry basis, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, whichever is less stringent, or to provide a minimum residence time of 0.50 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C (1400 &#xB0;F).

(iii) Flares used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements of subpart SS of this part.
