
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1035 Quality improvement program for pumps.
####### Pump or pump seal replacement.

(8)Three years after the start of the quality improvement program for plant sites with 400 or more valves or 100 or more employees and at the start of the fourth year of the quality improvement program for plant sites with less than 400 valves and less than 100 employees, the owner or operator shall replace, as described in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) and (d)(8)(ii) of this section, the pumps or pump seals that are not superior emission performance technology with pumps or pump seals that have been identified as superior emission performance technology and that comply with the quality assurance standards for the pump category. Superior emission performance technology is that category or design of pumps or pump seals with emission performance that when combined with appropriate process, operating, and maintenance practices, will result in less than 10 percent leaking pumps for specific applications in the process unit, affected facility, or plant site. Superior emission performance technology includes material or design changes to the existing pump, pump seal, seal support system, installation of multiple mechanical seals or equivalent, or pump replacement.

(i) Pumps or pump seals shall be replaced at the rate of 20 percent per year based on the total number of pumps in light liquid service. The calculated value shall be rounded to the nearest nonzero integer value. The minimum number of pumps or pump seals shall be one. Pump replacement shall continue until all pumps subject to the requirements of ยง 63.1026 are pumps determined to be superior performance technology.

(ii) The owner or operator may delay replacement of pump seals or pumps with superior technology until the next planned process unit or affected facility shutdown, provided the number of pump seals and pumps replaced is equivalent to the 20 percent or greater annual replacement rate.

(iii) The pumps shall be maintained as specified in the quality assurance program.
