
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1035 Quality improvement program for pumps.
####### Trial evaluation program.

(6)A trial evaluation program shall be conducted at each plant site for which the data analysis does not identify use of superior performing pump seal technology or pumps that can be applied to the areas identified as having poorer than average performance, except as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(v) of this section. The trial program shall be used to evaluate the feasibility of using in the process unit or affected facility (or plant site) the pump designs or seal technologies, and operating and maintenance practices that have been identified by others as having low emission performance.

(i) The trial evaluation program shall include on-line trials of pump seal technologies or pump designs and operating and maintenance practices that have been identified in the available literature or in analysis by others as having the ability to perform with leak rates below 10 percent in similar services, as having low probability of failure, or as having no external actuating mechanism in contact with the process fluid. If any of the candidate superior performing pump seal technologies or pumps is not included in the performance trials, the reasons for rejecting specific technologies from consideration shall be documented as required in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The number of pump seal technologies or pumps in the trial evaluation program shall be the lesser of 1 percent or two pumps for programs involving single process units or affected facilities and the lesser of 1 percent or five pumps for programs involving a plant site or groups of process units or affected facilities. The minimum number of pumps or pump seal technologies in a trial program shall be one.

(iii) The trial evaluation program shall specify and include documentation of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(iii)(A) through (d)(6)(iii)(D) of this section.

(A) The candidate superior performing pump seal designs or technologies to be evaluated, the stages for evaluating the identified candidate pump designs or pump seal technologies, including the time period necessary to test the applicability;

(B) The frequency of monitoring or inspection of the equipment;

(C) The range of operating conditions over which the component will be evaluated; and

(D) Conclusions regarding the emission performance and the appropriate operating conditions and services for the trial pump seal technologies or pumps.

(iv) The performance trials shall initially be conducted, at least, for a 6-month period beginning not later than 18 months after the start of the quality improvement program. No later than 24 months after the start of the quality improvement program, the owner or operator shall have identified pump seal technologies or pump designs that, combined with appropriate process, operating, and maintenance practices, operate with low emission performance for specific applications in the process unit or affected facility. The owner or operator shall continue to conduct performance trials as long as no superior performing design or technology has been identified, except as provided in paragraph (d)(6)(vi) of this section. The initial list of superior emission performance pump designs or pump seal technologies shall be amended in the future, as appropriate, as additional information and experience are obtained.

(v) Any plant site with fewer than 400 valves and owned by a corporation with fewer than 100 employees shall be exempt from trial evaluations of pump seals or pump designs. Plant sites exempt from the trial evaluations of pumps shall begin the pump seal or pump replacement program at the start of the fourth year of the quality improvement program.

(vi) An owner or operator who has conducted performance trials on all alternative superior emission performance technologies suitable for the required applications in the process unit or affected facility may stop conducting performance trials provided that a superior performing design or technology has been demonstrated or there are no technically feasible alternative superior technologies remaining. The owner or operator shall prepare an engineering evaluation documenting the physical, chemical, or engineering basis for the judgment that the superior emission performance technology is technically infeasible or demonstrating that it would not reduce emissions.
