
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1035 Quality improvement program for pumps.
####### Data analysis.

(5)(i)The owner or operator shall analyze the data collected to comply with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section to determine the services, operating or maintenance practices, and pump or pump seal designs or technologies that have poorer than average emission performance and those that have better than average emission performance. The analysis shall determine if specific trouble areas can be identified on the basis of service, operating conditions or maintenance practices, equipment design, or other process-specific factors.

(ii) The analysis shall also be used to determine if there are superior performing pump or pump seal technologies that are applicable to the service(s), operating conditions, or pump or pump seal designs associated with poorer than average emission performance. A superior performing pump or pump seal technology is one with a leak frequency of less than 10 percent for specific applications in the process unit, affected facility, or plant site. A candidate superior performing pump or pump seal technology is one demonstrated or reported in the available literature or through a group study as having low emission performance and as being capable of achieving less than 10 percent leaking pumps in the process unit or affected facility (or plant site).

(iii) The analysis shall include consideration of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(iii)(A) through (d)(5)(iii)(C) of this section.

(A) The data obtained from the inspections of pumps and pump seals removed from the process unit or affected facility due to leaks;

(B) Information from the available literature and from the experience of other plant sites that will identify pump designs or technologies and operating conditions associated with low emission performance for specific services; and

(C) Information on limitations on the service conditions for the pump seal technology operating conditions as well as information on maintenance procedures to ensure continued low emission performance.

(iv) The data analysis may be conducted through an inter- or intra-company program (or through some combination of the two approaches) and may be for a single process unit, a plant site, a company, or a group of process units.

(v) The first analysis of the data shall be completed no later than 18 months after the start of the quality improvement program. The first analysis shall be performed using data collected for a minimum of 6 months. An analysis of the data shall be done each year the process unit or affected facility is in the quality improvement program.
