
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1035 Quality improvement program for pumps.
####### Quality assurance program.

(7)Each owner or operator shall prepare and implement a pump quality assurance program that details purchasing specifications and maintenance procedures for all pumps and pump seals in the process unit or affected facility. The quality assurance program may establish any number of categories, or classes, of pumps as needed to distinguish among operating conditions and services associated with poorer than average emission performance as well as those associated with better than average emission performance. The quality assurance program shall be developed considering the findings of the data analysis required under paragraph (d)(5) of this section; and, if applicable, the findings of the trial evaluation required in paragraph (d)(6) of this section; and the operating conditions in the process unit or affected facility. The quality assurance program shall be updated each year as long as the process unit or affected facility has the greater of either 10 percent or more leaking pumps or has three leaking pumps.

(i) The quality assurance program shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(7)(i)(A) through (d)(7)(i)(D) of this section.

(A) Establish minimum design standards for each category of pumps or pump seal technology. The design standards shall specify known critical parameters such as tolerance, manufacturer, materials of construction, previous usage, or other applicable identified critical parameters;

(B) Require that all equipment orders specify the design standard (or minimum tolerances) for the pump or the pump seal;

(C) Provide for an audit procedure for quality control of purchased equipment to ensure conformance with purchase specifications. The audit program may be conducted by the owner or operator of the plant site or process unit or affected facility, or by a designated representative; and

(D) Detail off-line pump maintenance and repair procedures. These procedures shall include provisions to ensure that rebuilt or refurbished pumps and pump seals will meet the design specifications for the pump category and will operate so that emissions are minimized.

(ii) The quality assurance program shall be established no later than the start of the third year of the quality improvement program for plant sites with 400 or more valves or 100 or more employees; and no later than the start of the fourth year of the quality improvement program for plant sites with less than 400 valves and less than 100 employees.
