
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1036 Alternative means of emission limitation: Batch processes.
####### Gas pressure test procedure for pressure or vacuum loss.

(5)The procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (b)(5)(v) of this section shall be used to pressure test batch product-process equipment for pressure or vacuum loss to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(i) The batch product-process equipment train shall be pressurized with a gas to a pressure less than the set pressure of any safety relief devices or valves or to a pressure slightly above the operating pressure of the equipment, or alternatively the equipment shall be placed under a vacuum.

(ii) Once the test pressure is obtained, the gas source or vacuum source shall be shut off.

(iii) The test shall continue for not less than 15 minutes unless it can be determined in a shorter period of time that the allowable rate of pressure drop or of pressure rise was exceeded. The pressure in the batch product-process equipment shall be measured after the gas or vacuum source is shut off and at the end of the test period. The rate of change in pressure in the batch product-process equipment shall be calculated using the following equation:

(iv) The pressure shall be measured using a pressure measurement device (gauge, manometer, or equivalent) that has a precision of +/-2.5 millimeter mercury (0.10 inch of mercury) in the range of test pressure and is capable of measuring pressures up to the relief set pressure of the pressure relief device. If such a pressure measurement device is not reasonably available, the owner or operator shall use a pressure measurement device with a precision of at least +/-10 percent of the test pressure of the equipment and shall extend the duration of the test for the time necessary to detect a pressure loss or rise that equals a rate of 1 pound per square inch gauge per hour (7 kilopascals per hour).

(v) An alternative procedure may be used for leak testing the equipment if the owner or operator demonstrates the alternative procedure is capable of detecting a pressure loss or rise.
