
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1035 Quality improvement program for pumps.
####### QIP recordkeeping.

(e)In addition to the records required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall maintain records for the period of the quality improvement program for the process unit or affected facility as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(6) of this section.

(1) When using a pump quality improvement program as specified in this section, record the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) The rolling average percent leaking pumps.

(ii) Documentation of all inspections conducted under the requirements of paragraph (d)(4) of this section, and any recommendations for design or specification changes to reduce leak frequency.

(iii) The beginning and ending dates while meeting the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) If a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak, the reason for the delay and the expected date of successful repair.

(3) Records of all analyses required in paragraph (d) of this section. The records will include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iv) of this section.

(i) A list identifying areas associated with poorer than average performance and the associated service characteristics of the stream, the operating conditions and maintenance practices.

(ii) The reasons for rejecting specific candidate superior emission performing pump technology from performance trials.

(iii) The list of candidate superior emission performing valve or pump technologies, and documentation of the performance trial program items required under paragraph (d)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iv) The beginning date and duration of performance trials of each candidate superior emission performing technology.

(4) All records documenting the quality assurance program for pumps as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section, including records indicating that all pumps replaced or modified during the period of the quality improvement program are in compliance with the quality assurance.

(5) Records documenting compliance with the 20 percent or greater annual replacement rate for pumps as specified in paragraph (d)(8) of this section.

(6) Information and data to show the corporation has fewer than 100 employees, including employees providing professional and technical contracted services.
