
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1036 Alternative means of emission limitation: Batch processes.
####### Pressure testing recordkeeping.

(7)The owner or operator of a batch product process who elects to pressure test the batch product process equipment train to demonstrate compliance with this subpart shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (b)(7)(v) of this section.

(i) The identification of each product, or product code, produced during the calendar year. It is not necessary to identify individual items of equipment in a batch product process equipment train.

(ii) Physical tagging of the equipment to identify that it is in regulated material service and subject to the provisions of this subpart is not required. Equipment in a batch product process subject to the provisions of this subpart may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.

(iii) The dates of each pressure test required in paragraph (b) of this section, the test pressure, and the pressure drop observed during the test.

(iv) Records of any visible, audible, or olfactory evidence of fluid loss.

(v) When a batch product process equipment train does not pass two consecutive pressure tests, the information specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(v)(A) through (b)(7)(v)(E) of this section shall be recorded in a log and kept for 2 years:

(A) The date of each pressure test and the date of each leak repair attempt.

(B) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(C) The reason for the delay of repair.

(D) The expected date for delivery of the replacement equipment and the actual date of delivery of the replacement equipment; and

(E) The date of successful repair.
