
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1036 Alternative means of emission limitation: Batch processes.
####### Pressure test procedure using test liquid.

(6)The procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iv) of this section shall be used to pressure-test batch product-process equipment using a liquid to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) The batch product-process equipment train, or section of the equipment train, shall be filled with the test liquid (e.g., water, alcohol) until normal operating pressure is obtained. Once the equipment is filled, the liquid source shall be shut off.

(ii) The test shall be conducted for a period of at least 60 minutes, unless it can be determined in a shorter period of time that the test is a failure.

(iii) Each seal in the equipment being tested shall be inspected for indications of liquid dripping or other indications of fluid loss. If there are any indications of liquids dripping or of fluid loss, a leak is detected.

(iv) An alternative procedure may be used for leak testing the equipment, if the owner or operator demonstrates the alternative procedure is capable of detecting losses of fluid.
