
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### § 63.1039 Reporting requirements.
####### Initial Compliance Status Report.

(a)Each owner or operator shall submit an Initial Compliance Status Report according to the procedures in the referencing subpart. The notification shall include the information listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section, as applicable.

(1) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iv) of this section for each process unit or affected facility subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(i) Process unit or affected facility identification.

(ii) Number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) excluding equipment in vacuum service.

(iii) Method of compliance with the standard (e.g., "monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(iv) Planned schedule for requirements in §§ 63.1025 and 63.1026.

(2) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section for each process unit or affected facility subject to the requirements of § 63.1036(b).

(i) Batch products or product codes subject to the provisions of this subpart, and

(ii) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(3) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section for each process unit or affected facility subject to the requirements in § 63.1037.

(i) Process unit or affected facility identification.

(ii) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of § 63.1034 of this part.
