
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### ยง 63.1036 Alternative means of emission limitation: Batch processes.
####### Added equipment recordkeeping.

(d)(1) For batch product-process units or affected facilities that the owner or operator elects to monitor as provided under paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall prepare a list of equipment added to batch product process units or affected facilities since the last monitoring period required in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(3)(iii) of this section.

(2) Maintain records demonstrating the proportion of the time during the calendar year the equipment is in use in a batch process that is subject to the provisions of this subpart. Examples of suitable documentation are records of time in use for individual pieces of equipment or average time in use for the process unit or affected facility. These records are not required if the owner or operator does not adjust monitoring frequency by the time in use, as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.

(3) Record and keep pursuant to the referencing subpart and this subpart, the date and results of the monitoring required in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section for equipment added to a batch product-process unit or affected facility since the last monitoring period required in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(3)(iii) of this section. If no leaking equipment is found during this monitoring, the owner or operator shall record that the inspection was performed. Records of the actual monitoring results are not required.
