
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### § 63.1038 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### General equipment leak records.

(b)(1) As specified in § 63.1022(a) and (b), the owner or operator shall keep general and specific equipment identification if the equipment is not physically tagged and the owner or operator is electing to identify the equipment subject to this subpart through written documentation such as a log or other designation.

(2) The owner or operator shall keep a written plan as specified in § 63.1022(c)(4) for any equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor.

(3) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the identity and an explanation as specified in § 63.1022(d)(2) for any equipment that is designated as unsafe-to-repair.

(4) As specified in § 63.1022(e), the owner or operator shall maintain the identity of compressors operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million.

(5) The owner or operator shall keep records associated with the determination that equipment is in heavy liquid service as specified in § 63.1022(f).

(6) The owner or operator shall keep records for leaking equipment as specified in § 63.1023(e)(2).

(7) The owner or operator shall keep records for leak repair as specified in § 63.1024(f) and records for delay of repair as specified in § 63.1024(d).
