
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### § 63.1036 Alternative means of emission limitation: Batch processes.
####### Equipment monitoring.

(c)The following requirements shall be met if an owner or operator elects to monitor the equipment in a batch process to detect leaks by the method specified in § 63.1023(b) and, as applicable, § 63.1023(c), to demonstrate compliance with this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.1025 through 63.1035 as modified by paragraphs (c)(2) through (c)(4) of this section.

(2) The equipment shall be monitored for leaks by the method specified in § 63.1023(b) and, as applicable, § 63.1023(c), when the equipment is in regulated material service or is in use with any other detectable material.

(3) The equipment shall be monitored for leaks as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iv) of this section.

(i) Each time the equipment is reconfigured for the production of a new product, the reconfigured equipment shall be monitored for leaks within 30 days of start-up of the process. This initial monitoring of reconfigured equipment shall not be included in determining percent leaking equipment in the process unit or affected facility.

(ii) Connectors shall be monitored in accordance with the requirements in § 63.1027.

(iii) Equipment other than connectors shall be monitored at the frequencies specified in table 1 to this subpart. The operating time shall be determined as the proportion of the year the batch product-process that is subject to the provisions of this subpart is operating.

(iv) The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section are not requirements for monitoring at specific intervals and can be adjusted to accommodate process operations. An owner or operator may monitor anytime during the specified monitoring period (e.g., month, quarter, year), provided the monitoring is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the last monitoring campaign. For example, if the equipment is not operating during the scheduled monitoring period, the monitoring can be done during the next period when the process is operating.

(4) If a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practical but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected, except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section.
