
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UU - National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks - Control Level 2 Standards
###### § 63.1039 Reporting requirements.
####### Periodic Reports.

(b)The owner or operator shall report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(8) of this section, as applicable, in the Periodic Report specified in the referencing subpart.

(1) For the equipment specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(v) of this section, report in a summary format by equipment type, the number of components for which leaks were detected and for valves, pumps and connectors show the percent leakers, and the total number of components monitored. Also include the number of leaking components that were not repaired as required by § 63.1024, and for valves and connectors, identify the number of components that are determined by § 63.1025(c)(3) to be nonrepairable.

(i) Valves in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service pursuant to § 63.1025(b) and (c).

(ii) Pumps in light liquid service pursuant to § 63.1026(b) and (c).

(iii) Connectors in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service pursuant to § 63.1027(b) and (c).

(iv) Agitators in gas and vapor service and in light liquid service pursuant to § 63.1028(c).

(v) Compressors pursuant to § 63.1031(d).

(2) Where any delay of repair is utilized pursuant to § 63.1024(d), report that delay of repair has occurred and report the number of instances of delay of repair.

(3) If applicable, report the valve subgrouping information specified in § 63.1025(b)(4)(iv).

(4) For pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service pursuant to § 63.1030(b) and for compressors pursuant to § 63.1031(f) that are to be operated at a leak detection instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million, report the results of all monitoring to show compliance conducted within the semiannual reporting period.

(5) Report, if applicable, the initiation of a monthly monitoring program for valves pursuant to § 63.1025(b)(3)(i).

(6) Report, if applicable, the initiation of a quality improvement program for pumps pursuant to § 63.1035.

(7) Where the alternative means of emissions limitation for batch processes is utilized, report the information listed in § 63.1036(f).

(8) Report the information listed in paragraph (a) of this section for the Initial Compliance Status Report for process units or affected facilities with later compliance dates. Report any revisions to items reported in an earlier Initial Compliance Status Report if the method of compliance has changed since the last report.
