
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VV - National Emission Standards for Oil-Water Separators and Organic-Water Separators
###### ยง 63.1046 Test methods and procedures.

(a) Procedure for determining no detectable organic emissions for the purpose of complying with this subpart.

(1) The test shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Each potential leak interface (i.e., a location where organic vapor leakage could occur) on the cover and associated closure devices shall be checked. Potential leak interfaces that are associated with covers and closure devices include, but are not limited to: the interface of the cover and its foundation mounting; the periphery of any opening on the cover and its associated closure device; and the sealing seat interface on a spring-loaded pressure-relief valve.

(2) The test shall be performed when the unit contains a material having a total organic concentration representative of the range of concentrations for the materials expected to be managed in the unit. During the test, the cover and closure devices shall be secured in the closed position.

(3) The detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the organic constituents in the material placed in the unit, not for each individual organic constituent.

(4) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(5) Calibration gases shall be as follows:

(i) Zero air (less than 10 ppmv hydrocarbon in air); and

(ii) A mixture of methane or n-hexane in air at a concentration of approximately, but less than 10,000 ppmv.

(6) An owner or operator may choose to adjust or not adjust the detection instrument readings to account for the background organic concentration level. If an owner or operator chooses to adjust the instrument readings for the background level, the background level value must be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(7) Each potential leak interface shall be checked by traversing the instrument probe around the potential leak interface as close to the interface as possible, as described in Method 21. In the case when the configuration of the cover or closure device prevents a complete traverse of the interface, all accessible portions of the interface shall be sampled. In the case when the configuration of the closure device prevents any sampling at the interface and the device is equipped with an enclosed extension or horn (e.g., some pressure relief devices), the instrument probe inlet shall be placed at approximately the center of the exhaust area to the atmosphere.

(8) An owner or operator must determine if a potential leak interface operates with no detectable emissions using the applicable procedure specified in paragraph (a)(8)(i) or (a)(8)(ii) of this section.

(i) If an owner or operator chooses not to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, then the maximum organic concentration value measured by the detection instrument is compared directly to the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.

(ii) If an owner or operator chooses to adjust the detection instrument readings for the background organic concentration level, the value of the arithmetic difference between the maximum organic concentration value measured by the instrument and the background organic concentration value as determined in paragraph (a)(6) of this section is compared with the applicable value for the potential leak interface as specified in paragraph (a)(9) of this section.

(9) A potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable emissions using the applicable criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) and (a)(9)(ii) of this section.

(i) For a potential leak interface other than a seal around a shaft that passes through a cover opening, the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (a)(8) is less than 500 ppmv.

(ii) For a seal around a shaft that passes through a cover opening, the potential leak interface is determined to operate with no detectable organic emissions if the organic concentration value determined in paragraph (a)(8) is less than 10,000 ppmv.

(b) Procedure for performing floating roof seal gap measurements for the purpose of complying with this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the total surface area of gaps in the primary seal and in the secondary seal individually.

(2) The seal gap measurements shall be performed at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is floating off the roof supports.

(3) Seal gaps, if any, shall be measured around the entire perimeter of the floating roof in each place where 0.32-centimeter (cm) (inch) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the wall of the separator and measure the circumferential distance of each such location.

(4) For a seal gap measured under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the gap surface area shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the separator wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.

(5) The total gap area shall be calculated by adding the gap surface areas determined for each identified gap location for the primary seal and the secondary seal individually, and then dividing the sum for each seal type by the nominal perimeter of the separator basin. These total gap areas for the primary seal and secondary seal then are compared to the respective standards for the seal type as specified in ยง 63.1043(b)(2) of this subpart.
