
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VV - National Emission Standards for Oil-Water Separators and Organic-Water Separators
###### ยง 63.1042 Standards - Separator fixed roof.

(a) This section applies to owners and operators subject to this subpart and controlling air emissions from an oil-water separator or organic-water separator using a fixed roof.

(b) The separator shall be equipped with a fixed roof designed to meet the following specifications:

(1) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be designed to form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid in the separator.

(2) The fixed roof shall be installed in a manner such that there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces between roof section joints or between the interface of the roof edge and the separator wall.

(3) Each opening in the fixed roof shall be equipped with a closure device designed to operate such that when the closure device is secured in the closed position there are no visible cracks, holes, gaps, or other open spaces in the closure device or between the perimeter of the opening and the closure device.

(4) The fixed roof and its closure devices shall be made of suitable materials that will minimize exposure of the regulated-material to the atmosphere, to the extent practical, and will maintain the integrity of the equipment throughout its intended service life. Factors to be considered when selecting the materials for and designing the fixed roof and closure devices shall include: organic vapor permeability; the effects of any contact with the liquid and its vapors managed in the separator; the effects of outdoor exposure to wind, moisture, and sunlight; and the operating practices used for the separator on which the fixed roof is installed.

(c) Whenever a regulated-material is in the separator, the fixed roof shall be installed with each closure device secured in the closed position except as follows:

(1) Opening of closure devices or removal of the fixed roof is allowed at the following times:

(i) To provide access to the separator for performing routine inspection, maintenance, or other activities needed for normal operations. Examples of such activities include those times when a worker needs to open a port to sample the liquid in the separator, or when a worker needs to open a hatch to maintain or repair equipment. Following completion of the activity, the owner or operator shall promptly secure the closure device in the closed position or reinstall the cover, as applicable, to the separator.

(ii) To remove accumulated sludge or other residues from the bottom of separator.

(2) Opening of a spring-loaded pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device which vents to the atmosphere is allowed during normal operations for the purpose of maintaining the pressure in vapor headspace underneath the fixed roof in accordance with the separator design specifications. The device shall be designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions, as determined using the procedure specified in ยง 63.1046(a) of this subpart, when the device is secured in the closed position. The settings at which the device opens shall be established such that the device remains in the closed position whenever the pressure in the vapor headspace underneath the fixed roof is within the pressure operating range determined by the owner or operator based on the cover manufacturer recommendations, applicable regulations, fire protection and prevention codes, standard engineering codes and practices, or other requirements for the safe handling of flammable, ignitable, explosive, reactive, or hazardous materials.

(3) Opening of a safety device, as defined in ยง 63.1041 of this subpart, is allowed at any time conditions require it to do so to avoid an unsafe condition.

(d) The owner or operator shall inspect the fixed roof and any closure devices in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.1047(a) of this subpart.
