
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VV - National Emission Standards for Oil-Water Separators and Organic-Water Separators
###### ยง 63.1045 Standards - Pressurized separator.

(a) This section applies to owners and operators controlling air emissions from an oil-water or organic-water separator that is pressurized and is operated as a closed-system.

(b) The pressurized separator must meet the following requirements.

(1) The separator must be designed not to vent to the atmosphere as a result of compression of the vapor headspace in the separator during operation of the separator at its design capacity.

(2) All separator openings must be equipped with closure devices designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions as determined using the procedure specified in ยง 63.1046(a) of this subpart.

(3) Whenever a regulated-material is in the separator, the separator must be operated as a closed system that does not vent to the atmosphere except under either of the following conditions as specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) At those times when opening of a safety device, as defined in ยง 63.1041 of this subpart, is required to avoid an unsafe condition.

(ii) At those times when purging of inerts from the separator is required, and the purge stream is routed to a closed-vent system and control device designed and operated in accordance with the applicable requirements of ยง 63.693.
