
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VV - National Emission Standards for Oil-Water Separators and Organic-Water Separators
###### § 63.1048 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) Each owner or operator shall prepare and maintain the following records:

(1) Documentation describing the design of each floating roof and fixed roof installed on a separator, as applicable to the separator. When a floating roof is used, the documentation shall include the dimensions of the separator bay or section in which the floating roof is installed.

(2) A record for each inspection required by § 63.1047 of this subpart that includes the following information: a separator identification number (or other unique identification description as selected by the owner or operator) and the date of inspection.

(3) The owner or operator shall record for each defect detected during inspections required by § 63.1047 of this subpart the following information: the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1047(d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.

(b) Owners and operators that use a separator equipped with a floating roof in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1043 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain records for each inspection required by § 63.1047(b)(1) describing the results of the seal gap measurements. The records shall include the date of the measurements performed, the raw data obtained for the measurements, and the calculations of the total gap surface area. In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 63.1043(b)(2) of this subpart, the records shall include a description of the repairs that were made, the date the repairs were made, and the date the separator was emptied, if necessary.

(c) Owners and operators that use a separator equipped with a fixed-roof and vented through a closed-vent system to a control device in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1044 of this subpart shall prepare and maintain the records required for the closed-vent system and control device in accordance with the requirements of § 63.693 in 40 CFR 63 subpart DD-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-Site Waste and Recovery Operations.
