
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WW - National Emission Standards for Storage Vessels (Tanks) - Control Level 2
###### ยง 63.1063 Floating roof requirements.
####### External floating roofs.

(2)External floating roofs shall be inspected as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) Within 90 days after the initial filling of the storage vessel, the primary and secondary rim seals shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(ii) The secondary seal shall be inspected at least once every year, and the primary seal shall be inspected at least every 5 years, as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(iii) Each time the storage vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or every 10 years, whichever occurs first, the EFR shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(iv) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the floating roof inspections specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) or (c)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) The inspections shall be performed no later than 30 days after the determination that the floating roof is unsafe.

(B) The storage vessel shall be removed from liquid service no later than 45 days after determining the floating roof is unsafe. If the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional days each. If the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional days each. Documentation of a decision to use an extension shall include an explanation of why it was unsafe to perform the inspection, documentation that alternative storage capacity is unavailable, and a schedule of actions that will ensure that the vessel will be emptied as soon as practical.
