
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WW - National Emission Standards for Storage Vessels (Tanks) - Control Level 2
###### ยง 63.1063 Floating roof requirements.
####### Inspection procedure requirements.

(d)Floating roof inspections shall be conducted as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section, as applicable. If a floating roof fails an inspection, the owner or operator shall comply with the repair requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.

(1) Floating roof (IFR and EFR) inspections shall be conducted by visually inspecting the floating roof deck, deck fittings, and rim seals from within the storage vessel. The inspection may be performed entirely from the top side of the floating roof, as long as there is visual access to all deck components specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(v) of this section constitutes inspection failure.

(i) Stored liquid on the floating roof.

(ii) Holes or tears in the primary or secondary seal (if one is present).

(iii) Floating roof deck, deck fittings, or rim seals that are not functioning as designed (as specified in paragraph (a) of this section).

(iv) Failure to comply with the operational requirements of paragraph (b) of this section.

(v) Gaps of more than 0.32 centimeters (inch) between any deck fitting gasket, seal, or wiper (required by paragraph (a) of this section) and any surface that it is intended to seal.

(2) Tank-top inspections of IFR's shall be conducted by visually inspecting the floating roof deck, deck fittings, and rim seal through openings in the fixed roof. Any of the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section constitutes inspection failure. Identification of holes or tears in the rim seal is required only for the seal that is visible from the top of the storage vessel.

(3) Seal gap inspections for EFR's shall determine the presence and size of gaps between the rim seals and the wall of the storage vessel by the procedures specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section. Any exceedance of the gap requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii) and (d)(3)(iii) of this section constitutes inspection failure.

(i) Rim seals shall be measured for gaps at one or more levels while the EFR is floating, as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) through (d)(3)(i)(F) of this section.

(A) The inspector shall hold a 0.32 centimeter (inch) diameter probe vertically against the inside of the storage vessel wall, just above the rim seal, and attempt to slide the probe down between the seal and the vessel wall. Each location where the probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the vessel wall constitutes a gap.

(B) The length of each gap shall be determined by inserting the probe into the gap (vertically) and sliding the probe along the vessel wall in each direction as far as it will travel freely without binding between the seal and the vessel wall. The circumferential length along which the probe can move freely is the gap length.

(C) The maximum width of each gap shall be determined by inserting probes of various diameters between the seal and the vessel wall. The smallest probe diameter should be 0.32 centimeter, and larger probes should have diameters in increments of 0.32 centimeter. The diameter of the largest probe that can be inserted freely anywhere along the length of the gap is the maximum gap width.

(D) The average width of each gap shall be determined by averaging the minimum gap width (0.32 centimeter) and the maximum gap width.

(E) The area of a gap is the product of the gap length and average gap width.

(F) The ratio of accumulated area of rim seal gaps to storage vessel diameter shall be determined by adding the area of each gap, and dividing the sum by the nominal diameter of the storage vessel. This ratio shall be determined separately for primary and secondary rim seals.

(ii) The ratio of seal gap area to vessel diameter for the primary seal shall not exceed 212 square centimeters per meter of vessel diameter (10 square inches per foot of vessel diameter), and the maximum gap width shall not exceed 3.81 centimeters (1.5 inches).

(iii) The ratio of seal gap area to vessel diameter for the secondary seal shall not exceed 21.2 square centimeters per meter (1 square inch per foot), and the maximum gap width shall not exceed 1.27 centimeters (0.5 inches), except when the secondary seal must be pulled back or removed to inspect the primary seal.
