
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WW - National Emission Standards for Storage Vessels (Tanks) - Control Level 2
###### ยง 63.1063 Floating roof requirements.
####### Deck fittings.

(2)Openings through the deck of the floating roof shall be equipped as described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(viii) of this section.

(i) Each opening except those for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents shall have its lower edge below the surface of the stored liquid.

(ii) Each opening except those for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents), rim space vents, leg sleeves, and deck drains shall be equipped with a deck cover. The deck cover shall be equipped with a gasket between the cover and the deck.

(iii) Each automatic bleeder vent (vacuum breaker vent) and rim space vent shall be equipped with a gasketed lid, pallet, flapper, or other closure device.

(iv) Each opening for a fixed roof support column may be equipped with a flexible fabric sleeve seal instead of a deck cover.

(v) Each opening for a sample well or deck drain (that empties into the stored liquid) may be equipped with a slit fabric seal or similar device that covers at least 90 percent of the opening, instead of a deck cover.

(vi) Each cover on access hatches and gauge float wells shall be designed to be bolted or fastened when closed.

(vii) Each opening for an unslotted guidepole shall be equipped with a pole wiper, and each unslotted guidepole shall be equipped with a gasketed cap on the top of the guidepole.

(viii) Each opening for a slotted guidepole shall be equipped with one of the control device configurations specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(viii)(A) and (a)(2)(viii)(B) of this section.

(A) A pole wiper and a pole float. The wiper or seal of the pole float shall be at or above the height of the pole wiper.

(B) A pole wiper and a pole sleeve.

(ix) If the floating roof does not meet the requirements listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (a)(2)(viii) of this section as of the proposal date of the referencing subpart, these requirements do not apply until the next time the vessel is completely emptied and degassed, or 10 years after the promulgation date of the referencing subpart, whichever occurs first.
