
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WW - National Emission Standards for Storage Vessels (Tanks) - Control Level 2
###### § 63.1064 Alternative means of emission limitation.

(a) An alternate control device may be substituted for a control device specified in § 63.1063 if the alternate device has an emission factor less than or equal to the emission factor for the device specified in § 63.1063. Requests for the use of alternate devices shall be made as specified in § 63.1066(b)(3). Emission factors for the devices specified in § 63.1063 are published in EPA Report No. AP-42, Compilation of Air Pollutant Emission Factors.

(b) Tests to determine emission factors for an alternate device shall accurately simulate conditions under which the device will operate, such as wind, temperature, and barometric pressure. Test methods that can be used to perform the testing required in this paragraph include, but are not limited to, the methods listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(1) American Petroleum Institute (API) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 19, Section 3, Part A, Wind Tunnel Test Method for the Measurement of Deck-Fitting Loss Factors for External Floating-Roof Tanks.

(2) API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 19, Section 3, Part B, Air Concentration Test Method for the Measurement of Rim Seal Loss Factors for Floating-Roof Tanks.

(3) API Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 19, Section 3, Part E, Weight Loss Test Method for the Measurement of Deck-Fitting Loss Factors for Internal Floating-Roof Tanks.

(c) An alternate combination of control devices may be substituted for any combination of rim seal and deck fitting control devices specified in § 63.1063 if the alternate combination emits no more than the combination specified in § 63.1063. The emissions from an alternate combination of control devices shall be determined using AP-42 or as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The emissions from a combination of control devices specified in § 63.1063 shall be determined using AP-42. Requests for the use of alternate devices shall be made as specified in § 63.1066(b)(3).
