
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Heat Exchange System Requirements
####### § 63.1085 What are the general requirements for heat exchange systems?

Unless you meet one of the requirements for exemptions in § 63.1084, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, you must monitor the cooling water for the presence of substances that indicate a leak according to § 63.1086(a) through (d).

(b) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, if you detect a leak, then you must repair it according to § 63.1087(a) and (b) unless repair is delayed according to § 63.1088(a) through (c).

(c) Keep the records specified in § 63.1089.

(d) Submit the reports specified in § 63.1090.

(e) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), the requirements specified in § 63.1086(a) through (d) no longer apply; instead, you must monitor the cooling water for the presence of total strippable hydrocarbons that indicate a leak according to § 63.1086(e). At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), you may choose to comply with the requirements in this paragraph in lieu of the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), the requirements specified in §§ 63.1087(a) and (b) and 63.1088(a) through (c), no longer apply; instead, if you detect a leak, then you must repair it according to § 63.1087(c) and (d), unless repair is delayed according to § 63.1088(d). At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), you may choose to comply with the requirements in this paragraph in lieu of the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.
