
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Monitoring Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### ยง 63.1086 How must I monitor for leaks to cooling water?
######## Surrogate parameters.

(c)You may elect to comply with the requirements of this section by monitoring using a surrogate indicator of leaks, provided that you comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. Surrogate indicators that could be used to develop an acceptable monitoring program are ion specific electrode monitoring, pH, conductivity, or other representative indicators.

(1) You shall prepare and implement a monitoring plan that documents the procedures that will be used to detect leaks of process fluids into cooling waters. The plan shall require monitoring of one or more process parameters or other conditions that indicate a leak. Monitoring that is already being conducted for other purposes may be used to satisfy the requirements of this section. The plan shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) A description of the parameter or condition to be monitored and an explanation of how the selected parameter or condition will reliably indicate the presence of a leak.

(ii) The parameter level(s) or condition(s) that shall constitute a leak. This shall be documented by data or calculations showing that the selected levels or conditions will reliably identify leaks. The monitoring must be sufficiently sensitive to determine the range of parameter levels or conditions when the system is not leaking. When the selected parameter level or condition is outside that range, you have detected a leak.

(iii) Monitoring periods. For existing sources, monitor cooling water as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section. Monitor heat exchange systems at new sources according to the specifications in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(B) of this section.
