
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Monitoring Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### ยง 63.1086 How must I monitor for leaks to cooling water?
######## 1,2

(A) Monitor monthly for 6 months, both initially and following completion of a leak repair. Then monitor as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A)() or (c)(1)(iii)(A)() of this section, as appropriate.

(1) If no leaks are detected, monitor quarterly thereafter until a leak is detected.

(2) If a leak is detected, monitor monthly until the leak has been repaired. Upon completion of repair, monitor according to the specifications in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section.

(B) Monitor the cooling water weekly for heat exchange systems at new sources.

(iv) The records that will be maintained to document compliance with the requirements of this section.

(2) If a leak is identified by audio, visual, or olfactory inspection, a method listed in 40 CFR part 136, or any other means other than those described in the monitoring plan, and the method(s) specified in the plan could not detect the leak, you shall revise the plan and document the basis for the changes. You shall complete the revisions to the plan no later than 180 days after discovery of the leak.

(3) You shall maintain, at all times, the monitoring plan that is currently in use. The current plan shall be maintained on-site, or shall be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provide access within 2 hours after a request. If the monitoring plan is changed, you must retain the most recent superseded plan for at least 5 years from the date of its creation. The superseded plan shall be retained on-site or accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provide access within 2 hours after a request.
