
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Monitoring Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### ยง 63.1086 How must I monitor for leaks to cooling water?
######## Heat exchange system.

(a)Monitor cooling water in each heat exchange system for the HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart (either total or speciated) or other representative substances (e.g., total organic carbon or volatile organic compounds (VOC)) that indicate the presence of a leak according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You define the equipment that comprises each heat exchange system. For the purposes of implementing paragraph (a) of this section, a heat exchange system may consist of an entire heat exchange system or any combinations of heat exchangers such that, based on the rate of cooling water at the entrance and exit to each heat exchange system and the sensitivity of the test method being used, a leak of 3.06 kg/hr or greater of the HAP in Table 1 to this subpart would be detected. For example, if the test you decide to use has a sensitivity of 1 ppmv for total HAP, you must define the heat exchange system so that the cooling water flow rate is 51,031 liters per minute or less so that a leak of 3.06 kg/hr can be detected.

(2) Monitoring periods. For existing sources, monitor cooling water as specified in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. Monitor heat exchange systems at new sources according to the specifications in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Monitor monthly for 6 months, both initially and following completion of a leak repair. Then monitor as provided in either paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) or (a)(2)(i)(B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) If no leaks are detected by monitoring monthly for a 6-month period, monitor quarterly thereafter until a leak is detected.

(B) If a leak is detected, monitor monthly until the leak has been repaired. Upon completion of repair, monitor according to the specifications in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) Monitor weekly for 6 months, both initially and following completion of a leak repair. Then monitor as provided in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) If no leaks are detected by monitoring weekly for a 6-month period, monitor monthly thereafter until a leak is detected.

(B) If a leak is detected, monitor weekly until the leak has been repaired. Upon completion of the repair, monitor according to the specifications in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(3) Determine the concentration of the monitored substance in the heat exchange system cooling water using any method listed in 40 CFR part 136. Use the same method for both entrance and exit samples. You may validate 40 CFR part 136 methods for the HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart according to the procedures in appendix D to this part. Alternative methods may be used upon approval by the Administrator.

(4) Take a minimum of three sets of samples at each entrance and exit.

(5) Calculate the average entrance and exit concentrations, correcting for the addition of make-up water and evaporative losses, if applicable. Using a one-sided statistical procedure at the 0.05 level of significance, if the exit mean concentration is at least 10 percent greater than the entrance mean of the HAP (total or speciated) in Table 1 to this subpart or other representative substance, and the leak is at least 3.06 kg/hr, you have detected a leak.
