
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Monitoring Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### ยง 63.1086 How must I monitor for leaks to cooling water?
######## Individual heat exchangers.

(b)Monitor the cooling water at the entrance and exit of each heat exchanger for the HAP in Table 1 to this subpart (either total or speciated) or other representative substances (e.g., total organic carbon or VOC) that indicate the presence of a leak in a heat exchanger according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Monitoring periods. For existing sources, monitor cooling water as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section. Monitor each heat exchanger at new sources according to the specifications in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Monitor monthly for 6 months, both initially and following completion of a leak repair. Then monitor as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A) or (b)(1)(i)(B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) If no leaks are detected by monitoring monthly for a 6-month period, monitor quarterly thereafter until a leak is detected.

(B) If a leak is detected, monitor monthly until the leak has been repaired. Upon completion of repair, monitor according to the specifications in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(ii) Monitor weekly for 6 months, both initially and following completion of a leak repair. Then monitor as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) If no leaks are detected by monitoring weekly for a 6-month period, monitor monthly thereafter until a leak is detected.

(B) If a leak is detected, monitor weekly until the leak has been repaired. Upon completion of the repair, monitor according to the specifications in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(2) Determine the concentration of the monitored substance in the cooling water using any method listed in 40 CFR part 136, as long as the method is sensitive to concentrations as low as 10 ppmv. Use the same method for both entrance and exit samples. Validation of 40 CFR part 136 methods for the HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart may be determined according to the provisions of appendix D to this part. Alternative methods may be used upon approval by the Administrator.

(3) Take a minimum of three sets of samples at each heat exchanger entrance and exit.

(4) Calculate the average entrance and exit concentrations, correcting for the addition of make-up water and evaporative losses, if applicable. Using a one-sided statistical procedure at the 0.05 level of significance, if the exit mean concentration is at least 1 ppmw or 10 percent greater than the entrance mean, whichever is greater, you have detected a leak.
