
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### § 63.1089 What records must I keep?

You must keep the records in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, according to the requirements of § 63.1109(c).

(a) Monitoring data required by § 63.1086 that indicate a leak, the date the leak was detected, or, if applicable, the basis for determining there is no leak.

(b) The dates of efforts to repair leaks.

(c) The method or procedures used to confirm repair of a leak and the date the repair was confirmed.

(d) At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), you must keep documentation of delay of repair as specified in § 63.1088(a) through (c). Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), the requirement to keep documentation of delay of repair as specified in § 63.1088(a) through (c) no longer applies; instead, you must keep documentation of delay of repair as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The reason(s) for delaying repair.

(2) A schedule for completing the repair as soon as practical.

(3) The date and concentration or mass emissions rate of the leak as first identified and the results of all subsequent monitoring events during the delay of repair.

(4) An estimate of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions from the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for each required delay of repair monitoring interval following the applicable procedures in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) If you comply with the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration leak action level, as specified in § 63.1086(e)(4), you must calculate the mass emissions rate by complying with the requirements of § 63.1086(e)(3)(ii) or by determining the mass flow rate of the cooling water at the monitoring location where the leak was detected. If the monitoring location is an individual cooling tower riser, determine the total cooling water mass flow rate to the cooling tower. Cooling water mass flow rates may be determined using direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations, or other engineering methods. If you determine the mass flow rate of the cooling water, calculate the mass emissions rate by converting the stripping gas leak concentration (in ppmv as methane) to an equivalent liquid concentration, in parts per million by weight (ppmw), using equation 7-1 from "Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources" (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) and multiply the equivalent liquid concentration by the mass flow rate of the cooling water.

(ii) For delay of repair monitoring intervals prior to repair of the leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the monitoring interval by multiplying the mass emissions rate, determined in § 63.1086(e)(3)(ii) or paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section, by the duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval. The duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight on the day of the previous monitoring event or at midnight on the day the repair would have been completed if the repair had not been delayed, whichever is later, and ending at midnight of the day the of the current monitoring event.

(iii) For delay of repair monitoring intervals ending with a repaired leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the final delay of repair monitoring interval by multiplying the duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval by the mass emissions rate determined for the last monitoring event prior to the re-monitoring event used to verify the leak was repaired. The duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight of the day of the last monitoring event prior to re-monitoring to verify the leak was repaired and ending at the time of the re-monitoring event that verified that the leak was repaired.

(e) At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), if you validate a 40 CFR part 136 method for the HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart according to the procedures in appendix D to this part, then you must keep a record of the test data and calculations used in the validation. On the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(a), this requirement no longer applies.
