
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Recordkeeping and Reporting Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### § 63.1090 What reports must I submit?

If you delay repair for your heat exchange system, you must report the delay of repair in the semiannual report required by § 63.1110(e). If the leak remains unrepaired, you must continue to report the delay of repair in semiannual reports until you repair the leak. Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, you must include the information in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section in the semiannual report.

(a) The fact that a leak was detected, and the date that the leak was detected.

(b) Whether or not the leak has been repaired.

(c) The reasons for delay of repair. If you delayed the repair as provided in § 63.1088(b), documentation of emissions estimates.

(d) If a leak remains unrepaired, the expected date of repair.

(e) If a leak is repaired, the date the leak was successfully repaired.

(f) For heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1085(e) and (f), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section, in lieu of the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section.

(1) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.1085(e) and (f) during the reporting period.

(2) The number of heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.1085(e) and (f) at the plant site found to be leaking during the reporting period.
