
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Monitoring Requirements for Heat Exchange Systems
####### § 63.1086 How must I monitor for leaks to cooling water?
######## Monitoring frequency and leak action level.

(4)For each heat exchange system, you must comply with the applicable monitoring frequency and leak action level, as defined in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. The monitoring frequencies specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section also apply to the inlet water feed line for a once-through heat exchange system, if you elect to monitor the inlet water feed as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) For each heat exchange system that is part of an ethylene production affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 6, 2000, you must monitor quarterly using a leak action level defined as a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 6.2 ppmv or, for heat exchange systems with a recirculation rate of 10,000 gallons per minute or less, you may monitor quarterly using a leak action level defined as a total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate from the heat exchange system (as methane) of 0.18 kg/hr. If a leak is detected as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, then you must monitor monthly until the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d). Once the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d), quarterly monitoring for the heat exchange system may resume.

(ii) For each heat exchange system that is part of an ethylene production affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after December 6, 2000 and on or before October 9, 2019, you must monitor at the applicable frequency specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section using a leak action level defined as a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 6.2 ppmv or, for heat exchange systems with a recirculation rate of 10,000 gallons per minute or less, you may monitor at the applicable frequency specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section using a leak action level defined as a total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate from the heat exchange system (as methane) of 0.18 kg/hr.

(A) If you have completed the initial weekly monitoring for 6-months of the heat exchange system as specified in § 63.1086(a)(2)(ii) or (b)(1)(ii) then you must monitor monthly. If a leak is detected as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, then you must monitor weekly until the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d). Once the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d), monthly monitoring for the heat exchange system may resume.

(B) If you have not completed the initial weekly monitoring for 6-months of the heat exchange system as specified in § 63.1086(a)(2)(ii) or (b)(1)(ii), or if you elect to comply with paragraph (e) of this section rather than paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section upon startup, then you must initially monitor weekly for 6-months beginning upon startup and monitor monthly thereafter. If a leak is detected as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, then you must monitor weekly until the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d). Once the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d), monthly monitoring for the heat exchange system may resume.

(iii) For each heat exchange system that is part of an ethylene production affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after October 9, 2019, you must initially monitor weekly for 6-months beginning upon startup and monitor monthly thereafter using a leak action level defined as a total strippable hydrocarbon concentration (as methane) in the stripping gas of 6.2 ppmv or, for heat exchange systems with a recirculation rate of 10,000 gallons per minute or less, you may use a leak action level defined as a total hydrocarbon mass emissions rate from the heat exchange system (as methane) of 0.18 kg/hr if the heat exchange system has a recirculation rate of 10,000 gallons per minute or less. If a leak is detected as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section, then you must monitor weekly until the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d). Once the leak has been repaired according to the requirements in § 63.1087(c) or (d), monthly monitoring for the heat exchange system may resume.
