
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Waste Requirements
####### § 63.1095 What specific requirements must I comply with?
######## Waste streams that contain benzene.

(b)For waste streams that contain benzene, you must comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, except as specified in Table 2 to this subpart and paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You must manage and treat waste streams that contain benzene as specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If the total annual benzene quantity from waste at your facility is less than 10 Mg/yr, as determined according to 40 CFR 61.342(a), manage and treat spent caustic waste streams and dilution steam blowdown waste streams according to 40 CFR 61.342(c)(1) through (c)(3)(i). Before July 6, 2023, the requirements of this paragraph (b)(1) shall apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, if the startup, shutdown, or malfunction precludes the ability of the affected source to comply with the requirements of this section and the owner or operator follows the provisions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, as specified in § 63.1111. Beginning on July 6, 2023, the requirements of this paragraph (b)(1) shall apply at all times.

(2) If the total annual benzene quantity from waste at your facility is greater than or equal to 10 Mg/yr, as determined according to 40 CFR 61.342(a), you must manage and treat waste streams according to any of the options in 40 CFR 61.342(c)(1) through (e) or transfer waste off-site. If you elect to transfer waste off-site, then you must comply with the requirements of § 63.1096.

(3) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(b), if you use a steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point flare to comply with 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, then you must comply with the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(4) in lieu of 40 CFR 61.349(a)(2)(iii) and (d), 40 CFR 61.354(c)(3), 40 CFR 61.356(f)(2)(i)(D) and (j)(7), and 40 CFR 61.357(d)(7)(iv)(F).
