
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XX - National Emission Standards for Ethylene Manufacturing Process Units: Heat Exchange Systems and Waste Operations
###### Waste Requirements
####### § 63.1095 What specific requirements must I comply with?
######## Continuous butadiene waste streams.

(a)Manage and treat continuous butadiene waste streams that contain greater than or equal to 10 ppmw 1,3-butadiene and have a flow rate greater than or equal to 0.02 liters per minute, according to either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section. If the total annual benzene quantity from waste at your facility is less than 10 Mg/yr, as determined according to 40 CFR 61.342(a), the requirements of paragraph (a)(3) of this section apply also.

(1) Route the continuous butadiene stream to a treatment process or wastewater treatment system used to treat benzene waste streams that complies with the standards specified in 40 CFR 61.348. Comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF; with the changes in Table 2 to this subpart, and as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Determine the butadiene concentration of the waste stream according to 40 CFR 61.355(c)(1) through (3), except substitute "1,3-butadiene" for each occurrence of "benzene." You may validate 40 CFR part 136 methods for 1,3-butadiene according to the procedures in appendix D to this part. You do not need to determine the butadiene concentration of a waste stream if you designate that the stream must be controlled.

(ii) Comply with 40 CFR 61.342(c)(1)(ii) and (iii) for each waste management unit that receives or manages the waste stream prior to and during treatment or recycling of the waste stream.

(iii) Comply with the recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR 61.356(b), (b)(1) and (b)(2), except substitute "1,3-butadiene" for each occurrence of "benzene" and "continuous butadiene waste stream" for each occurrence of "waste stream."

(iv) Comply with the reporting requirements in 40 CFR 61.357(a), (a)(2), (a)(3), (a)(3)(iii) through (v), and (d)(1) and (2), except substitute "1,3-butadiene" for each occurrence of "benzene" and "continuous butadiene waste stream" for each occurrence of "waste stream."

(v) Include only the information in 40 CFR 61.357(a)(2) and (a)(3)(iii) through (v) in the report required in 40 CFR 61.357(a) and (d)(2).

(vi) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1081(b), if you use a steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point flare to comply with 40 CFR part 61, subpart FF, then you must comply with the requirements § 63.1103(e)(4) in lieu of 40 CFR 61.349(a)(2)(iii) and (d), 40 CFR 61.354(c)(3), 40 CFR 61.356(f)(2)(i)(D) and (j)(7), and 40 CFR 61.357(d)(7)(iv)(F).

(2) Comply with the process wastewater requirements of subpart G of this part. Submit the information required in § 63.146(b) in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1110(d). Submit the information required in § 63.146(c) through (e) in either the Periodic Reports required in § 63.152 or the Periodic Reports required in § 63.1110(e).

(3) Before July 6, 2023, if the total annual benzene quantity from waste at your facility is less than 10 Mg/yr, as determined according to 40 CFR 61.342(a), comply with the requirements of this section at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, if the startup, shutdown, or malfunction precludes the ability of the affected source to comply with the requirements of this section and the owner or operator follows the provisions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, as specified in § 63.1111. Beginning on July 6, 2023, if the total annual benzene quantity from waste at your facility is less than 10 Mg/yr, as determined according to 40 CFR 61.342(a), you must comply with the requirements of this section at all times.
