
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1100 Applicability.
####### Storage vessel ownership determination.

(e)To determine the process unit to which a storage vessel shall belong, the owner or operator shall sequentially follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section, stopping as soon as the determination is made.

(1) If a storage vessel is already subject to another subpart of this part on the date of promulgation for an affected source under the generic MACT, that storage vessel shall belong to the process unit subject to the other subpart.

(2) If a storage vessel is dedicated to a single process unit, the storage vessel shall belong to that process unit.

(3) If a storage vessel is shared among process units, then the storage vessel shall belong to that process unit located on the same plant site as the storage vessel that has the greatest input into or output from the storage vessel (i.e., the process unit has the predominant use of the storage vessel.)

(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units and if only one of those process units is subject to this subpart, the storage vessel shall belong to that process unit.

(5) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units and if more than one of the process units are subject to standards under this subpart that have different primary products, then the owner or operator shall assign the storage vessel to any one of the process units sharing the storage vessel.

(6) If the predominant use of a storage vessel varies from year to year, then predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding the date of promulgation of standards for an affected source under this subpart or based on the expected utilization for the 5 years following the promulgation date of standards for an affected source under this subpart for existing affected sources, whichever is more representative of the expected operations for that storage vessel, and based on the expected utilization for the 5 years after initial startup for new affected sources. The determination of predominant use shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status Report required by ยง 63.1110(a)(4). If the predominant use changes, the redetermination of predominant use shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(7) If the storage vessel begins receiving material from (or sending material to) another process unit; ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a process unit; or if the applicability of this subpart to a storage vessel has been determined according to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section and there is a significant change in the use of the storage vessel that could reasonably change the predominant use, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the storage vessel.

(8) Where a storage vessel is located at a major source that includes one or more process units that place material into, or receive materials from, the storage vessel, but the storage vessel is located in a tank farm, the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (e)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The storage vessel may only be assigned to a process unit that utilizes the storage vessel and does not have an intervening storage vessel for that product (or raw material, as appropriate). With respect to any process unit, an intervening storage vessel means a storage vessel connected by hard-piping to the process unit and to the storage vessel in the tank farm so that product or raw material entering or leaving the process unit flows into (or from) the intervening storage vessel and does not flow directly into (or from) the storage vessel in the tank farm.

(ii) If there is only one process unit at a major source that meets the criteria of paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit.

(iii) If there are two or more process units at the major source that meet the criteria of paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to one of those process units according to the provisions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section. The predominant use shall be determined among only those process units that meet the criteria of paragraph (e)(8)(i) of this section.
