
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1100 Applicability.
####### Recovery operation equipment ownership determination.

(f)To determine the process unit to which recovery equipment shall belong, the owner or operator shall sequentially follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section, stopping as soon as the determination is made.

(1) If recovery operation equipment is already subject to another subpart of this part on the date standards are promulgated for an affected source, that recovery operation equipment shall belong to the process unit subject to the other subpart.

(2) If recovery operation equipment is used exclusively by a single process unit, the recovery operation shall belong to that process unit.

(3) If recovery operation equipment is shared among process units, then the recovery operation equipment shall belong to that process unit that has the greatest input into or output from the recovery operation equipment (i.e., that process unit has the predominant use of the recovery operation equipment).

(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for recovery operation equipment that is shared among process units and if one of those process units is a process unit subject to this subpart, the recovery operation equipment shall belong to the process unit subject to this subpart.

(5) If predominant use cannot be determined for recovery operation equipment that is shared among process units and if more than one of the process units are process units that have different primary products and that are subject to this subpart, then the owner or operator shall assign the recovery operation equipment to any one of those process units.

(6) If the predominant use of recovery operation equipment varies from year to year, then the predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding the promulgation date of standards for an affected source under this subpart or based on the expected utilization for the 5 years following the promulgation date for standards for an affected source under this subpart for existing affected sources, whichever is the more representative of the expected operations for the recovery operations equipment, and based on the expected utilization for the first 5 years after initial startup for new affected sources. This determination shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status Report required by ยง 63.1110(a)(4). If the predominant use changes, the redetermination of predominant use shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(7) If there is an unexpected change in the utilization of recovery operation equipment that could reasonably change the predominant use, the owner or operator shall redetermine to which process unit the recovery operation belongs by reperforming the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(2) through (6) of this section.
