
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1100 Applicability.
####### Primary product determination and applicability.

(d)The primary product of a process unit shall be determined according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. Paragraphs (d)(3), (4), and (5) of this section discuss compliance for those process units operated as flexible operation units.

(1) If a process unit only manufactures one product, then that product shall represent the primary product of the process unit.

(2) If a process unit is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the primary product shall be determined as specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section based on the anticipated operations for the 5 years following the promulgation date for existing affected sources and for the first 5 years after initial startup for new affected sources.

(i) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture one product for the greatest percentage of operating time over the five-year period, then that product shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(ii) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture multiple products equally based on operating time, then the product with the greatest production on a mass basis over the five-year period shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(3) Once the primary product of a process unit has been determined to be a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart, the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the standards for the primary product production process unit.

(4) The determination of the primary product for a process unit, including the assessment of applicability of this subpart to process units that are designed and operated as flexible operation units, shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.1110(a)(4) when the primary product is determined to be a product produced by a source category subject to requirements under this subpart. The Notification of Compliance Status shall include the information specified in either paragraph (d)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section. If the primary product is determined to be something other than a product produced by a source category subject to requirements under this subpart, the owner or operator shall retain information, data, and analyses used to document the basis for the determination that the primary product is not produced by a source category subject to requirements under this subpart.

(i) If the process unit manufactures only one product subject to requirements under this subpart, the identity of that product.

(ii) If the process unit is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) The identity of the primary product.

(B) Information concerning operating time and/or production mass for each product that was used to make the determination of the primary product under paragraph (d)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(5) When a flexible operation unit that is subject to this subpart is producing a product other than a product subject to this subpart, or is producing a product subject to this subpart that is not the primary product, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (d)(5) (i) or (ii) of this section for each emission point.

(i) The owner or operator shall control emissions during the production of all products in accordance with the requirements for the production of the primary product. As appropriate, the owner or operator shall demonstrate that the parameter monitoring level established for the primary product is also appropriate for those periods when products other than the primary product are being produced. Documentation of this demonstration shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.1110(a)(4).

(ii) The owner or operator shall determine, for the production of each product, whether control is required in accordance with the applicable criteria for the primary product in § 63.1103. If control is required, the owner or operator shall establish separate parameter monitoring levels, as appropriate, for the production of each product. The parameter monitoring levels developed shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status report required by § 63.1110(a)(4).
