
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart Q - Credit Assistance for Water Infrastructure Projects
###### ยง 35.10010 Limitations on assistance.

(a) The total amount of credit assistance offered to any project under this part shall not exceed 49% of the anticipated eligible project costs, as measured on an aggregate cash (year-of-expenditure) basis, or, if the secured loan does not receive an investment-grade rating, the total amount of credit assistance shall not exceed the amount of the senior project obligations of the project.

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator may offer credit assistance in excess of 49% of the anticipated eligible project costs as long as such excess assistance combined for all projects does not require greater than 25% of the subsidy amount made available for the fiscal year.

(1) Credit assistance may not exceed 80% of the total project costs due to a statutory restriction on the maximum extent of federal participation in a project, except in the case of certain rural water projects authorized to be carried out by the Secretary of the Interior that includes among its beneficiaries a federally recognized Indian tribe and for which the authorized Federal share of the total project costs is greater than 80%.

(2) Use of the authority to offer credit assistance in excess of 49% of the anticipated eligible project costs shall be considered only under extraordinarily exceptional circumstances.

(3) In the event this authority is used, all other criteria and requirements described in this part must be met and adhered to.

(c) Costs incurred, and the value of any integral in-kind contributions made, before receipt of credit assistance may be considered in calculating eligible project costs only upon approval of the Administrator. Such costs and integral in-kind contributions must be directly related to the development or execution of the project and must be eligible project costs as defined in ยง 35.10005. In addition, such costs, excluding the value of any integral in-kind contributions, are payable from the proceeds of the WIFIA credit instrument and shall be considered incurred costs for purposes of paragraph (f) of this section. Capitalized interest on the WIFIA credit instrument is not eligible for calculating eligible project costs.

(d) No costs financed internally or with interim funding may be refinanced under this part later than a year following substantial completion of the project.
