
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart Q - Credit Assistance for Water Infrastructure Projects
###### ยง 35.10010 Limitations on assistance.
####### et seq.

(e) The Administrator shall not obligate funds for a project that has not received an environmental Categorical Exclusion, Finding of No Significant Impact, or Record of Decision under the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), 42 U.S.C. 4321

(f) The Administrator shall fund a secured loan based on the project's financing needs. The credit agreement shall include the anticipated schedule for such loan disbursements. Actual disbursements will be based on incurred costs, and in accordance with the approved construction plan, as evidenced by paid invoices.

(g) The interest rate on a secured loan will be equal to or greater than the yield on U.S. Treasury securities of comparable maturity on the date of execution of the credit agreement as identified through use of the daily rate tables published by the Bureau of the Fiscal Service for the State and Local Government Series (SLGS) investments. The yield on comparable Treasury securities will be estimated by adding one basis point to the SLGS daily rate with a maturity that is closest to the weighted average loan life of the WIFIA credit instrument, measured from first disbursement.

(h) The final maturity date of a secured loan will be the earlier of the date that is 35 years after the date of substantial completion of the project, as determined by the Administrator and identified in the assistance agreement, and if the useful life of the project, as determined by the Administrator, is less than 35 years, the useful life the project; however, the final maturity date of a secured loan to a State infrastructure financing authority will be not later than 35 years after the date on which amounts are first disbursed. In determining the useful life of the project, for the purposes of establishing the final maturity date of the WIFIA credit instrument, the Administrator will consider the useful economic life of the asset(s) being financed.

(i) A secured loan will not be subordinated to the claims of any holder of project obligations in the event of bankruptcy, insolvency, or liquidation of the obligor of the project.

(j) EPA will establish a repayment schedule for a secured loan based on the projected cash flow from project revenues and other repayment sources. Scheduled loan repayments of principal or interest on a secured loan will commence not later than 5 years after the date of substantial completion of the project as determined by the Administrator; however, scheduled loan repayments of principal or interest on a secured loan to a State infrastructure financing authority will commence not later than 5 years after the date on which amounts are first disbursed.
