
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Acetal resins production applicability, definitions, and requirements,Applicability,Affected source.

(a)-(1)-(i)For the acetal resins production source category (as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section), the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, that are associated with an acetal resins production process unit located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Clean Air Act (Act).

(A) All storage vessels that store liquids containing organic HAP. For purposes of regulation, surge control vessels and bottoms receivers that are located as part of the process train prior to the polymer reactor are to be regulated under the front-end process vent provisions.

(B) All process vents from continuous unit operations (front end process vents and back end process vents).

(C) All wastewater streams associated with the acetal resins production process unit as defined in (a)(2) of this section.

(D) Equipment (as defined in ยง 63.1101 of this subpart) that contains or contacts organic HAP.
