
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1102 Compliance schedule.
####### Compliance dates for existing sources.

(2)(i) The owner or operator of an existing affected source shall comply with the requirements of this subpart within 3 years after the effective date of standards for the affected source.

(ii) The owner or operator of an area source that increases its emissions of (or its potential to emit) HAP such that the source becomes a major source shall be subject to the relevant standards for existing sources under this subpart. Such sources shall comply with the relevant standards within 3 years of becoming a major source.

(b) All acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources and polycarbonate production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 9, 2014, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1107(e)(3) upon initial startup or October 9, 2017, whichever is later, and the equipment leaks requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU upon initial startup or October 8, 2015, whichever is later. New acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources and polycarbonate production affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after January 9, 2014, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1107(e)(3) upon initial startup or by October 8, 2014, whichever is later.

(c) All ethylene production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before October 9, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section upon initial startup or July 6, 2023, whichever is later. All ethylene production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after October 9, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (13) of this section upon initial startup, or July 6, 2020, whichever is later.

(1) Overlap requirements specified in § 63.1100(g)(4)(iii) and (7), if applicable.

(2) The storage vessel requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) and (c)(1)(ii) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), and the degassing requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(10).

(3) The ethylene process vent requirements specified in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e).

(4) The transfer rack requirements specified in § 63.1105(a)(5).

(5) The equipment requirements specified in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e) and § 63.1107(h).

(6) The bypass line requirements specified in paragraph (i) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), and § 63.1103(e)(6).

(7) The decoking requirements for ethylene cracking furnaces specified in paragraph (j) of Table 7 to § 63.1103(e), and § 63.1103(e)(7) and (8).

(8) The flare requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(4).

(9) The maintenance vent requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(5).

(10) The requirements specified in § 63.1103(e)(9).

(11) The requirements in § 63.1108(a)(4)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(4)(ii)(B).

(12) The recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1109(e) through (i).

(13) The reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(a)(10), (d)(1)(iv) and (v), and (e)(4) through (8).
