
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1102 Compliance schedule.
####### Cyanide chemicals manufacturing.

(d)(1) If applicable, all cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section upon initial startup or November 20, 2022, whichever is later. If applicable, all cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.

(i) Requirements specified in Table 9 to § 63.1103(g), table entry (f)(1)(ii), for new cyanide chemicals manufacturing process units that generate process wastewater.

(ii) Requirements specified in Table 9 to § 63.1103(g), table entry (g), for existing cyanide chemicals manufacturing process units that generate process wastewater.

(2) All cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup or May 18, 2022, whichever is later. All cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 15, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.

(i) The exceptions specified in § 63.1103(g)(6) related to 40 part 63, subparts SS, TT, and UU startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.

(ii) The compliance requirements specified in § 63.1108(a)(4)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(4)(ii)(B).

(iii) The electronic reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(a)(10).
