
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1102 Compliance schedule.
####### Carbon black production.

(e)(1) If applicable, all carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup or November 20, 2022, whichever is later. If applicable, all carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.

(i) The process vent applicability determination requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv).

(ii) The performance test frequency requirements specified in § 63.1108(b)(4)(ii).

(iii) The boiler and process heater tune up requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iii).

(2) All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section upon initial startup or May 18, 2022, whichever is later. All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section upon initial startup, or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.

(i) The exceptions specified in § 63.1103(f)(4) related to 40 part 63, subpart SS, startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.

(ii) The exception specified in § 63.1103(f)(5) related to the requirement that a closed vent system route the collected vapors to a control device when demonstrating compliance.

(iii) The compliance requirements specified in § 63.1108(a)(4)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2), and (b)(4)(ii)(B).

(iv) The electronic reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(a)(10).

(3) All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements specified in line entry (b) in Table 8 to § 63.1103(f) on or before November 19, 2024. All carbon black production affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, must be in compliance with the requirements specified in line entries (b) and (c) in Table 8 to § 63.1103(f) upon initial startup or November 19, 2021, whichever is later.
