
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Acrylic and modacrylic fiber production applicability, definitions, and requirements,Applicability,Affected source.

(b)-(1)-(i)For the acrylic fibers and modacrylic fibers production (as defined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, that are associated with a suspension or solution polymerization process unit that produces acrylic and modacrylic fiber located at a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.

(A) All storage vessels that store liquid containing acrylonitrile or organic HAP.

(B) All process vents from continuous unit operations.

(C) All wastewater streams associated with the acrylic and modacrylic fibers production process unit as defined in (b)(2) of this section.

(D) Equipment (as defined in ยง 63.1101 of this subpart) that contains or contacts acrylonitrile or organic HAP.

(E) All acrylic and modacrylic fiber spinning lines using a spinning solution or suspension having organic acrylonitrile or organic HAP. For the purposes of implementing this paragraph, a spinning line includes the spinning solution filters, spin bath, and the equipment used downstream of the spin bath to wash, dry, or draw the spun fiber.
