
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Requirements.

(3)An owner or operator of an affected source must comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Table 2 of this section specifies the acrylic and modacrylic fiber production source category control requirement applicability for both existing and new sources. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in §§ 63.1104 through 63.1107. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform tests, or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113. The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from each affected source emission point by meeting the applicable requirements specified in table 2 of this section.

(ii) The owner or operator must control organic HAP emissions from the acrylic and modacrylic fibers production facility by meeting the applicable requirements specified in table 3 of this section. The owner or operator must determine the facility organic HAP emission rate using the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in §§ 63.1104 through 63.1107. An owner or operator of an affected source does not have to perform tests, TRE calculations or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.
