
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Polycarbonate production applicability, definitions, and requirements,Applicability,Affected source.

(d)-(1)-(i)For the polycarbonate production (as defined in paragraph (d)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source shall comprise all emission points, in combination, listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section, that are part of a polycarbonate production process unit located at a major source as defined in section 112(a) of the Act. For the purposes of this rule, a polycarbonate production process unit is a unit that produces polycarbonate by interfacial polymerization from bisphenols and phosgene. Phosgene production units that are associated with polycarbonate production process units are considered to be part of the polycarbonate production process. A phosgene production unit consists of the reactor in which phosgene is formed and all equipment (listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i)(A) through (D) of this section) downstream of the reactor that provides phosgene for the production of polycarbonate. Therefore, for the purposes of this rule, such a phosgene production unit is considered to be a polycarbonate production process unit.

(A) All storage vessels that store liquids containing organic HAP.

(B) All process vents from continuous and batch unit operations.

(C) All wastewater streams.

(D) Equipment (as defined in ยง 63.1101 of this subpart) that contains or contacts organic HAP.
