
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Ethylene production applicability, definitions, and requirements,Applicability,Affected source.

(e)-(1)-(i)For the ethylene production (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) source category, the affected source comprises all emission points listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i)(A) through (G) of this section that are associated with an ethylene production unit that is located at a major source, as defined in section 112(a) of the Act.

(A) All storage vessels (as defined in ยง 63.1101) that store liquids containing organic HAP.

(B) All ethylene process vents (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) from continuous unit operations.

(C) All transfer racks (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) that load HAP-containing material.

(D) Equipment (as defined in ยง 63.1101) that contains or contacts organic HAP.

(E) All waste streams (as defined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section) associated with an ethylene production unit.

(F) All heat exchange systems (as defined in ยง 63.1082(b)) associated with an ethylene production unit.

(G) All ethylene cracking furnaces and associated decoking operations.
