
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Exceptions.

(ii)The emission points listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) (A) through (L) of this section are in the ethylene production source category but are not subject to the requirements of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(A) Equipment that is located within an ethylene production unit that is subject to this subpart but does not contain organic HAP.

(B) Stormwater from segregated sewers.

(C) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems in segregated sewers.

(D) Spills.

(E) Water from safety showers.

(F) Water from testing of fire-fighting and deluge systems.

(G) Vessels storing organic liquids that contain organic HAP as impurities.

(H) Transfer racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that only transfer liquids containing organic HAP as impurities.

(I) Transfer racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that vapor balance during all transfer operations.

(J) Air emissions from all ethylene cracking furnaces.

(K) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere.

(L) Vessels permanently attached to motor vehicles such as trucks, railcars, barges, or ships.
