
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Flares.

(4)Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), if a steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point flare is used as a control device for an emission point subject to the requirements in Table 7 to this section, then the owner or operator must meet the applicable requirements for flares as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 of subpart CC, including the provisions in Tables 12 and 13 to subpart CC of this part, except as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (xiv) of this section. This requirement also applies to any flare using fuel gas from a fuel gas system, of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas is derived from an ethylene production unit, being used to control an emission point subject to the requirements in Table 7 of this section. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, the following terms are defined in § 63.641 of subpart CC: Assist air, assist steam, center steam, combustion zone, combustion zone gas, flare, flare purge gas, flare supplemental gas, flare sweep gas, flare vent gas, lower steam, net heating value, perimeter assist air, pilot gas, premix assist air, total steam, and upper steam.

(i) The owner or operator may elect to comply with the alternative means of emissions limitation requirements specified in of § 63.670(r) of subpart CC in lieu of the requirements in § 63.670(d) through (f) of subpart CC, as applicable. However, instead of complying with § 63.670(r)(3) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must submit the alternative means of emissions limitation request following the requirements in § 63.1113.

(ii) Instead of complying with § 63.670(o)(2)(i) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must develop and implement the flare management plan no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c).
