
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### e.g.,

(E) Unless the owner or operator of a pressure-assisted multi-point flare chooses to conduct a cross-light performance demonstration as specified in this paragraph, the owner or operator must ensure that if a stage of burners on the flare uses cross-lighting, that the distance between any two burners in series on that stage is no more than 6 feet when measured from the center of one burner to the next burner. A distance greater than 6 feet between any two burners in series may be used provided the owner or operator conducts a performance demonstration that confirms the pressure-assisted multi-point flare will cross-light a minimum of three burners and the spacing between the burners and location of the pilot flame must be representative of the projected installation. The compliance demonstration must be approved by the permitting authority and a copy of this approval must be maintained onsite. The compliance demonstration report must include: A protocol describing the test methodology used, associated test method QA/QC parameters, the waste gas composition and NHVcz of the gas tested, the velocity of the waste gas tested, the pressure-assisted multi-point flare burner tip pressure, the time, length, and duration of the test, records of whether a successful cross-light was observed over all of the burners and the length of time it took for the burners to cross-light, records of maintaining a stable flame after a successful cross-light and the duration for which this was observed, records of any smoking events during the cross-light, waste gas temperature, meteorological conditions (ambient temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction, and relative humidity), and whether there were any observed flare flameouts; and

(F) The owner or operator of a pressure-assisted multi-point flare must install and operate pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header, as well as a valve position indicator monitoring system for each staging valve to ensure that the flare operates within the proper range of conditions as specified by the manufacturer. The pressure monitor must meet the requirements in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.

(G) If a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is operating under the requirements of an approved alternative means of emission limitations, the owner or operator shall either continue to comply with the terms of the alternative means of emission limitations or comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e)(4)(vii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(viii) If an owner or operator chooses to determine compositional analysis for net heating value with a continuous process mass spectrometer, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(viii)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator must meet the requirements in § 63.671(e)(2). The owner or operator may augment the minimum list of calibration gas components found in § 63.671(e)(2) with compounds found during a pre-survey or known to be in the gas through process knowledge.

(B) Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.

(C) For unknown gas components that have similar analytical mass fragments to calibration compounds, the owner or operator may report the unknowns as an increase in the overlapped calibration gas compound. For unknown compounds that produce mass fragments that do not overlap calibration compounds, the owner or operator may use the response factor for the nearest molecular weight hydrocarbon in the calibration mix to quantify the unknown component's NHV.

(D) The owner or operator may use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify any unknown components detected with a higher molecular weight than n-pentane.

(E) The owner or operator must perform an initial calibration to identify mass fragment overlap and response factors for the target compounds.

(F) The owner or operator must meet applicable requirements in Performance Specification 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for continuous monitoring system acceptance including, but not limited to, performing an initial multi-point calibration check at three concentrations following the procedure in Section 10.1 and performing the periodic calibration requirements listed for gas chromatographs in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part, for the process mass spectrometer. The owner or operator may use the alternative sampling line temperature allowed under Net Heating Value by Gas Chromatograph in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.

(G) The average instrument calibration error (CE) for each calibration compound at any calibration concentration must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for each component in the calibration blend must be calculated using the following equation:

(ix) An owner or operator using a gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer for compositional analysis for net heating value may choose to use the CE of NHVversus the cylinder tag value NHV as the measure of agreement for daily calibration and quarterly audits in lieu of determining the compound-specific CE. The CE for NHV at any calibration level must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for must be calculated using the following equation:

(x) Instead of complying with § 63.670(p) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must keep the flare monitoring records specified in § 63.1109(e).

(xi) Instead of complying with § 63.670(q) of subpart CC, the owner or operator must comply with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.1110(d) and (e)(4).

(xii) When determining compliance with the pilot flame requirements specified in § 63.670(b) and (g), substitute "pilot flame or flare flame" for each occurrence of "pilot flame."

(xiii) When determining compliance with the flare tip velocity and combustion zone operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) and (e), the requirement effectively applies starting with the 15-minute block that includes a full 15 minutes of the flaring event. The owner or operator is required to demonstrate compliance with the velocity and NHVcz requirements starting with the block that contains the fifteenth minute of a flaring event. The owner or operator is not required to demonstrate compliance for the previous 15-minute block in which the event started and contained only a fraction of flow.

(xiv) In lieu of meeting the requirements in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 of subpart CC, an owner or operator may submit a request to the Administrator for approval of an alternative test method in accordance with § 63.7(f). The alternative test method must be able to demonstrate on an ongoing basis at least once every 15-minutes that the flare meets 96.5% combustion efficiency and provide a description of the alternative recordkeeping and reporting that would be associated with the alternative test method. The alternative test method request may also include a request to use the alternative test method in lieu of the pilot or flare flame monitoring requirements of 63.670(g).
