
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Startup, shutdown, and malfunction referenced provisions.

(9)Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (e)(9)(i) through (xx) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(i) The second sentence of § 63.181(d)(5)(i) of subpart H.

(ii) The second sentence of § 63.983(a)(5) of subpart SS.

(iii) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS.

(iv) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS.

(v) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions" in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS.

(vi) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS.

(vii) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) of subpart SS.

(viii) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) of subpart SS.

(ix) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) of subpart SS.

(x) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3) of subpart SS.

(xi) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) of subpart SS.

(xii) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) of subpart SS.

(xiii) The phrase "except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section" from § 63.998(b)(6)(i) of subpart SS.

(xiv) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) of subpart SS.

(xv) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D) through (G) of subpart SS.

(xvi) Section 63.998(d)(3) of subpart SS.

(xvii) The phrase "may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or" from § 63.1024(f)(4)(i) of subpart UU.

(xviii) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A) of subpart UU.

(xix) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A) of subpart UU.

(xx) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1031(b)(1) of subpart UU.
