
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Requirements.

(3)(i) Table 8 to this section specifies the carbon black production standards applicability for existing and new sources. Applicability assessment procedures and methods are specified in § 63.1104. An owner or operator of an affected source is not required to perform applicability tests or other applicability assessment procedures if they opt to comply with the most stringent requirements for an applicable emission point pursuant to this subpart. General compliance, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements are specified in §§ 63.1108 through 63.1112. Before May 18, 2022, minimization of emissions from startup, shutdown, and malfunctions must be addressed in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.1111; the plan must also establish reporting and recordkeeping of such events. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required on and after May 18, 2022 and the requirements specified in § 63.1111 no longer apply; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of the plan must be retained and available on-site for 5 years after May 18, 2022. Procedures for approval of alternative means of emission limitations are specified in § 63.1113.

(ii) Pressure relief devices used to protect against overpressure in the case of catastrophic failure of your process filter system are exempt from the closed vent system inspection requirements of § 63.983(b) and (c). Exempt pressure relief devices must be designated and identified in your Notification of Compliance Status report.

(iii) The boiler and process heater tune up requirements of paragraphs (f)(3)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section apply beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources and as specified in Table 8 to § 63.1103(f), line entry (c).

(A) Inspect the combustion device for damage, wear, and buildup of material that could impact effectiveness, and clean or replace any components of the burner as necessary. Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the combustion device inspection until the first outage after the annual inspection is required, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection. At units where entry into a piece of process equipment or into a storage vessel is required to complete the tune-up inspections, inspections are required only during planned entries into the storage vessel or process equipment;

(B) When possible based upon the configuration of the burner, inspect the flame pattern and adjust the burner if needed to optimize the flame pattern. If manufacturer's specifications for an optimized flame pattern are available, the adjustment should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications;

(C) Inspect the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio, and ensure that it is functioning properly. For any calibrated components ensure that it is correctly calibrated The annual inspection may be delayed until the next scheduled unit shutdown. Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the inspection until the first outage after the annual inspection is required, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection;

(D) Optimize total emissions of CO. If manufacturer's specifications for optimization are available, this optimization should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications and with any NOrequirement to which the unit is subject. If no manufacturer's specifications are available, the inspection and cleaning procedures of paragraph (f)(3)(iii)(A) fulfill the obligations of this paragraph;

(E) Measure the concentrations in the effluent stream of CO in parts per million, by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, before and after the adjustments are made. Measurements may be taken using a portable CO analyzer and may be either on a dry or wet basis, as long as it is the same basis before and after the adjustments are made. If adjustments are not or cannot be made, make the measurements before and after the inspection and cleaning procedures specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iii)(A); and
