
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### 3

() The type and amount of fuel used over the 12 months prior to the tune-up, but only if the unit was physically and legally capable of using more than one type of fuel during that period. Units sharing a fuel meter may estimate the fuel used by each unit.

(iv) When determining the applicability of the carbon black production process vent requirements specified in line entry (b) to Table 8 to § 63.1103(f), an owner or operator is required to determine the HAP concentration of the process vent streams, at a minimum, as specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) As an alternative to testing all carbon black production process carbon black or product vent streams after the main unit filter to determine applicability, an owner or operator has the option of testing the first carbon black production process or product vent stream after the main unit filter. If the concentration of the emission stream is less than 260 parts per million by volume as determined by the process vent applicability determination requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv), then all process vents after the main unit filter and before the dryer are deemed to be in compliance and are not subject to the emission limits in Table 8 below.

(B) As an alternative to testing all carbon black production process carbon black or product vent streams after the dryer to determine applicability, an owner or operator has the option of testing the first carbon black production process carbon black or product vent stream after the dryer. If the concentration of the emission stream is less than 260 parts per million by volume as determined by the process vent applicability determination requirements specified in § 63.1103(f)(3)(iv), then all process vents after the dryer are deemed to be in compliance and are not subject to the emission limits in Table 8 below.

(C) Report the results of the applicability assessment according to paragraph § 63.1110(a)(10)(i).

(D) A test meeting the requirements of § 63.1104(e) conducted after November 18, 2016 and where no process changes have occurred since the test that may affect emissions, may be submitted according to § 63.1110(a)(10)(i)(A) through (C) in lieu of performing a new applicability determination.

(v) When determining the applicability of the carbon black production main unit filter process vent requirements specified in line entry (a) to Table 8 to § 63.1103(f), an owner or operator is required to determine the HAP concentration of the main unit filter process vent streams. Beginning November 19, 2021, report the results of any applicability assessment conducted after November 19, 2021, the applicability assessment according to paragraph § 63.1110(a)(10)(i).

(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (xiii) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(i) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS(equipment and operating requirements for fuel gas systems and processes requirements).

(ii) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS (nonflare control device equipment and operating requirements).

(iii) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions" in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS (halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device monitoring requirements).

(iv) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS (operation and maintenance of continuous parameter monitoring systems) "(ii) If under the referencing subpart, an owner or operator has developed a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the plan is followed, and the CPMS is repaired immediately, this action shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(E)."

(v) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) (performance test procedures) of subpart SS (general procedures for continuous unit operations): "Operations during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test."

(vi) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) (excluded data) of subpart SS: "(iii) Startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a) and maintains the records specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section."

(vii) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(viii) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(ix) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(x) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(xi) The phrase "except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section" from § 63.998(b)(6)(i) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(xii) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS. "If a source has developed a startup, shutdown and malfunction plan, and a monitored parameter is outside its established range or monitoring data are not collected during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction (and the source is operated during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a)) or during periods of nonoperation of the process unit or portion thereof (resulting in cessation of the emissions to which monitoring applies), then the excursion is not a violation and, in cases where continuous monitoring is required, the excursion does not count as the excused excursion for determining compliance."

(xiii) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D) through (G) (nonflare control and recovery device regulated source monitoring records) of subpart SS.

(xiv) Section 63.998(d)(3) (regulated source and control equipment start-up, shutdown, and malfunction records) of subpart SS.

(5) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e), the provisions specified in § 63.983(a)(1) of subpart SS that each closed vent system shall be designed and operated to collect the regulated material vapors from the emission point shall apply at all times, with the following exception: The closed vent system to the control device may be bypassed during startup or shutdown of a reactor when the excess oxygen concentration in the closed vent system is greater than or equal to 3 percent. Startup and shutdown of a reactor must be completed as expeditiously as possible, and in fewer than 15 minutes whenever possible. In no case shall the time period allowed be permitted to exceed 15 minutes. The bypass of the control device must use one of the methods specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (ii):
