
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Source category specific modifications to testing procedures.

(5)(i) When identifying equipment subject to any equipment leak requirements, an owner or operator is allowed to designate specific components of such equipment as never being safe to monitor with their Notification of Compliance Status report and periodic compliance reports. In order for an owner or operator to designate such equipment as never being safe to monitor, they must certify that monitoring such equipment at any time the CCMPU is operating is never safe (e.g., monitoring this equipment would present an unreasonable hazard or preclude testing personnel from meeting emergency evacuation requirements). If it is demonstrated to the Administrator's satisfaction that equipment designated by the owner or operator as never safe to monitor is appropriately designated, an owner or operator will not be required to monitor such equipment.

(ii) For process vent hydrogen cyanide emissions that are vented to a control device other than a flare during startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the design evaluation must include documentation that the control device being used achieves the required control efficiency during the reasonably expected maximum flow rate and emission rate during startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

(iii) If a facility controls process vent emissions during startup, shutdown, and malfunction by using a flare, an owner or operator is not required to perform flow rate and heat content testing as specified in § 63.987(b)(3)(ii) and (iii). In lieu of performing flow rate and heat content testing, an owner or operator is required to submit engineering calculations that substantiate that a flare meets the applicable heat content or flow rates, or provide data from a compliance assessment that the flare is in compliance under worst case conditions (e.g., maximum operating conditions).

(iv) If flare velocity and net heating value testing, as specified in § 63.11(b)(6)(ii) and (b)(7)(i), would create an unreasonable hazard for testing personnel, an owner or operator is allowed to submit engineering calculations that substantiate vent stream velocity and heat content of a flare in lieu of test data. These calculations are required to be submitted with the facilities' compliance test notification report for approval by the Administrator.

(v) The data from any performance test method used to measure HCN concentrations must be validated using EPA Method 301 (40 CFR part 63, appendix A).

(vi) For compliance with the wastewater free cyanide analysis provisions of table 9 to § 63.1103(g), free cyanide is to be measured according to ASTM D4282-15 or ASTM D7237-18 (both incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).
