
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Determination of overall HAP emission reduction for a process unit.

(4)(i) The owner or operator shall determine the overall HAP emission reduction for process vents in a process unit using Equation 1 of this section. The overall organic HAP emission reduction shall be determined for all process vents in the process unit.

(ii) The control efficiency shall be assigned as specified in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section.

(A) If the process vent is controlled using a flare in accordance with the provisions of ยง 63.987, or a combustion device in accordance with the provisions of ยง 63.988(b)(2), for which a performance test has not been conducted, the control efficiency shall be assumed to be 98 weight-percent. For hydrogen-fueled flares, an owner or operator may use a control efficiency greater than 98 weight-percent if they can provide engineering calculations and supporting information demonstrating a greater control efficiency.

(B) If the process vent is controlled using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device for which a performance test has been conducted in accordance with the provisions of ยง 63.997, the control efficiency shall be the efficiency determined by the performance test.
