
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1103 Source category-specific applicability, definitions, and requirements.
####### Startup, shutdown, and malfunction referenced provisions.

(6)Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(d), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (g)(6)(i) through (xxiii) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(i) The second/last sentence of § 63.983(a)(5) (requirements for pressure relief devices in a transfer rack's closed vent system requirements) of subpart SS: "Pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph."

(ii) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS (equipment and operating requirements for fuel gas systems and processes requirements).

(iii) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS (nonflare control device equipment and operating requirements).

(iv) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions" in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS (halogen scrubber and other halogen reduction device monitoring requirements).

(v) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS (operation and maintenance of continuous parameter monitoring systems) "(ii) If under the referencing subpart, an owner or operator has developed a start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the plan is followed, and the CPMS is repaired immediately, this action shall be recorded as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(E)."

(vi) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) (performance test procedures) of subpart SS (general procedures for continuous unit operations): "Operations during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction shall not constitute representative conditions for the purpose of a performance test."

(vii) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) (excluded data) of subpart SS: "(iii) Startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, if the owner or operator operates the source during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a) and maintains the records specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section."

(viii) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(ix) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)(3) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(x) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(xi) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) (alternate recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(xii) The phrase "except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section" from § 63.998(b)(6)(i) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS.

(xiii) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) (alternative recordkeeping) of subpart SS. "If a source has developed a startup, shutdown and malfunction plan, and a monitored parameter is outside its established range or monitoring data are not collected during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction (and the source is operated during such periods in accordance with § 63.1111(a)) or during periods of nonoperation of the process unit or portion thereof (resulting in cessation of the emissions to which monitoring applies), then the excursion is not a violation and, in cases where continuous monitoring is required, the excursion does not count as the excused excursion for determining compliance."

(xiv) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D) through (G) (nonflare control and recovery device regulated source monitoring records) of subpart SS.

(xv) Section 63.998(d)(3) (regulated source and control equipment start-up, shutdown and malfunction records) of subpart SS.

(xvi) The phrase "may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or" from § 63.1005(e)(4)(i) (leak repair records written procedures) of subpart TT.

(xvii) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1007(e)(1)(ii)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for pumps) of subpart TT.

(xviii) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1009(e)(1)(i)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for agitators) of subpart TT.

(xix) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1012(b)(1) (compressor seal system standard) of subpart TT.

(xx) The phrase "may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or" from § 63.1024(f)(4)(i) (leak repair records written procedures) of subpart UU.

(xxi) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for pumps) of subpart UU.

(xxii) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A) (dual mechanical seal system special provisions for agitators of subpart UU.

(xxiii) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1031(b)(1) (compressor seal system standard) of subpart UU.
