
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1104 Process vents from continuous unit operations: applicability assessment procedures and methods.
####### Method 25A.

(2)The procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration using Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(i) Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used only if a single organic HAP compound comprises greater than 50 percent of total organic HAP or TOC, by volume, in the process vent.

(ii) The process vent composition may be determined by either process knowledge, test data collected using an appropriate Environmental Protection Agency method or a method or data validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of part 63. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current process vent conditions.

(iii) The organic compound used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP compound present at greater than 50 percent of the total organic HAP or TOC by volume.

(iv) The span value for Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be equal to the appropriate control applicability concentration value specified in the applicable table(s) presented in ยง 63.1103 of this subpart.

(v) Use of Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(vi) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the concentration of TOC including methane and ethane measured by Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is below one-half the appropriate control applicability concentration specified in the applicable table for a subject source category in ยง 63.1103 in order to qualify for a low organic HAP concentration exclusion.
