
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1104 Process vents from continuous unit operations: applicability assessment procedures and methods.
####### Engineering assessment.

(k)For purposes of TRE index value determinations, engineering assessments may be used to determine process vent flow rate, net heating value, TOC emission rate, and total organic HAP emission rate for the representative operating condition expected to yield the lowest TRE index value. Engineering assessments shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (k)(1) through (4) of this section. If a process vent flow rate or process vent organic HAP or TOC concentration is being determined for comparison with the applicable flow rate or concentration value presented in the tables in ยง 63.1103 to determine control requirement applicability, engineering assessment may be used to determine the flow rate or concentration for the representative operating conditions expected to yield the highest flow rate or concentration.

(1) If the TRE index value calculated using such engineering assessment and the TRE index value equation in paragraph (j) of this section is greater than 4.0, then the owner or operator is not required to perform the measurements specified in paragraphs (e) through (i) of this section.

(2) If the TRE index value calculated using such engineering assessment and the TRE index value equation in paragraph (j) of this section is less than or equal to 4.0, then the owner or operator is required either to perform the measurements specified in paragraphs (e) through (i) of this section for control applicability assessment or comply with the requirements (or standards) specified in the tables presented in ยง 63.1103 (as applicable).

(3) Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the examples specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.

(ii) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(iii) Maximum flow rate, TOC emission rate, organic HAP emission rate, organic HAP or TOC concentration, or net heating value limit specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(iv) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to those specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(iv)(A) through (k)(3)(iv)(D) of this section:

(A) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum TOC or organic HAP concentrations,

(B) Estimation of maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities,

(C) Estimation of TOC or organic HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions, and

(D) Estimation of maximum expected net heating value based on the stream concentration of each organic compound or, alternatively, as if all TOC in the stream were the compound with the highest heating value.

(4) All data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented. The owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.
