
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart Q - Credit Assistance for Water Infrastructure Projects
###### ยง 35.10026 Federal flood risk management standard.

(a) In making WIFIA funding decisions under this rule, EPA will follow the requirements of Executive Orders 11988 and 13690, the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard, and the Guidelines for Implementing Executive Order 11988, Floodplain Management, and Executive Order 13690, Establishing a Federal Flood Risk Management Standard and a Process for Further Soliciting and Considering Stakeholder Input (Guidelines). Applicants shall submit information regarding the project that is sufficient for EPA to determine that the project is in compliance with the standards and requirements of these Executive Orders and Guidelines.

(b) Projects funded under the WIFIA program implemented through this rule must also demonstrate that they will meet or exceed applicable State, local, Tribal, and Territorial standards for flood risk and floodplain management.

(c) As a condition of funding projects involving new construction, substantial improvement, or to address substantial damage to structures and facilities, the project sponsor must demonstrate to EPA that it will use the expanded floodplain standard described in E.O. 13690. Projects involving substantial improvement or addressing substantial damage include projects equaling or exceeding 50 percent of the value of the structure or facility. With regard to projects meeting this definition, the project applicant shall determine whether the proposed project will occur in the floodplain using any of the approaches provided in section 6(c) of Executive Order 11988, as amended. Applicants for proposed projects that are not new construction, substantial improvement, or projects to address substantial damage shall use at minimum, the base 100-year floodplain standard for actions that are not "critical actions" as defined in Executive Order 11988 Section 6(d) and the 0.2%-annual chance floodplain for critical actions.

(d) For purposes of this section, projects funded under WIFIA will be considered Critical Actions as defined in Executive Order 11988, as amended, unless the Administrator determines and provides written notice to the applicant that the particular project is not considered to be a Critical Action.

(e) All applicants shall follow the Guidelines, including the Eight-Step Decision-Making Process described in the Guidelines, as a means of compliance with the requirements of section 2(a) of Executive Order 11988, as amended. EPA shall provide oversight to ensure that project applicants have complied with this process.

(f) The Administrator will not allow WIFIA funding for new construction, substantial improvement, or to address substantial damage to structures and facilities sited in or encroaching on a Floodway or a Coastal High Hazard Area/V-Zone, except for a functionally dependent use or to facilitate an open space use. The Administrator will make the determination of whether a proposed project is a functionally dependent use or a structure that facilitates an open space use. In addition to compliance with paragrpahs (a) through (e) of this section, applicants for projects sited in these zones must include engineering plans demonstrating that the facility will be accessible and operational to the elevation of the applicable level, including elevation or floodproofing of buildings, electronics, and mechanical components.
