
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1104 Process vents from continuous unit operations: applicability assessment procedures and methods.
####### Process change.

(2)(i) Whenever a process vent becomes subject to control requirements under this subpart as a result of a process change, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 60 days after the performance test or applicability assessment, whichever is sooner. The report may be submitted as part of the next Periodic Report required by § 63.1110(a)(5). The report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) A description of the process change;

(B) The results of the recalculation of the TOC or organic HAP concentration, flow rate, and/or TRE index value required under paragraphs (e), (f), and (j), and recorded under paragraph (l); and

(C) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.1103 by the schedules specified in that section for the affected source.

(ii) If a performance test is required as a result of a process change, the owner or operator shall specify that the performance test has become necessary due to a process change. This specification shall be made in the performance test notification to the Administrator, as specified in § 63.999(a)(1).

(iii) If a process change does not result in additional applicable requirements, then the owner or operator shall include a statement documenting this in the next Periodic Report required by § 63.1110(a)(5) after the process change was made.
