
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1106 Wastewater provisions.
####### Liquid streams in open systems.

(c)The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of Table 35 of subpart G of this part for each item of equipment meeting the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and either paragraph (c)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, with the exceptions provided in paragraphs (c)(5) and (6) of this section.

(1) The item of equipment is one of the types of equipment identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Drain or drain hub;

(ii) Manhole (including sumps and other points of access to a conveyance system);

(iii) Lift station;

(iv) Trench;

(v) Pipe;

(vi) Oil/water separator; and

(vii) Tanks with capacities of 38 mor greater.

(2) The item of equipment is part of an affected source that is subject to this subpart.

(3) The item of equipment is controlled less stringently than in Table 35 of subpart G of this part, and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from the provisions of this subpart, or a referenced subpart.

(4) The item of equipment:

(i) Is a drain, drain hub, manhole, lift station, trench, pipe, or oil/water separator that conveys water with a total annual average concentration greater than or equal to 10,000 parts per million by weight of Table 9 compounds (as defined under this subpart) at any flow rate; or a total annual average concentration greater than or equal to 1,000 parts per million by weight of Table 9 compounds (as defined under this subpart) at an annual average flow rate greater than or equal to 10 liters per minute.

(ii) Is a tank that receives one or more streams that contain water with a total annual average concentration greater than or equal to 1,000 parts per million by weight of Table 9 compounds (as defined under this subpart) at an annual average flow rate greater than or equal to 10 liters per minute. The owner or operator shall determine the characteristics of the stream as specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The characteristics of the stream being received shall be determined at the inlet to the tank.

(B) The characteristics shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.144(b) and (c).

(5) When terms used in Table 35 of subpart G of this part are defined in § 63.1101, the definition in § 63.1101 shall apply, for the purpose of this subpart. For terms used in Table 35 of subpart G of this part that are not defined in § 63.1101, the definitions in § 63.101 and § 63.111 shall apply.

(6) When Table 35 of subpart G of this part refers to 40 CFR 63.119(e)(1) or (e)(2) in the requirements for tanks, the owner or operator shall reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 95 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements in § 63.982(a)(1), for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) The compliance date for the affected sources subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1102.
