
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1106 Wastewater provisions.
####### Process wastewater.

(a)Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(16) and paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the HON process wastewater requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.148.

(1) When terms used in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 are defined in § 63.1101, the definition in § 63.1101 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart. For terms used in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 that are not defined in § 63.1101, the definitions in §§ 63.101 and 63.111 shall apply.

(2) When the term chemical manufacturing production process unit, or CMPU, is used in §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the phrase "a process unit whose primary product is a product produced by a source category subject to this subpart" shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) Owners and operators of affected sources are not required to comply with § 63.132(b)(1) and (d) and § 63.138(c). Further, owners and operators are exempt from all requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 that pertain solely and exclusively to organic HAP listed in Table 8 of subpart G of this part.

(4) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137, the alternative nonopacity emission standard provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When the HON storage vessel requirements for internal floating roofs contained in § 63.119(b) are referred to in § 63.133(a)(2)(ii), the requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1)(i), (2), and (b) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When the HON storage vessel requirements for external floating roofs in §§ 63.119(c) and 63.120(b)(5) and (6) are referred to in § 63.133(a)(2)(iii) and (d), the requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1)(ii), (2), and (b) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) For the purposes of this subpart, § 63.1063(c)(2)(iv) shall apply instead of § 63.133(e).

(8) When §§ 63.143(c), (d), (e)(3) and 63.146(a) require the submission of a request for approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or (g), the owner or operator requesting to monitor alternative parameters shall follow the procedures specified in § 63.1108(c) or as specified in a referenced subpart.

(9) When § 63.147(d) requires the owner or operator to keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.152(f), the owner or operator shall keep records of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.998(b).

(10) When § 63.132(a) and (b) refer to the "applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part," the applicable compliance dates specified in § 63.1102 shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.

(11) Where § 63.152(b) and/or the Notification of Compliance Status is referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1110(a)(4) shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.

(12) Where § 63.152(c) and/or the Periodic Report requirements are referred to §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1110(a)(5) shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.

(13) When Method 18 of Appendix A to part 60 of this chapter is specified in § 63.139(c)(1)(ii), § 63.145(d)(4), or § 63.145(i)(2), either Method 18 or Method 25A may be used. The use of Method 25A of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter shall comply with paragraphs (a)(13)(i) and (a)(13)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(14) When the HON recordkeeping requirements for by-pass lines in § 63.118(a)(3) is referred to in § 63.148(f), the requirements in § 63.998(d)(1)(ii)(A) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(15) When the Initial Notification requirements in § 63.182(b) are referred to in § 63.148(j), the requirements in § 63.1110(c) shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(16) For the purposes of this subpart, § 63.148(k) shall not apply.
