
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1107 Equipment leaks.

(a) Each piece of equipment within a process unit that can reasonably be expected to contain equipment in organic HAP service is presumed to be in organic HAP service unless an owner or operator demonstrates that the piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service. For a piece of equipment to be considered not in organic HAP service, it must be determined that the percent organic HAP content can be reasonably expected not to exceed the percent by weight control applicability criteria specified in § 63.1103 for an affected source on an annual average basis. For purposes of determining the percent organic HAP content of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts equipment, Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used. For purposes of determining the percent organic HAP content of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts equipment for the ethylene production affected sources, the following methods shall be used for equipment: For equipment in gas and vapor service, as that term is defined in Subpart UU of this part, shall use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; for equipment in liquid service, as that term is defined in Subpart UU of this part, shall use a combination of Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, SW-846-8260B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14); and SW-846-8270D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), as appropriate.

(b) An owner or operator may use good engineering judgment rather than the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section to determine that the percent organic HAP content does not exceed the percent by weight control applicability criteria specified in § 63.1103 for an affected source. When an owner or operator and the Administrator do not agree on whether a piece of equipment is not in organic HAP service, however, the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section shall be used to resolve the disagreement.

(c) If an owner or operator determines that a piece of equipment is in organic HAP service, the determination can be revised after following the procedures in paragraph (a) of this section, or by documenting that a change in the process or raw materials no longer causes the equipment to be in organic HAP service.

(d) Samples used in determining the percent organic HAP content shall be representative of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts the equipment.
