
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 35 - STATE AND LOCAL ASSISTANCE
##### Subpart Q - Credit Assistance for Water Infrastructure Projects
###### ยง 35.10030 American iron and steel.

(a) All projects receiving credit assistance under this part for the construction, alteration, maintenance, or repair of a project shall use only iron and steel products produced in the United States.

(b) By statute, at 33 U.S.C. 3914(b), "iron and steel products" means the following products made primarily of iron or steel: Lined or unlined pipes and fittings, manhole covers and other municipal castings, hydrants, tanks, flanges, pipe clamps and restraints, valves, structural steel, reinforced precast concrete, and construction materials. Equipment employed in construction but does not become part of the project is not an "iron and steel product" for purpose of this section.

(c) EPA may issue a waiver for a case or category of cases where EPA finds:

(1) That applying these requirements would be inconsistent with the public interest;

(2) Iron and steel products are not produced in the US in sufficient and reasonably available quantities and of a satisfactory quality; or

(3) Inclusion of iron and steel products produced in the US will increase the cost of the overall project by more than 25%.

(d) All guidance developed for compliance with American Iron and Steel requirements for EPA's State Revolving Fund programs shall apply to projects receiving credit assistance under this part. Such guidance can be found on EPA's Web site.

(e) All national waivers issued by EPA in accordance with section 436(b) of Pub. L. 113-76, 128 Stat. 346, 2014, Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014, shall apply to projects receiving credit assistance under this part in the same manner as they apply to projects receiving assistance under the Clean Water and Drinking Water State Revolving Fund programs, unless such waiver addresses the timing of the submission of engineering plans and specifications as the submission relates to Congressional appropriations for either the Clean Water or Drinking Water State Revolving Fund programs.
