
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1108 Compliance with standards and operation and maintenance requirements.
####### Requirements.

(a)The requirements of paragraphs (a)(1), (2), and (5) of this section apply to all affected sources except acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources and polycarbonate production affected sources, and beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources. The requirements of paragraph (a)(4) of this section apply only to acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources, polycarbonate production affected sources and beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources. The requirements of paragraphs (a)(3), (6), and (7) of this section apply to all affected sources.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the emission limitations and established parameter ranges of this part shall apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, malfunction, or non-operation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this subpart applies. However, if a startup, shutdown, malfunction or period of non-operation of one portion of an affected source does not affect the ability of a particular emission point to comply with the specific provisions to which it is subject, then that emission point shall still be required to comply with the applicable provisions of this subpart and any of the subparts that are referenced by this subpart during startup, shutdown, malfunction, or period of non-operation.

(2) If equipment leak requirements are referenced by this subpart for a subject source category, such requirements shall apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, process unit shutdown (as defined in § 63.1101), or non-operation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) in which the lines are drained and depressurized resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the equipment leak requirements apply.

(3) For batch unit operations, shutdown does not include the normal periods between batch cycles; and startup does not include the recharging of batch unit operations, or the transitional conditions due to changes in product.

(4)(i) For acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources and polycarbonate production affected sources, and beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources, the emission limitations and established parameter ranges of this part shall apply at all times except during periods of non-operation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this subpart applies. Equipment leak requirements shall apply at all times except during periods of non-operation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) in which the lines are drained and depressurized resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the equipment leak requirements apply.

(ii) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.

(5) During startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions when the emission standards of this subpart and the subparts referenced by this subpart do not apply pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, the owner or operator shall implement, to the extent reasonably available, measures to prevent or minimize excess emissions. The measures to be taken shall be identified in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (if applicable), and may include, but are not limited to, air pollution control technologies, recovery technologies, work practices, pollution prevention, monitoring, and/or changes in the manner of operation of the affected source. Back-up control devices are not required, but may be used if available. Compliance with an inadequate startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan developed pursuant to § 63.1111 is not a shield for failing to comply with good operation and maintenance requirements.

(6) Malfunctions shall be corrected as soon as practical after their occurrence.

(7) Operation and maintenance requirements established pursuant to section 112 of the Act are enforceable, independent of emissions limitations or other requirements in relevant standards.
