
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1108 Compliance with standards and operation and maintenance requirements.
####### Performance test.

(ii)(A) The Administrator may determine compliance with emission limitations of this subpart based on, but not limited to, the results of performance tests conducted according to the procedures specified in § 63.997, unless otherwise specified in this subpart or a subpart referenced by this subpart. For carbon black production affected sources, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(e), in addition to initial performance test requirements to demonstrate compliance with process vent requirements, subsequent performance tests are required no later than 60 months after the preceding performance test in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.997(e) for initial performance tests.

(B) For acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources, polycarbonate production affected sources, and beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources, performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator or an applicable subpart. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
