
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1109 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Decoking operation of ethylene cracking furnace records.

(h)For each decoking operation of an ethylene cracking furnace subject to the standards in § 63.1103(e)(7) and (8), the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Records that document the day and time each inspection specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(i) took place, the results of each inspection, and any repairs made to correct the flame impingement; and for any repair that is delayed beyond 1 calendar day, the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The reason for the delay.

(ii) An estimate of the emissions from shutdown for repair and an estimate of the emissions likely to result from delay of repair, and whether the requirements at § 63.1103(e)(7)(i)(A) or (B) were met.

(iii) The date the repair was completed or, if the repair has not been completed, a schedule for completing the repair.

(2) If the owner or operator chooses to monitor the COconcentration during decoking as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(ii), then for each decoking cycle, records must be kept for all measured COconcentration values beginning before the expected end of the air-in decoke time, the criterion used to begin the COmonitoring, and the target used to indicate combustion is complete. The target record should identify any time period the site routinely extends air addition beyond the specified COconcentration and any decoke completion assurance procedures used to confirm all coke has been removed prior to stopping air addition that occurs after the COtarget is reached.

(3) If the owner or operator chooses to monitor the temperature at the radiant tube(s) outlet during decoking as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(iii), then for each decoking cycle, records must be kept for all measured temperature values and the target used to indicate a reduction in temperature of the inside of the radiant tube(s) is necessary.

(4) If the owner or operator chooses to comply with § 63.1103(e)(7)(iv), then records must be kept that document that decoke air is no longer being added after each decoking cycle.

(5) If the owner or operator chooses to treat steam or feed to reduce coke formation as specified in § 63.1103(e)(7)(v), then records must be kept that document that the planned treatment occurred.

(6) For each decoking operation of an ethylene cracking furnace subject to the requirements in § 63.1103(e)(8), the owner or operator must keep records that document the day each inspection took place and the results of each inspection where an isolation problem was identified including any repairs made to correct the problem.
