
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1109 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Ethylene production pressure relief devices records.

(i)For each pressure relief device subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.1107(h)(3), the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Records of the prevention measures implemented as required in § 63.1107(h)(3)(ii).

(2) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year and the number of those releases for which the root cause was determined to be a force majeure event. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past five calendar years.

(3) For each release to the atmosphere, the owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.

(ii) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.

(iii) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.1107(h)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected pressure relief device, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.1107(h)(7)(i).

(iv) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.1107(h)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.
