
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1110 Reporting requirements.
####### https://cdx.epa.gov/,https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri

(ii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in ยง 63.1102(c) through (e), the owner or operator must submit all subsequent Notification of Compliance Status reports required under paragraph (a)(4) of this section in PDF format to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (). All subsequent Periodic Reports required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section must be submitted to the EPA via CEDRI using the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website () for this subpart beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in ยง 63.1102(c) through (e) or once the report template has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, then submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. Periodic Reports must be generated using the appropriate template on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Road, Durham NC 27703 to the attention of the applicable person specified in paragraphs (A) through (C) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.

(A) Ethylene Production Sector Lead

(B) Cyanide Chemicals Manufacturing Sector Lead

(C) Carbon Black Production Sector Lead

(iii) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in the EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, the owner or operator must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (a)(10)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either the EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.

(B) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.

(C) The outage may be planned or unplanned.

(D) The owner or operator must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.

(E) The owner or operator must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:
