
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1110 Reporting requirements.
####### Required reports.

(a)Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart shall submit the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable. Each owner or operator of an acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected source or polycarbonate production affected source subject to this subpart shall also submit the reports listed in paragraph (a)(9) of this section in addition to the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable. Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.1102(c) for ethylene production affected sources, specified in § 63.1102(d) for cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, and specified in § 63.1102(e) for carbon black production affected sources, each owner or operator of an ethylene production affected source, cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected source, and carbon black production affected source subject to this subpart shall also submit the reports listed in paragraph (a)(10) of this section in addition to the reports listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable.

(1) A Notification of Initial Startup described in paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable.

(2) An Initial Notification described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) A Notification of Compliance Status report described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(5) Periodic Reports described in paragraph (e) of this section.

(6) Application for approval of construction or reconstruction described in § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part.

(7) Startup, Shutdown, and Malfunction Reports described in § 63.1111 (except for acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected sources, carbon black production affected sources, cyanide chemicals manufacturing affected sources, ethylene production affected sources, and polycarbonate production affected sources).
