
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1110 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of Compliance Status,Contents.

(d)-(1)The owner or operator shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status for each affected source subject to this subpart containing the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1107(e)(3), the owner or operator of an acrylic and modacrylic fiber production affected source or polycarbonate production affected source shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring. For flares subject to the requirements of § 63.1103(e)(4), the owner or operator of an ethylene production affected source shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for flare monitoring. For pressure relief devices subject to the pressure release management work practice standards in § 63.1107(h)(3), the owner or operator of an ethylene production affected source shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (d)(1)(v) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.

(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(iv) and (v) of this section, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include the information specified in this subpart and the subparts referenced by this subpart. Alternatively, this information can be submitted as part of a title V permit application or amendment.

(ii) The Notification of Compliance Status shall include a statement from the owner or operator identifying which subpart he or she has elected to comply with, where given a choice, as provided for in § 63.1100(g).

(iii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.
