
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1110 Reporting requirements.
####### Initial Notification.

(c)Owners or operators of affected sources who are subject to this subpart shall notify the Administrator of the applicability of this subpart by submitting an Initial Notification according to the schedule described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The notice shall include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(2) through (7) of this section, as applicable. An application for approval of construction or reconstruction required under ยง 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part may be used to fulfill the initial notification requirements.

(1) The initial notification shall be postmarked within 1 year after the source becomes subject to this subpart.

(2) Identification of the storage vessels subject to this subpart.

(3) Identification of the process vents subject to this subpart.

(4) Identification of the transfer racks subject to this subpart.

(5) For equipment leaks, identification of the process units subject to this subpart.

(6) Identification of other equipment or emission points subject to this subpart.

(7) As an alternative to the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) and (c)(5) of this section, process units can be identified instead of individual pieces of equipment. For this alternative, the kind of emission point in the process unit that will comply must also be identified.
