
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1110 Reporting requirements.
####### Ethylene production maintenance vent reports.

(5)For maintenance vents subject to the requirements § 63.1103(e)(5), Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section for any release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.1103(e)(5)(i). For the purposes of this reporting requirement, owners or operators complying with § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(D) must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.

(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.

(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.

(iii) The LEL, vessel pressure, or mass of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.1103(e)(5)(i)(B) was used and active purging was initiated while the LEL was 10 percent or greater, also include the LEL of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.

(iv) An estimate of the mass of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.
