
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1111 Startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
####### Description and purpose of plan.

(1)The owner or operator of an affected source shall develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan that describes, in detail, procedures for operating and maintaining the affected source during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. This plan shall also include a program of corrective action for malfunctioning process and air pollution control equipment used to comply with relevant standards under this subpart. The plan shall also address routine or otherwise predictable CPMS malfunctions. This plan shall be developed by the owner or operator by the affected source's compliance date under this subpart. The requirement to develop this plan shall be incorporated into the source's title V permit. This requirement is optional for equipment that must comply with subparts TT or UU under this subpart. It is not optional for equipment equipped with a closed vent system and control device subject to this subpart and subpart SS of this part. The purpose of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is described in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) To ensure that owners or operators are prepared to correct malfunctions as soon as practical after their occurrence, in order to minimize excess emissions of regulated organic HAP; and

(ii) To reduce the reporting burden associated with periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (including corrective action taken to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation).

(2) Operation of source. During periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, the owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart YY shall operate and maintain such affected source (including associated air pollution control equipment and CPMS) in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions to the extent practical. The general duty to minimize emissions during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction does not require the owner or operator to achieve emission levels that would be required by the applicable standard at other times if this is not consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices, nor does it require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures (including the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by this section), review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
