
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### § 63.1111 Startup, shutdown, and malfunction.
####### Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reporting requirements.

(1)If actions taken by an owner or operator during a startup, shutdown, and malfunction of an affected source, or of a control device or monitoring system required for compliance (including actions taken to correct a malfunction) are consistent with the procedures specified in the affected source's plan, then the owner or operator shall state such information in a startup, shutdown, and malfunction report. During the reporting period, reports shall only be required for startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions during which excess emissions, as defined in § 63.1108(a)(5), occur during the reporting period. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction report can be submitted as part of a Periodic Report required under § 63.1110(a)(5), or on a more frequent basis if specified otherwise under this subpart or a subpart referenced by this subpart or as established otherwise by the permitting authority in the affected source's title V permit. The startup, shutdown, and malfunction report shall be delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half (or other calendar reporting period, as appropriate), unless the information is submitted with the Periodic Report. The report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) The name, title, and signature of the owner or operator or other responsible official certifying its accuracy.

(ii) The number of startup, shutdown, and malfunction events and the total duration of all periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction for the reporting period if the total duration amounts to either of the durations in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section. Records of the number of CPMS startup, shutdown, and malfunction events and the total duration of all periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction for the reporting period are required under § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(C) and (D) of this section.

(A) Total duration of periods of malfunctioning of a CPMS equal to or greater than 5 percent of that CPMS operating time for the reporting period; or

(B) Total duration of periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction for an affected source equal to or greater than 1 percent of that affected source's operating time for the reporting period.

(iii) Records documenting each startup, shutdown and malfunction event as required under § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(F).

(iv) Records documenting the total duration of operating time as required under § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(H).
