
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1112 Extension of compliance, and performance test, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting waivers and alternatives.
####### Notifications to owners and operators regarding compliance extensions for section 112(d) standards.

(12)(i) The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of approval or intention to deny approval of a request for an extension of compliance within 30 days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate a request submitted under paragraph (a)(4)(i) or (a)(5) of this section. The 30-day approval or denial period will begin after the owner or operator has been notified in writing that his/her application is complete. The Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of the status of his/her application, that is, whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination, within 30 days after receipt of the original application and within 30 days after receipt of any supplementary information that is submitted.

(ii) When notifying the owner or operator that his/her application is not complete, the Administrator will specify the information needed to complete the application and provide notice of opportunity for the applicant to present, in writing, within 30 days after he/she is notified of the incomplete application, additional information or arguments to the Administrator to enable further action on the application.

(iii) Before denying any request for an extension of compliance, the Administrator will notify the owner or operator in writing of the Administrator's intention to issue the denial, together with-

(A) Notice of the information and findings on which the intended denial is based; and

(B) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present in writing, within 15 days after he/she is notified of the intended denial, additional information or arguments to the Administrator before further action on the request.

(iv) The Administrator's final determination to deny any request for an extension will be in writing and will set forth the specific grounds on which the denial is based. The final determination will be made within 30 days after presentation of additional information or argument (if the application is complete), or within 30 days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.
