
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1112 Extension of compliance, and performance test, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting waivers and alternatives.
####### Request to use alternative monitoring method.

(4)(i)An owner or operator who wishes to use an alternative monitoring method shall submit an application to the Administrator as described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section. The application may be submitted at any time provided that the monitoring method is not used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant standard or other requirement. If the alternative monitoring method is to be used to demonstrate compliance with a relevant standard, the application shall be submitted not later than with the site-specific test plan required, or with the site-specific performance evaluation plan (if requested), or at least 60 days before the performance evaluation is scheduled to begin.

(ii) The application shall contain a description of the proposed alternative monitoring system and a performance evaluation test plan, if required. In addition, the application shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for an alternative monitoring method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the affected source using the required method.

(iii) The owner or operator may submit the information required in this paragraph well in advance of the submittal dates specified in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section to ensure a timely review by the Administrator in order to meet the compliance demonstration date specified in this section or the relevant standard.
