
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Categories: Generic Maximum Achievable Control Technology Standards
###### ยง 63.1112 Extension of compliance, and performance test, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting waivers and alternatives.
####### Waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

(d)(1) Until a waiver of a recordkeeping or reporting requirement has been granted by the Administrator under this paragraph, the owner or operator of an affected source remains subject to the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart and any subparts referenced by this subpart.

(2) Recordkeeping or reporting requirements may be waived upon written application to the Administrator if, in the Administrator's judgment, the affected source is achieving the relevant standard(s), or the source is operating under an extension of compliance, or the owner or operator has requested an extension of compliance and the Administrator is still considering that request. Electronic reporting to the EPA cannot be waived, and as such, compliance with the provisions of this paragraph does not relieve owners or operators of affected facilities of the requirement to submit electronic reports required in this subpart to the EPA.

(3) If an application for a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting is made, the application shall accompany the request for an extension of compliance under paragraph (a) of this section, any required compliance progress report or compliance status report required under this part or in the source's title V permit, or an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report required under ยง 63.999(c) or another subpart referenced by this subpart, whichever is applicable. The application shall include whatever information the owner or operator considers useful to convince the Administrator that a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting is warranted.

(4) The Administrator will approve or deny a request for a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements under this paragraph when he/she-

(i) Approves or denies an extension of compliance under paragraph (a) of this section; or

(ii) Makes a determination of compliance following the submission of a required Notification of Compliance Status report or excess emissions and continuous monitoring systems performance report; or

(iii) Makes a determination of suitable progress towards compliance following the submission of a compliance progress report, whichever is applicable.

(5) A waiver of any recordkeeping or reporting requirement granted under this paragraph may be conditioned on other recordkeeping or reporting requirements deemed necessary by the Administrator.

(6) Approval of any waiver granted under this section shall not abrogate the Administrator's authority under the Act or in any way prohibit the Administrator from later canceling the waiver. The cancellation will be made only after notice is given to the owner or operator of the affected source.
