
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Steel Pickling - HCl Process Facilities and Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration Plants
###### ยง 63.1161 Performance testing and test methods.
####### Establishment of hydrochloric acid regeneration plant operating parameters.

(c)(1) During the performance test for hydrochloric acid regeneration plants, the owner or operator shall establish site-specific operating parameter values for the minimum process offgas temperature and the maximum proportion of excess air fed to the process as described in ยง 63.1162(b)(1) of this subpart. During the emission test, each operating parameter must be monitored and recorded with sufficient frequency to establish a representative average value for that parameter, but no less frequently than once every 15 minutes for parameters that are monitored continuously. Amount of iron in the spent pickle liquor shall be determined for each run by sampling the liquor every 15 minutes and analyzing a composite of the samples. The owner or operator shall determine the compliant monitoring values as the averages of the values recorded during any of the runs for which results are used to establish the emission concentration per paragraph (a)(2) of this section. An owner or operator may conduct multiple performance tests to establish alternative compliant operating parameter values. Also, an owner or operator may reestablish compliant operating parameter values as part of any performance test that is conducted subsequent to the initial test or tests.

(2) [Reserved]
