
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Steel Pickling - HCl Process Facilities and Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration Plants
###### § 63.1162 Monitoring requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a new, reconstructed, or existing steel pickling facility or acid regeneration plant subject to this subpart shall:

(1) Conduct performance tests to measure the HCl mass flows at the control device inlet and outlet or the concentration of HCl exiting the control device according to the procedures described in § 63.1161 of this subpart. Performance tests shall be conducted either annually or according to an alternative schedule that is approved by the applicable permitting authority, but no less frequently than every 2years or twice per title V permit term. If any performance test shows that the HCl emission limitation is being exceeded, then the owner or operator is in violation of the emission limit.

(2) In addition to conducting performance tests, if a wet scrubber is used as the emission control device, install, operate, and maintain systems for the measurement and recording of the scrubber makeup water flow rate and, if required, recirculation water flow rate. These flow rates must be monitored continuously and recorded at least once per shift while the scrubber is operating. Operation of the wet scrubber with excursions of scrubber makeup water flow rate and recirculation water flow rate less than the minimum values established during the performance test or tests will require initiation of corrective action as specified by the maintenance requirements in § 63.1160(b)(2) of this subpart.

(3) If an emission control device other than a wet scrubber is used, install, operate, and maintain systems for the measurement and recording of the appropriate operating parameters.

(4) Failure to record each of the operating parameters listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section is a violation of the monitoring requirements of this subpart.

(5) Each monitoring device shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within 5 percent and shall be calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions but not less frequently than once per year.

(6) The owner or operator may develop and implement alternative monitoring requirements subject to approval by the Administrator.

(b) The owner or operator of a new, reconstructed, or existing acid regeneration plant subject to this subpart shall also install, operate, and maintain systems for the measurement and recording of the:

(1) Process offgas temperature, which shall be monitored continuously and recorded at least once every shift while the facility is operating in production mode; and

(2) Parameters from which proportion of excess air is determined. Proportion of excess air shall be determined by a combination of total air flow rate, fuel flow rate, spent pickle liquor addition rate, and amount of iron in the spent pickle liquor, or by any other combination of parameters approved by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.8(f) of subpart A of this part. Proportion of excess air shall be determined and recorded at least once every shift while the plant is operating in production mode.

(3) Each monitoring device must be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within 5 percent and must be calibrated in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions but not less frequently than once per year.

(4) Operation of the plant with the process offgas temperature lower than the value established during performance testing or with the proportion of excess air greater than the value established during performance testing is a violation of the operational standard specified in § 63.1159(a) of this subpart.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected hydrochloric acid storage vessel shall inspect each vessel semiannually to determine that the closed-vent system and either the air pollution control device or the enclosed loading and unloading line, whichever is applicable, are installed and operating when required.
