
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Steel Pickling - HCl Process Facilities and Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration Plants
###### § 63.1163 Notification requirements.
####### Initial notifications.

(a)As required by § 63.9(b) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator shall submit the following written notifications to the Administrator:

(1) The owner or operator of an area source that subsequently becomes subject to the requirements of the standard shall provide notification to the applicable permitting authority as required by § 63.9(b)(1) of subpart A of this part.

(2) As required by § 63.9(b)(2) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of an affected source that has an initial startup before June 22, 1999, shall notify the Administrator that the source is subject to the requirements of the standard. The notification shall be submitted not later than October 20, 1999 (or within 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this standard), and shall contain the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through 63.9(b)(2)(v) of subpart A of this part.

(3) As required by § 63.9(b)(3) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source, or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is an affected source, that has an initial startup after the effective date and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part, shall notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the standards no later than 120 days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The notification shall contain the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (v) of subpart A of this part, delivered or postmarked with the notification required in § 63.9(b)(5) of subpart A of this part.

(4) As required by § 63.9(b)(4) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed major affected source that has an initial startup after June 22, 1999, and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required under § 63.5(d) of subpart A of this part shall provide the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(4)(i) through 63.9(b)(4)(v) of subpart A of this part.

(5) As required by § 63.9(b)(5) of subpart A of this part, the owner or operator who, after June 22, 1999, intends to construct a new affected source or reconstruct an affected source subject to this standard, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes an affected source subject to this standard, shall notify the Administrator, in writing, of the intended construction or reconstruction.
