
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Steel Pickling - HCl Process Facilities and Hydrochloric Acid Regeneration Plants
###### § 63.1166 Implementation and enforcement.

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as the applicable State, local, or Tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or Tribal agency, then that agency, in addition to the U.S. EPA, has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. Contact the applicable U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or Tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or Tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and cannot be transferred to the State, local, or Tribal agency.

(c) The authorities that cannot be delegated to State, local, or Tribal agencies are as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Approval of alternatives to the requirements in §§ 63.1155, 63.1157 through 63.1159, and 63.1160(a).

(2) Approval of major alternatives to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.

(3) Approval of any alternative measurement methods for HCl and CLto those specified in § 63.1161(d)(1).

(4) Approval of major alternatives to monitoring under § 63.8(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.

(5) Approval of any alternative monitoring requirements to those specified in §§ 63.1162(a)(2) through (5) and 63.1162(b)(1) through (3).

(6) Approval of major alternatives to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(f), as defined in § 63.90, and as required in this subpart.

(7) Waiver of recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1165.

(8) Approval of an alternative schedule for conducting performance tests to the requirement specified in § 63.1162(a)(1).
