
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Additional Monitoring Information
####### § 63.1187 What do I need to know about operations, maintenance, and monitoring plans?

(a) An operations, maintenance, and monitoring plan must be submitted to the Administrator for review and approval as part of your application for the title V permit.

(b) The operations, maintenance, and monitoring plan must include the following:

(1) Process and control device parameters you will monitor to determine compliance, along with established operating levels or ranges for each process or control device.

(2) A monitoring schedule.

(3) Procedures for properly operating and maintaining control devices used to meet the standards in §§ 63.1178 and 63.1179 of this subpart. These procedures must include an inspection of each incinerator at least once per year. At a minimum, you must do the following as part of an incinerator inspection:

(i) Inspect all burners, pilot assemblies, and pilot sensing devices for proper operation. Clean pilot sensor if necessary.

(ii) Ensure proper adjustment of combustion air, and adjust if necessary.

(iii) Inspect, when possible, all internal structures (such as baffles) to ensure structural integrity per the design specifications.

(iv) Inspect dampers, fans, and blowers for proper operation.

(v) Inspect motors for proper operation.

(vi) Inspect, when possible, combustion chamber refractory lining. Clean, and repair or replace lining if necessary.

(vii) Inspect incinerator shell for proper sealing, corrosion, and/or hot spots.

(viii) For the burn cycle that follows the inspection, document that the incinerator is operating properly and make any necessary adjustments.

(ix) Generally observe whether the equipment is maintained in good operating condition.

(x) Complete all necessary repairs as soon as practicable.

(4) Procedures for keeping records to document compliance.

(5) Corrective actions you will take if process or control device parameters vary from the levels established during performance testing. For bag leak detection system alarms, example corrective actions that may be included in the operations, maintenance, and monitoring plan include:

(i) Inspecting the fabric filter for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in emissions.

(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.

(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.

(iv) Sealing off a defective fabric filter compartment.

(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.

(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.
