
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Additional Monitoring Information
####### § 63.1185 How do I establish the average operating temperature of an incinerator?

(a) During the performance test, you must establish the average operating temperature of an incinerator as follows:

(1) Continuously measure the operating temperature of the incinerator.

(2) Determine and record the average temperatures in consecutive 15-minute blocks.

(3) Determine and record the arithmetic average of the recorded average temperatures measured in consecutive 15-minute blocks for each of the one-hour performance test runs.

(4) Determine and record the arithmetic average of the three one-hour average temperatures during the performance test runs. The average of the three one-hour performance test runs establishes the temperature level to use to monitor compliance.

(b) To comply with the requirements for maintaining the operating temperature of an incinerator after the performance test, you must measure and record the average operating temperature of the incinerator as required by §§ 63.1182 and 63.1183 of this subpart. This average operating temperature of the incinerator is based on the arithmetic average of the one-hour average temperatures for each consecutive three-hour period and is determined in the same manner described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.
