
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Performance Tests and Methods
####### ยง 63.1189 What test methods do I use?

You must use the following test methods to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits:

(a) Method 1 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for the selection of the sampling port locations and number of sampling ports.

(b) Method 2 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate.

(c) Method 3 or 3A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for oxygen and carbon dioxide for diluent measurements needed to correct the concentration measurements to a standard basis.

(d) Method 4 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for moisture content of the stack gas.

(e) Method 5 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for the concentration of PM. Each PM test run must consist of a minimum run time of three hours and a minimum sample volume of 3.75 dscm (135 dscf).

(f) Method 10 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter for the concentration of CO, using the continuous sampling option described in section 7.1.1 of the method. Each CO test run must consist of a minimum run time of one hour.

(g) Method 318 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to this part for the concentration of formaldehyde, phenol, methanol, and carbonyl sulfide.

(h) Method to determine the free-formaldehyde content of each resin lot in appendix A of this subpart.

(i) Method 26A or 320 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A to this part for the concentration of hydrogen fluoride and hydrogen chloride.
