
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Notification, Recordkeeping, and Reporting
####### § 63.1193 What reports must I submit?
######## http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/index.html,http://cdx.epa.gov/epa_home.asp

(1) For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site (), you must submit the results of the performance test to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (). Performance test data must be submitted in a file format generated through the use of the EPA's ERT. Alternatively, you may submit performance test data in an electronic file format consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, once the XML schema is available. If you claim that some of the performance test information being submitted is confidential business information (CBI), you must submit a complete file generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, including information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA. The electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAPQS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same ERT or alternate file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.

(2) For data collected using test methods that are not supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT Web site, you must submit the results of the performance test to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) A report of each event as required by § 63.10(b) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part, including a report if an action taken during a startup, shutdown, or malfunction is inconsistent with the procedures in the plan as described in § 63.6(e)(3) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part.

(d) An operations, maintenance, and monitoring plan as specified in § 63.1187 of this subpart.

(e) A semiannual report as required by § 63.10(e)(3) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part if measured emissions exceed the applicable standard or a monitored parameter varies from the level established during performance testing. The report must contain the information specified in § 63.10(c) of the general provisions, as well as the relevant records required by § 63.1192(b) of this subpart.

(f) A semiannual report stating that no excess emissions or deviations of monitored parameters occurred during the reporting period as required by § 63.10(e)(3)(v) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part if no deviations have occurred.

(g) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (a) of this section in paper format.
