
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Performance Tests and Methods
####### ยง 63.1188 What performance test requirements must I meet?

You must meet the following performance test requirements:

(a) All monitoring systems and equipment must be installed, operational, and properly calibrated before the performance tests.

(b) Conduct a performance test, consisting of three test runs, for each cupola and curing oven or combined collection/curing operation subject to this subpart at the maximum production rate to demonstrate compliance with each of the applicable emissions limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(c) Following the initial performance or compliance test to be conducted within 180 days of the effective date of this rule, you must conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with each of the applicable emissions limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, at least once every 5 years.

(d) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, measure emissions of PM, carbon monoxide, carbonyl sulfide, hydrogen fluoride, and hydrogen chloride from each existing, new, or reconstructed cupola.

(e) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, measure emissions of formaldehyde, phenol, and methanol from each existing, new, or reconstructed curing oven or combined collection/curing operation.

(f) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, measure emissions at the outlet of the control device for PM, carbon monoxide, carbonyl sulfide, hydrogen fluoride, hydrogen chloride, formaldehyde, phenol, and methanol.

(g) To determine the average melt rate, measure and record the amount of raw materials, excluding coke, charged into and melted in each cupola during each performance test run. Determine and record the average hourly melt rate for each performance test run. Determine and record the arithmetic average of the average hourly melt rates associated with the three performance test runs. The average hourly melt rate of the three performance test runs is used to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits.

(h) Compute and record the average emissions of the three performance test runs and use the equations in ยง 63.1190 of this subpart to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits.

(i) Comply with control device and process operating parameter monitoring requirements for performance testing as specified in this subpart.
