
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Notification, Recordkeeping, and Reporting
####### § 63.1191 What notifications must I submit?

You must submit written or electronic notifications to the Administrator as required by § 63.9(b) through (h). Electronic notifications are encouraged when possible. These notifications include, but are not limited to, the following:

(a) Notification that the following types of sources are subject to the standard:

(1) An area source that increases its emissions so that it becomes a major source.

(2) A source that has an initial startup before the effective date of the standard.

(3) A new or reconstructed source that has an initial startup after the effective date of the standard and doesn't require an application for approval of construction or reconstruction under § 63.5(d) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part.

(b) Notification of intention to construct a new major source or reconstruct a major source where the initial startup of the new or reconstructed source occurs after the effective date of the standard and an application for approval of construction or reconstruction under § 63.5(d) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part is required.

(c) Notification of special compliance obligations for a new source that is subject to special compliance requirements in § 63.6(b)(3) and (4) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part.

(d) Notification of a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin.

(e) Notification of compliance status.
