
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mineral Wool Production
###### Notification, Recordkeeping, and Reporting
####### ยง 63.1192 What recordkeeping requirements must I meet?

You must meet the following recordkeeping requirements:

(a) Maintain files of all information required by ยง 63.10(b) of the general provisions in subpart A of this part, including all notifications and reports.

(b) Maintain records of the following information also:

(1) Cupola production (melt) rate (Mg/hr (tons/hr) of melt).

(2) All bag leak detection system alarms. Include the date and time of the alarm, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the alarm was corrected.

(3) The free-formaldehyde content of each resin lot and the binder formulation, including formaldehyde content, of each binder batch used in the manufacture of bonded products.

(4) Incinerator operating temperature and results of incinerator inspections. For all periods when the average temperature in any three-hour block period fell below the average temperature established during the performance test, and all periods when the inspection identified incinerator components in need of repair or maintenance, include the date and time of the problem, when corrective actions were initiated, the cause of the problem, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and when the cause of the problem was corrected.

(c) Retain each record for at least five years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, corrective action, maintenance, record, or report. The most recent two years of records must be retained at the facility. The remaining three years of records may be retained off site.

(d) Records must be maintained in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to ยง 63.10 of the General Provisions that are referenced in Table 1 to this subpart. Electronic recordkeeping is encouraged.

(e) Report the required information on paper or on a labeled computer disk using commonly available and compatible computer software.
