
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 40 - RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION GRANTS
##### ยง 40.110 Authority.
###### et seq.

(a) The Clean Air Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1857

(1) Section 103 (42 U.S.C. 1857b) authorizes grants for research and demonstration projects relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, and control of air pollution.

(2) Section 104 (42 U.S.C. 1857b-1) authorizes grants for research and development of new and improved methods for the prevention and control of air pollution resulting from the combustion of fuels.

(b) The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended, Public Law 92-500.

(1) Section 104(b) (33 U.S.C. 1254(b)) authorizes grants for research and demonstration projects relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and elimination of water pollution.

(2) Section 104(h) (33 U.S.C. 1254(h)) authorizes grants for research and development of new and improved methods for the prevention, removal, reduction, and elimination of pollution in lakes, including the undesirable effects of nutrients and vegetation, and for construction of publicly owned research facilities for such purpose.

(3) Section 104(i) (33 U.S.C. 1254(i)) authorizes grants for research, studies, experiments, and demonstrations relative to the removal of oil from any waters and for the prevention, control, and elimination of oil and hazardous substances pollution.

(4) Section 104(r) (33 U.S.C. 1254(r)) authorized grants for the conduct of basic research into the structure and function of freshwater aquatic ecosystems, and to improve understanding of the ecological characteristics necessary to the maintenance of the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of freshwater aquatic ecosystems.

(5) Section 104(s) (33 U.S.C. (s)) authorizes grants to conduct and report on interdisciplinary studies on river systems, including hydrology, biology, ecology, economics, the relationship between river uses and land uses, and the effects of development within river basins on river systems and on the value of water resources and water-related activities.

(6) Section 105(a) (33 U.S.C. 1255(a)) authorizes grants for research and demonstration of new or improved methods for preventing, reducing, and eliminating the discharge into any waters of pollutants from sewers which carry storm water or both storm water and pollutants; and for the demonstration of advanced waste treatment and water purification methods (including the temporary use of new or improved chemical additives which provide substantial immediate improvement to existing treatment processes), or new or improved methods of joint treatment systems for municipal and industrial wastes.

(7) Section 105(b) (33 U.S.C. 1255(b)) authorizes grants for demonstrating, in river basins or portions thereof, advanced treatment and environmental enhancement techniques to control pollution from all sources, within such basin or portions thereof, including nonpoint sources, together with in-stream water quality improvement techniques.

(8) Section 105(c) (33 U.S.C. 1255(c)) authorizes grants for research and demonstration projects for prevention of pollution of any waters by industry including, but not limited to, the prevention, reduction, and elimination of the discharge of pollutants.

(9) Section 105(e)(1) (33 U.S.C. 1255(e)(1)) authorizes grants for research and demonstration projects with respect to new and improved methods of preventing, reducing, and eliminating pollution from agriculture.

(10) Section 105(e)(2) (33 U.S.C. 1255(e)(2)) authorizes grants for demonstration projects with respect to new and improved methods of preventing, reducing, storing, collecting, treating, or otherwise eliminating pollution from sewage in rural and other areas where collection of sewage in conventional, communitywide sewage collection systems is impractical, uneconomical, or otherwise infeasible, or where soil conditions or other factors preclude the use of septic tank and drainage field systems.

(11) Section 107 (33 U.S.C. 1257) authorizes grants for projects to demonstrate comprehensive approaches to the elimination or control of acid or other mine water pollution resulting from active or abandoned mining operations and other environmental pollution affecting water quality within all or part of a watershed or river basin, including siltation from surface mining.

(12) Section 108 (33 U.S.C. 1258) authorizes grants for projects to demonstrate new methods and techniques, and to develop preliminary plans for the elimination or control of pollution within all or any part of the watersheds of the Great Lakes.

(13) Section 113 (33 U.S.C. 1263) authorizes grants for projects to demonstrate methods to provide for central community facilities for safe water and elimination or control of pollution in those native villages of Alaska without such facilities.
