
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1206 When and how must you comply with the standards and operating requirements?
######## Compliance with the carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emission standards.

(6)This paragraph applies to sources that elect to comply with the carbon monoxide and hydrocarbon emissions standards of this subpart by documenting continuous compliance with the carbon monoxide standard using a continuous emissions monitoring system and documenting compliance with the hydrocarbon standard during the destruction and removal efficiency (DRE) performance test or its equivalent.

(i) If a DRE test performed pursuant to ยง 63.1207(c)(2) is acceptable as documentation of compliance with the DRE standard, you may use the highest hourly rolling average hydrocarbon level achieved during the DRE test runs to document compliance with the hydrocarbon standard. An acceptable DRE test is any test for which the data and results are determined to meet quality assurance objectives (on a site-specific basis) such that the results adequately demonstrate compliance with the DRE standard.

(ii) If during this acceptable DRE test you did not obtain hydrocarbon emissions data sufficient to document compliance with the hydrocarbon standard, you must either:

(A) Perform, as part of the performance test, an "equivalent DRE test" to document compliance with the hydrocarbon standard. An equivalent DRE test is comprised of a minimum of three runs each with a minimum duration of one hour during which you operate the combustor as close as reasonably possible to the operating parameter limits that you established based on the initial DRE test. You must use the highest hourly rolling average hydrocarbon emission level achieved during the equivalent DRE test to document compliance with the hydrocarbon standard; or

(B) Perform a DRE test as part of the performance test.
