
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 40 - RESEARCH AND DEMONSTRATION GRANTS
##### ยง 40.130 Eligibility.

Except as otherwise provided below, grants for research and demonstration projects may be awarded to any responsible applicant in accordance with 2 CFR part 200.

(a) The Clean Air Act, as amended-public or nonprofit private agencies, institutions, organizations, and to individuals.

(b) Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.

(1) Section 8001, public authorities, agencies, and institutions; private agencies and institutions; and individuals.

(2) Sections 8004 and 8005, public agencies and authorities or private persons.

(3) Section 8006, State, municipal, interstate or intermunicipal agencies.

(4) No grant may be made under this Act to any private profit-making organization.

(c) The Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, as amended-other Federal agencies, universities, or others as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of the act.

(d) The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended:

(1) Section 104(b)-State water pollution control agencies, interstate agencies, other public or nonprofit private agencies, institutions, organizations, and to individuals.

(2) Sections 104 (h) and (i)-public or private agencies and organizations and to individuals.

(3) Section 104(r)-colleges and universities.

(4) Section 104(s)-institutions of higher education.

(5) Sections 105 (a), (e)(2), and 107-State, municipal, interstate, and intermunicipal agencies.

(6) Section 195(b)-State or States or interstate agency.

(7) Sections 105 (c) and (e)(1)-persons.

(8) Section 108-State, political subdivision, interstate agency, or other public agency, or combination thereof.

(9) Section 113-only to the State of Alaska.

(e) The Public Health Service Act, as amended-only to nonprofit agencies, institutions, organizations, and to individuals.
