
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1206 When and how must you comply with the standards and operating requirements?
######## Operator training and certification.

(6)(i) You must establish training programs for all categories of personnel whose activities may reasonably be expected to directly affect emissions of hazardous air pollutants from the source. Such persons include, but are not limited to, chief facility operators, control room operators, continuous monitoring system operators, persons that sample and analyze feedstreams, persons that manage and charge feedstreams to the combustor, persons that operate emission control devices, and ash and waste handlers. Each training program shall be of a technical level commensurate with the person's job duties specified in the training manual. Each commensurate training program shall require an examination to be administered by the instructor at the end of the training course. Passing of this test shall be deemed the "certification" for personnel, except that, for control room operators, the training and certification program shall be as specified in paragraphs (c)(6)(iii) through (c)(6)(vi) of this section.

(ii) You must ensure that the source is operated and maintained at all times by persons who are trained and certified to perform these and any other duties that may affect emissions of hazardous air pollutants. A certified control room operator must be on duty at the site at all times the source is in operation.

(iii) Hazardous waste incinerator control room operators must:

(A) Be trained and certified under a site-specific, source-developed and implemented program that meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(6)(v) of this section; or

(B) Be trained under the requirements of, and certified under, one of the following American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) standards: QHO-1-1994, QHO-1a-1996, or QHO-1-2004 (Standard for the Qualification and Certification of Hazardous Waste Incinerator Operators). If you elect to use the ASME program:
