
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart A - Introduction
###### ยง 1.7 Location of principal offices.

(a) The EPA Headquarters is in Washington, DC. The mailing address is 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(b) The address of (and States served by) the EPA Regional Offices (see ยง 1.61) are:

(1) Region I, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 5 Post Office Square-Suite 100, Boston, MA 02109-3912. (Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and Vermont.)

(2) Region II, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Room 900, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, NY 10278. (New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin Islands.)

(3) Region III, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 841 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, PA 19107. (Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia, and the District of Columbia.)

(4) Region IV, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 345 Courtland Street NE., Atlanta, GA 30365. (Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee.)

(5) Region V, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 77 West Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604. (Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio and Wisconsin.)

(6) EPA Region 6, 1201 Elm Street, Suite 500, Dallas, Texas 75270-2102. (Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma, and Texas.)

(7) Region 7, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 11201 Renner Boulevard, Lenexa, Kansas 66219. (Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.)

(8) Region VIII, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 999 18th street, One Denver Place, Denver, CO 80202. (Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah, and Wyoming.)

(9) Region IX, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, California 94105. (Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada; the territories of American Samoa and Guam; the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands; the territories of Baker Island, Howland Island, Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Midway Atoll, Palmyra Atoll, and Wake Islands; and certain U.S. Government activities in the freely associated states of the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau.)

(10) Region X, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA 98101. (Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.)
