
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## One-Time Dioxin/Furan Test for Sources Not Subject to a Numerical Dioxin/Furan Standard.

(3)For solid fuel boilers and hydrochloric acid production furnaces, for lightweight aggregate kilns that are not subject to a numerical dioxin/furan emission standard under ยง 63.1221, and liquid fuel boilers that are not subject to a numerical dioxin/furan emission standard under ยง 63.1217, you must conduct a one-time emission test for dioxin/furan under feed and operating conditions that are most likely to reflect daily maximum operating variability, similar to a dioxin/furan comprehensive performance test.

(i) You must conduct the dioxin/furan emissions test no later than the deadline for conducting the initial comprehensive performance test.

(ii) You may use dioxin/furan emissions data from previous testing to meet this requirement, provided that:

(A) The testing was conducted under feed and operating conditions that are most likely to reflect daily maximum operating variability, similar to a dioxin/furan compliance test;

(B) You have not changed the design or operation of the source in a manner that could significantly affect stack gas dioxin/furan emission concentrations; and

(C) The data meet quality assurance objectives that may be determined on a site-specific basis.

(iii) You may use dioxin/furan emissions data from a source to represent emissions from another on-site source in lieu of testing (i.e., data in lieu of testing) if the design and operation, including hazardous waste feed and other feedstreams, of the sources are identical.

(iv) You must include the results of the one-time dioxin/furan emissions test with the results of the initial comprehensive performance test in the Notification of Compliance.

(v) You must repeat the dioxin/furan emissions test if you change the design or operation of the source in a manner that may increase dioxin/furan emissions.

(vi) Sources that are required to perform the one-time dioxin/furan test pursuant to paragraph (b)(3) of this section are not required to perform confirmatory performance tests.
