
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### § 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## Data in lieu of the initial comprehensive performance test.

(2)(i) You may request that previous emissions test data serve as documentation of conformance with the emission standards of this subpart provided that the previous testing:

(A) Was initiated after 54 months prior to the compliance date, except as provided by paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) or (c)(2)(iv) of this section;

(B) Results in data that meet quality assurance objectives (determined on a site-specific basis) such that the results demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards;

(C) Was in conformance with the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section; and

(D) Was sufficient to establish the applicable operating parameter limits under § 63.1209.

(ii) You must submit data in lieu of the initial comprehensive performance test in lieu of (i.e., if the data are in lieu of all performance testing) or with the notification of performance test required under paragraph (e) of this section.

(iii) The data in lieu test age restriction provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section does not apply for the duration of the interim standards (i.e., the standards published in theon February 13, 2002, 67 FR 6792). See 40 CFR parts 63, 264, 265, 266, 270, and 271 revised as of July 1, 2002. Paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section does not apply until EPA promulgates permanent replacement standards pursuant to the Settlement Agreement noticed in theon November 16, 2001 (66 FR 57715).

(iv) The data in lieu test age restriction provided in paragraph (c)(2)(i)(A) of this section does not apply to DRE data provided you do not feed hazardous waste at a location in the combustion system other than the normal flame zone.

(3) For incinerators, cement kilns, and lightweight aggregate kilns, you must commence the initial comprehensive performance test to demonstrate compliance with the standards under §§ 63.1219, 63.1220, and 63.1221 not later than 12 months after the compliance date.
