
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## Confirmatory performance test.

(ii)You must submit to the Administrator a notification of your intention to conduct a confirmatory performance test and CMS performance evaluation and a site-specific test plan and CMS performance evaluation test plan at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin. The Administrator will notify you of approval or intent to deny approval of the site-specific test plan and CMS performance evaluation test plan within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original test plans.

(2) You must make your site-specific test plan and CMS performance evaluation test plan available to the public for review no later than 60 calendar days before initiation of the test. You must issue a public notice to all persons on your facility/public mailing list (developed pursuant to 40 CFR 70.7(h), 71.11(d)(3)(i)(E) and 124.10(c)(1)(ix)) announcing the availability of the test plans and the location where the test plans are available for review. The test plans must be accessible to the public for 60 calendar days, beginning on the date that you issue your public notice. The location must be unrestricted and provide access to the public during reasonable hours and provide a means for the public to obtain copies. The notification must include the following information at a minimum:

(i) The name and telephone number of the source's contact person;

(ii) The name and telephone number of the regulatory agency's contact person;

(iii) The location where the test plans and any necessary supporting documentation can be reviewed and copied;

(iv) The time period for which the test plans will be available for public review; and

(v) An expected time period for commencement and completion of the performance test and CMS performance evaluation test.
