
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## Steady-state conditions.

(iii)(A) Prior to obtaining performance test data, you must operate under performance test conditions until you reach steady-state operations with respect to emissions of pollutants you must measure during the performance test and operating parameters under ยง 63.1209 for which you must establish limits. During system conditioning, you must ensure that each operating parameter for which you must establish a limit is held at the level planned for the performance test. You must include documentation in the performance test plan under paragraph (f) of this section justifying the duration of system conditioning.

(B) If you own or operate a hazardous waste cement kiln that recycles collected particulate matter (i.e., cement kiln dust) into the kiln, you must sample and analyze the recycled particulate matter prior to obtaining performance test data for levels of selected metals that must be measured during performance testing to document that the system has reached steady-state conditions (i.e., that metals levels have stabilized). You must document the rationale for selecting metals that are indicative of system equilibrium and include the information in the performance test plan under paragraph (f) of this section. To determine system equilibrium, you must sample and analyze the recycled particulate matter hourly for each selected metal, unless you submit in the performance test plan a justification for reduced sampling and analysis and the Administrator approves in writing a reduced sampling and analysis frequency.
