
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## Confirmatory performance test.

(2)If you determine (based on CEM recordings, results of analyses of stack samples, or results of CMS performance evaluations) that you have failed the dioxin/furan emission standard during a confirmatory performance test, you must cease burning hazardous waste immediately. You must make this determination within 90 days following completion of the performance test. To burn hazardous waste in the future:

(i) You must submit to the Administrator for review and approval a test plan to conduct a comprehensive performance test to identify revised limits on the applicable dioxin/furan operating parameters specified in ยง 63.1209(k);

(ii) You must submit to the Administrator a Notification of Compliance with the dioxin/furan emission standard under the provisions of paragraphs (j) and (k) of this section and this paragraph (l). You must include in the Notification of Compliance the revised limits on the applicable dioxin/furan operating parameters specified in ยง 63.1209(k); and

(iii) Until the Notification of Compliance is submitted, you must not burn hazardous waste except for purposes of pretesting or confirmatory performance testing, and for a maximum of 720 hours (renewable at the discretion of the Administrator), except as provided by paragraph (l)(3) of this section.

(3) You may petition the Administrator to obtain written approval to burn hazardous waste in the interim prior to submitting a Notification of Compliance for purposes other than testing or pretesting. You must specify operating requirements, including limits on operating parameters, that you determine will ensure compliance with the emission standards of this subpart based on available information including data from the failed performance test. The Administrator will review, modify as necessary, and approve if warranted the interim operating requirements. An approval of interim operating requirements will include a schedule for submitting a Notification of Compliance.
