
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## Confirmatory performance testing.

(2)You must conduct confirmatory performance testing for dioxin/furan under normal operating conditions for the following parameters:

(i) Carbon monoxide (or hydrocarbon) CEMS emissions levels must be within the range of the average value to the maximum value allowed, except as provided by paragraph (g)(2)(v) of this section. The average value is defined as the sum of the hourly rolling average values recorded (each minute) over the previous 12 months, divided by the number of rolling averages recorded during that time. The average value must not include calibration data, startup data, shutdown data, malfunction data, and data obtained when not burning hazardous waste;

(ii) Each operating limit (specified in ยง 63.1209) established to maintain compliance with the dioxin/furan emission standard must be held within the range of the average value over the previous 12 months and the maximum or minimum, as appropriate, that is allowed, except as provided by paragraph (g)(2)(v) of this section. The average value is defined as the sum of the rolling average values recorded over the previous 12 months, divided by the number of rolling averages recorded during that time. The average value must not include calibration data, startup data, shutdown data, malfunction data, and data obtained when not burning hazardous waste;

(iii) You must feed chlorine at normal feedrates or greater; and

(iv) If the combustor is equipped with carbon injection or carbon bed, normal cleaning cycle of the particulate matter control device.

(v) The Administrator may approve an alternative range to that required by paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section if you document in the confirmatory performance test plan that it may be problematic to maintain the required range during the test. In addition, when making the finding of compliance, the Administrator may consider test conditions outside of the range specified in the test plan based on a finding that you could not reasonably maintain the range specified in the test plan and considering factors including whether the time duration and level of the parameter when operations were out of the specified range were such that operations during the confirmatory test are determined to be reasonably representative of normal operations. In addition, the Administrator will consider the proximity of the emission test results to the standard.
