
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1207 What are the performance testing requirements?
######## Time extension for subsequent performance tests.

(i)After the initial comprehensive performance test, you may request up to a one-year time extension for conducting a comprehensive or confirmatory performance test to consolidate performance testing with other state or federally required emission testing, or for other reasons deemed acceptable by the Administrator. If the Administrator grants a time extension for a comprehensive performance test, the deadlines for commencing the next comprehensive and confirmatory tests are based on the date that the subject comprehensive performance test commences.

(1) You must submit in writing to the Administrator any request under this paragraph for a time extension for conducting a performance test.

(2) You must include in the request for an extension for conducting a performance test the following:

(i) A description of the reasons for requesting the time extension;

(ii) The date by which you will commence performance testing.

(3) The Administrator will notify you in writing of approval or intention to deny approval of your request for an extension for conducting a performance test within 30 calendar days after receipt of sufficient information to evaluate your request. The 30-day approval or denial period will begin after you have been notified in writing that your application is complete. The Administrator will notify you in writing whether the application contains sufficient information to make a determination within 30 calendar days after receipt of the original application and within 30 calendar days after receipt of any supplementary information that you submit.

(4) When notifying you that your application is not complete, the Administrator will specify the information needed to complete the application. The Administrator will also provide notice of opportunity for you to present, in writing, within 30 calendar days after notification of the incomplete application, additional information or arguments to the Administrator to enable further action on the application.

(5) Before denying any request for an extension for performance testing, the Administrator will notify you in writing of the Administrator's intention to issue the denial, together with:

(i) Notice of the information and findings on which the intended denial is based; and

(ii) Notice of opportunity for you to present in writing, within 15 calendar days after notification of the intended denial, additional information or arguments to the Administrator before further action on the request.

(6) The Administrator's final determination to deny any request for an extension will be in writing and will set forth specific grounds upon which the denial is based. The final determination will be made within 30 calendar days after the presentation of additional information or argument (if the application is complete), or within 30 calendar days after the final date specified for the presentation if no presentation is made.
