
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Other
####### ยง 63.1212 What are the other requirements pertaining to the NIC?
######## Information Repository specific to new combustion units.

(c)(1) Any source that files a RCRA permit application or modification request for construction of a new hazardous waste combustion unit after October 12, 2005 may be required to establish an information repository if deemed appropriate.

(2) The Administrator may assess the need, on a case-by-case basis for an information repository. When assessing the need for a repository, the Administrator shall consider the level of public interest, the presence of an existing repository, and any information available via the New Source Review and Title V permit processes. If the Administrator determines a need for a repository, then the Administrator shall notify the facility that it must establish and maintain an information repository.

(3) The information repository shall contain all documents, reports, data, and information deemed necessary by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have the discretion to limit the contents of the repository.

(4) The information repository shall be located and maintained at a site chosen by the source. If the Administrator finds the site unsuitable for the purposes and persons for which it was established, due to problems with location, hours of availability, access, or other relevant considerations, then the Administrator shall specify a more appropriate site.

(5) The Administrator shall require the source to provide a written notice about the information repository to all individuals on the source mailing list.

(6) The source shall be responsible for maintaining and updating the repository with appropriate information throughout a period specified by the Administrator. The Administrator may close the repository at his or her discretion based on the considerations in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
