
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Notification, Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### § 63.1211 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements?
######## Documentation of compliance.

(c)(1) By the compliance date, you must develop and include in the operating record a Documentation of Compliance. You are not subject to this requirement, however, if you submit a Notification of Compliance under § 63.1207(j) prior to the compliance date. Upon inclusion of the Documentation of Compliance in the operating record, hazardous waste burning incinerators, cement kilns, and lightweight aggregate kilns regulated under the interim standards of §§ 63.1203, 63.1204, and 63.1205 are no longer subject to compliance with the previously applicable Notification of Compliance.

(2) The Documentation of Compliance must identify the applicable emission standards under this subpart and the limits on the operating parameters under § 63.1209 that will ensure compliance with those emission standards.

(3) You must include a signed and dated certification in the Documentation of Compliance that:

(i) Required CEMs and CMS are installed, calibrated, and continuously operating in compliance with the requirements of this subpart; and

(ii) Based on an engineering evaluation prepared under your direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed to ensure that qualified personnel properly gathered and evaluated the information and supporting documentation, and considering at a minimum the design, operation, and maintenance characteristics of the combustor and emissions control equipment, the types, quantities, and characteristics of feedstreams, and available emissions data:

(A) You are in compliance with the emission standards of this subpart; and

(B) The limits on the operating parameters under § 63.1209 ensure compliance with the emission standards of this subpart.

(4) You must comply with the emission standards and operating parameter limits specified in the Documentation of Compliance.
