
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Notification, Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### ยง 63.1211 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements?
######## Data compression.

(d)You may submit a written request to the Administrator for approval to use data compression techniques to record data from CMS, including CEMS, on a frequency less than that required by ยง 63.1209. You must submit the request for review and approval as part of the comprehensive performance test plan.

(1) You must record a data value at least once each ten minutes.

(2) For each CEMS or operating parameter for which you request to use data compression techniques, you must recommend:

(i) A fluctuation limit that defines the maximum permissible deviation of a new data value from a previously generated value without requiring you to revert to recording each one-minute value.

(A) If you exceed a fluctuation limit, you must record each one-minute value for a period of time not less than ten minutes.

(B) If neither the fluctuation limit nor the data compression limit are exceeded during that period of time, you may reinitiate recording data values on a frequency of at least once each ten minutes; and

(ii) A data compression limit defined as the closest level to an operating parameter limit or emission standard at which reduced data recording is allowed.

(A) Within this level and the operating parameter limit or emission standard, you must record each one-minute average.

(B) The data compression limit should reflect a level at which you are unlikely to exceed the specific operating parameter limit or emission standard, considering its averaging period, with the addition of a new one-minute average.
