
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Other
####### ยง 63.1215 What are the health-based compliance alternatives for total chlorine?
######## Look-up table analysis.

(3)Look-up tables for the eligibility demonstration are provided as Tables 1 and 2 to this section.

(i) Table 1 presents annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limits for sources located in flat terrain. For purposes of this analysis, flat terrain is terrain that rises to a level not exceeding one half the stack height within a distance of 50 stack heights.

(ii) Table 2 presents annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limits for sources located in simple elevated terrain. For purposes of this analysis, simple elevated terrain is terrain that rises to a level exceeding one half the stack height, but that does not exceed the stack height, within a distance of 50 stack heights.

(iii) To determine the annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limit for a source from the look-up table, you must use the stack height and stack diameter for your hazardous waste combustors and the distance between the stack and the property boundary.

(iv) If any of these values for stack height, stack diameter, and distance to nearest property boundary do not match the exact values in the look-up table, you must use the next lowest table value.
