
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Other
####### § 63.1215 What are the health-based compliance alternatives for total chlorine?
######## Feedrate limit to ensure compliance with the annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limit.

(2)(i) For sources subject to the feedrate limit for total chlorine and chloride under § 63.1209(n)(4) to ensure compliance with the semivolatile metals standard:

(A) The feedrate limit (and averaging period) for total chlorine and chloride to ensure compliance with the annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limit is the same as required by § 63.1209(n)(4), except as provided by paragraph (g)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(B) The numerical value of the total chlorine and chloride feedrate limit (i.e., not considering the averaging period) you establish under § 63.1209(n)(4) must not exceed the value you calculate as the annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limit (lb/hr) divided by [1 - system removal efficiency], where the system removal efficiency is calculated as prescribed by paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(ii) For sources exempt from the feedrate limit for total chlorine and chloride under § 63.1209(n)(4) because they comply with § 63.1207(m)(2), the feedrate limit for total chlorine and chloride to ensure compliance with the annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate must be established as follows:

(A) You must establish an average period for the feedrate limit that does not exceed an annual rolling average;

(B) The numerical value of the total chlorine and chloride feedrate limit (i.e., not considering the averaging period) must not exceed the value you calculate as the annual average HCl-equivalent emission rate limit (lb/hr) divided by [1 - system removal efficiency], where the system removal efficiency is calculated as prescribed by paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(C) You must calculate the initial rolling average as though you had selected a 12-hour rolling average, as provided by paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section. You must calculate rolling averages thereafter as the average of the available one-minute values until enough one-minute values are available to calculate the rolling average period you select. At that time and thereafter, you update the rolling average feedrate each hour with a 60-minute average feedrate.
