
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Appendix to Subpart EEE of Part 63 - Quality Assurance Procedures for Continuous Emissions Monitors Used for Hazardous Waste Combustors

1.1 Applicability. These quality assurance requirements are used to evaluate the effectiveness of quality control (QC) and quality assurance (QA) procedures and the quality of data produced by continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS) that are used for determining compliance with the emission standards on a continuous basis as specified in the applicable regulation. The QA procedures specified by these requirements represent the minimum requirements necessary for the control and assessment of the quality of CEMS data used to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards provided under this subpart EEE of part 63. Owners and operators must meet these minimum requirements and are encouraged to develop and implement a more extensive QA program. These requirements supersede those found in part 60, Appendix F, of this chapter. Appendix F does not apply to hazardous waste-burning devices.

1.2 Principle. The QA procedures consist of two distinct and equally important functions. One function is the assessment of the quality of the CEMS data by estimating accuracy. The other function is the control and improvement of the quality of the CEMS data by implementing QC policies and corrective actions. These two functions form a control loop. When the assessment function indicates that the data quality is inadequate, the source must immediately stop burning hazardous waste. The CEM data control effort must be increased until the data quality is acceptable before hazardous waste burning can resume.

a. In order to provide uniformity in the assessment and reporting of data quality, this procedure explicitly specifies the assessment methods for response drift and accuracy. The methods are based on procedures included in the applicable performance specifications provided in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. These procedures also require the analysis of the EPA audit samples concurrent with certain reference method (RM) analyses as specified in the applicable RM's.

b. Because the control and corrective action function encompasses a variety of policies, specifications, standards, and corrective measures, this procedure treats QC requirements in general terms to allow each source owner or operator to develop a QC system that is most effective and efficient for the circumstances.
