
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Appendix to Subpart EEE of Part 63 - Quality Assurance Procedures for Continuous Emissions Monitors Used for Hazardous Waste Combustors
####### Rolling Average.

2.8The average emissions, based on some (specified) time period, calculated every minute from a one-minute average of four measurements taken at 15-second intervals.

3.1 QC Requirements. a. Each owner or operator must develop and implement a QC program. At a minimum, each QC program must include written procedures describing in detail complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for the following activities.

1. Checks for component failures, leaks, and other abnormal conditions.

2. Calibration of CEMS.

3. CD determination and adjustment of CEMS.

4. Integration of CEMS with the automatic waste feed cutoff (AWFCO) system.

5. Preventive Maintenance of CEMS (including spare parts inventory).

6. Data recording, calculations, and reporting.

7. Checks of record keeping.

8. Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods.

9. Program of corrective action for malfunctioning CEMS.

10. Operator training and certification.

11. Maintaining and ensuring current certification or naming of cylinder gasses, metal solutions, and particulate samples used for audit and accuracy tests, daily checks, and calibrations.

b. Whenever excessive inaccuracies occur for two consecutive quarters, the current written procedures must be revised or the CEMS modified or replaced to correct the deficiency causing the excessive inaccuracies. These written procedures must be kept on record and available for inspection by the enforcement agency.

3.2 QA Requirements. Each source owner or operator must develop and implement a QA plan that includes, at a minimum, the following.

1. QA responsibilities (including maintaining records, preparing reports, reviewing reports).

2. Schedules for the daily checks, periodic audits, and preventive maintenance.

3. Check lists and data sheets.

4. Preventive maintenance procedures.

5. Description of the media, format, and location of all records and reports.

6. Provisions for a review of the CEMS data at least once a year. Based on the results of the review, the owner or operator must revise or update the QA plan, if necessary.
