
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1250 Applicability.
####### Storage tank ownership determination.

(e)The owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section to determine to which PMPU a storage tank shall belong. If an owner or operator produces only pharmaceutical products, the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section are required only to determine applicability and demonstrate compliance with the pollution-prevention alternative specified in ยง 63.1252(e), or to determine new source applicability for a PMPU dedicated to manufacturing a single product as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) If a storage tank is dedicated to a single PMPU, the storage tank shall belong to that PMPU.

(2) If a storage tank is shared among process units (including at least one PMPU), then the storage tank shall belong to the process unit located on the same plant site as the storage tank that has the greatest annual volume input into or output from the storage tank (i.e., said PMPU or process unit has the predominant use of the storage tank).

(3) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage tank that is shared among process units (including at least one PMPU), then the owner or operator shall assign the storage tank to any one of the PMPU's that shares it and is also subject to this subpart.

(4) If the predominant use of a storage tank varies from year to year, then predominant use shall be determined based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding September 21, 1998 for existing affected sources. For new affected sources, predominant use will be based on the first year after initial startup. The determination of predominant use shall be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status required by ยง 63.1260(f). If the predominant use changes, the redetermination of predominant use shall be reported in the next Periodic report.

(5) If the storage tank begins receiving material from (or sending material to) another PMPU, or ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a PMPU, or if the applicability of this subpart to a storage tank has been determined according to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section and there is a significant change in the use of the storage tank that could reasonably change the predominant use, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the storage tank and report such changes to EPA in the next Periodic report.
