
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1250 Applicability.
####### Compliance dates.

(f)The compliance dates for affected sources are as follows:

(1) An owner or operator of an existing affected source must comply with the provisions of this subpart no later than October 21, 2002.

(2) An owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source must comply with the provisions of this subpart on August 29, 2000 or upon startup, whichever is later.

(3) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a new source which commences construction or reconstruction after April 2, 1997 and before September 21, 1998 shall not be required to comply with this subpart until September 21, 2001 if:

(i) The requirements of this subpart are more stringent than the requirements of this subpart in effect before August 29, 2000 and contained in the 40 CFR, part (63.1200-end), edition revised as of July 1, 2000; and

(ii) The owner or operator complies with the requirements published on April 2, 1997 (62 FR 15754) during the period until September 21, 2001.

(4) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a new source which commences construction or reconstruction after September 21, 1998 and before April 10, 2000 shall not be required to comply with this subpart until October 21, 2002 if:

(i) The requirements of this subpart are more stringent than the requirements of this subpart in effect before August 29, 2000; and

(ii) The owner or operator complies with the requirements of this subpart in effect before August 29, 2000 during the period between startup and October 21, 2002.

(5) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (f)(2) of this section, a new source which commences construction or reconstruction after April 10, 2000 and before August 29, 2000 shall not be required to comply with this subpart until August 29, 2001 if:

(i) The requirements of this subpart are more stringent than the requirements published on April 10, 2000 (65 FR 19152); and

(ii) The owner or operator complies with the requirements of this subpart in effect before August 29, 2000 during the period between startup and August 29, 2001.

(6) Pursuant to section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing the existing source up to 1 additional year to comply with section 112(d) standards.

(i) For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (f) (1) through (5) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section. The dates specified in ยง 63.6(i) for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to sources subject to this subpart.

(ii) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request after the date specified in paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section provided the need for the compliance extension arose after that date and before the otherwise applicable compliance date, and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request shall include the data described in ยง 63.6(i)(6)(i) (A), (B), (C), and (D).
