
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Hazardous Waste Combustors
###### Appendix to Subpart EEE of Part 63 - Quality Assurance Procedures for Continuous Emissions Monitors Used for Hazardous Waste Combustors
####### n,n

6.5.4 Averaging Periods for CEMS other than CO and THC. The averaging period for CEMS other than CO and THC CEMS must be calculated as a rolling average of all one-hour values over the averaging period. An hourly average is comprised of 4 measurements taken at equally spaced time intervals, or at most every 15 minutes. Fewer than 4 measurements might be available within an hour for reasons such as facility downtime or CEMS calibration. If at least two measurements (30 minutes of data) are available, an hourly average must be calculated. The-hour rolling average is calculated by averaging themost recent hourly averages.

6.6 Units of the Standards for the Purposes of Recording and Reporting Emissions. Emissions must be recorded and reported expressed after correcting for oxygen, temperature, and moisture. Emissions must be reported in metric, but may also be reported in the English system of units, at 7 percent oxygen, 20 &#xB0;C, and on a dry basis.

6.7 Rounding and Significant Figures. Emissions must be rounded to two significant figures using ASTM procedure E-29-90 or its successor. Rounding must be avoided prior to rounding for the reported value.

1. 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, "Quality Assurance Procedures: Procedure 1. Quality Assurance Requirements for Gas continuous Emission Monitoring Systems Used For Compliance Determination".
