
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1250 Applicability.
####### Compliance with other regulations for wastewater.

(5)After the compliance dates specified in this section, the owner or operator of an affected wastewater stream that is also subject to provisions in 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 may elect to determine whether this subpart or 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 contain the more stringent control requirements (e.g., design, operation, and inspection requirements for waste management units; numerical treatment standards; etc.) and the more stringent testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. Compliance with provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 that are determined to be more stringent than the requirements of this subpart constitutes compliance with this subpart. For example, provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 for treatment units that meet the conditions specified in ยง 63.1256(g)(13) constitute compliance with this subpart. In the Notification of Compliance Status report required by ยง 63.1260(f), the owner or operator shall identify the more stringent provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 with which the owner or operator will comply. The owner or operator shall also identify in the Notification of Compliance Status report required by ยง 63.1260(f) the information and procedures used to make any stringency determinations. If the owner or operator does not elect to determine the more stringent requirements, the owner or operator must comply with both the provisions of 40 CFR parts 260 through 272 and the provisions of this subpart.
