
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1252 Standards: General.
####### Closed-vent systems.

(b)The owner or operator of a closed-vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from a control device used to comply with the requirements in §§ 63.1253, 63.1254, and 63.1256 shall comply with the requirements of Table 4 to this subpart and paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. Equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, rupture disks and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.

(1) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that determines whether vent stream flow is present at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.1259(i)(6)(i). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert the vent stream away from the control device to the atmosphere; or

(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the closed position with a car seal or lock and key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the closed position and the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line. Records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.1259(i)(6)(ii).
