
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1252 Standards: General.
####### Pollution prevention alternative.

(e)Except as provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, an owner or operator may choose to meet the pollution prevention alternative requirement specified in either paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section for any PMPU or for any situation described in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, in lieu of the requirements specified in §§ 63.1253, 63.1254, 63.1255, and 63.1256. Compliance with paragraphs (e)(2) and (3) of this section shall be demonstrated through the procedures in § 63.1257(f). Any PMPU for which the owner or operator seeks to comply by using the pollution prevention alternative shall begin with the same starting material(s) and end with the same product(s). The owner or operator may not comply with the pollution prevention alternative by eliminating any steps of a process by transferring the step offsite (to another manufacturing location).

(1) The HAP that are generated in the PMPU that are not part of the production-indexed consumption factor must be controlled according to the requirements of §§ 63.1253, 63.1254, 63.1255, and 63.1256. The hydrogen halides that are generated as a result of combustion control of emissions must be controlled according to the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(2) The production-indexed HAP consumption factor (kg HAP consumed/kg produced) shall be reduced by at least 75 percent from a 3 year average baseline established no earlier than the 1987 calendar year, or for the time period from startup of the process until the present in which the PMPU was operational and data are available, whichever is the lesser time period. If a time period less than 3 years is used to set the baseline, the data must represent at least 1 year's worth of data. For any reduction in the HAP factor achieved by reducing a HAP that is also a VOC, an equivalent reduction in the VOC factor is also required. For any reduction in the HAP factor that is achieved by reducing a HAP that is not a VOC, the VOC factor may not be increased.

(3) Both requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section are met.

(i) The production-indexed HAP consumption factor (kg HAP consumed/kg produced) shall be reduced by at least 50 percent from a 3-year average baseline established no earlier than the 1987 calendar year, or for the time period from startup of the process until the present in which the PMPU was operational and data are available, whichever is less. If a time period less than 3 years is used to set the baseline, the data must represent at least 1 year's worth of data. For any reduction in the HAP factor achieved by reducing a HAP that is also a VOC, an equivalent reduction in the VOC factor is also required. For any reduction in the HAP factor that is achieved by reducing a HAP that is not a VOC, the VOC factor may not be increased.

(ii) The total PMPU HAP emissions shall be reduced by an amount, in kg/yr, that, when divided by the annual production rate, in kg/yr, and added to the reduction of the production-indexed HAP consumption factor, in kg/kg, yields a value of at least 75 percent of the average baseline HAP production-indexed consumption factor established according to paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section according to the equation provided in § 63.1257(f)(2)(ii)(A). The total PMPU VOC emissions shall be reduced by an amount calculated according to the equation provided in § 63.1257(f)(2)(ii)(B). The annual reduction in HAP and VOC air emissions must be due to the use of the following control devices:

(A) Combustion control devices such as incinerators, flares or process heaters.

(B) Control devices such as condensers and carbon adsorbers whose recovered product is destroyed or shipped offsite for destruction.

(C) Any control device that does not ultimately allow for recycling of material back to the PMPU.

(D) Any control device for which the owner or operator can demonstrate that the use of the device in controlling HAP emissions will have no effect on the production-indexed consumption factor for the PMPU.

(4) The owner or operator may comply with the requirements in either paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section for a series of processes, including situations where multiple processes are merged, subject to the following conditions:

(i) The baseline period shall be a single year beginning no earlier than the 1992 calendar year.

(ii) The term "PMPU" shall have the meaning provided in § 63.1251 except that the baseline and modified PMPU may include multiple processes (i.e., precursors, active ingredients, and final dosage form) if the owner or operator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the multiple processes were merged after the baseline period into an existing process or processes.

(iii) Nondedicated formulation and solvent recovery processes may not be merged with any other processes.
