
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1252 Standards: General.
####### Planned routine maintenance for centralized combustion control devices.

(h)The owner or operator may operate non-dedicated PMPU's during periods of planned routine maintenance for CCCD in accordance with the provisions specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) For equipment leaks and wastewater emissions that normally are controlled by the CCCD, if any, the owner or operator must continue to comply with the requirements in §§ 63.1255(b)(4)(ii) and 63.1256(h), respectively, using other control devices during the planned routine maintenance period for the CCCD.

(2) During the planned routine maintenance period, the owner or operator must route emissions from process vents with organic HAP emissions greater than 15 pounds per day (lb/day) through a closed-vent system to a condenser that meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The outlet gas temperature must be less than -50 &#xB0;C (-58 &#xB0;F) when the emission stream contains organic HAP with a partial pressure greater than 20 kPa (2.9 psia).

(ii) The outlet gas temperature must be less than -5 &#xB0;C (23 &#xB0;F) when the emission stream contains organic HAP with a partial pressure less than or equal to 20 kPa (2.9 psia).

(iii) The HAP partial pressures in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section must be determined at 25 &#xB0;C.

(3) The owner or operator must route HCl emissions from process vents with HCl emissions greater than 15 lb/day through a closed-vent system to a caustic scrubber, and the pH of the scrubber effluent must be maintained at or above 9.

(4) For the purposes of the emission calculations required in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section, the term "process vent" shall mean each vent from a unit operation. The emission calculation shall not be performed on the aggregated emission stream from multiple unit operations that are manifolded together into a common header. Once an affected process vent has been controlled in accordance with this section, it is no longer subject to the requirements of this section or § 63.1254 during the routine maintenance period.

(5) The total period of planned routine maintenance, during which non-dedicated PMPU's that are normally controlled by the CCCD continue to operate, and process vent emissions are controlled as specified in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section, must not exceed 240 hours in any 365-day period.

(6) While being controlled as specified in paragraphs (h)(2) and (3) of this section, the process vents may not be used in emissions averaging.
