
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1252 Standards: General.
####### Emissions averaging provisions.

(d)Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, owners or operators of storage tanks or processes subject to the provisions of §§ 63.1253 and 63.1254 may choose to comply by using emissions averaging requirements specified in § 63.1257(g) or (h) for any storage tank or process.

(1) A State may prohibit averaging of HAP emissions and require the owner or operator of an existing source to comply with the provisions in §§ 63.1253 and 63.1254.

(2) Only emission sources subject to the requirements of § 63.1253(b)(1) or (c)(1)(i) or § 63.1254(a)(1)(i) may be included in any averaging group.

(3) Processes which have been permanently shutdown or storage tanks permanently taken out of HAP service may not be included in any averaging group.

(4) Processes and storage tanks already controlled on or before November 15, 1990 may not be included in an emissions averaging group, except where the level of control is increased after November 15, 1990. In these cases, the uncontrolled emissions shall be the controlled emissions as calculated on November 15, 1990 for the purpose of determining the uncontrolled emissions as specified in § 63.1257(g) and (h).

(5) Emission points controlled to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart may not be credited in an emission averaging group, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990 above what is required by the other State or Federal rule. Only the control above what is required by the other State or Federal rule will be credited. However, if an emission point has been used to generate emissions averaging credit in an approved emissions average, and the point is subsequently made subject to a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, the point can continue to generate emissions averaging credit for the purpose of complying with the previously approved average.

(6) Not more than 20 processes subject to § 63.1254(a)(1)(i), and 20 storage tanks subject to § 63.1253(b)(1) or (c)(1)(i) at an affected source may be included in an emissions averaging group.

(7) Compliance with the emission standards in § 63.1253 shall be satisfied when the annual percent reduction efficiency is greater than or equal to 90 percent for those tanks meeting the criteria of § 63.1253(a)(1) and 95 percent for those tanks meeting the criteria of § 63.1253(a)(2), as demonstrated using the test methods and compliance procedures specified in § 63.1257(g).

(8) Compliance with the emission standards in § 63.1254(a)(1)(i) shall be satisfied when the annual percent reduction efficiency is greater than or equal to 93 percent, as demonstrated using the test methods and compliance procedures specified in § 63.1257(h).
