
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1253 Standards: Storage tanks.
####### Vapor balancing alternative.

(f)As an alternative to the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the owner or operator of an existing or new affected source may implement vapor balancing in accordance with paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) The vapor balancing system must be designed and operated to route organic HAP vapors displaced from loading of the storage tank to the railcar or tank truck from which the storage tank is filled.

(2) Tank trucks and railcars must have a current certification in accordance with the U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) pressure test requirements of 49 CFR part 180 for tank trucks and 49 CFR 173.31 for railcars.

(3) Hazardous air pollutants must only be unloaded from tank trucks or railcars when vapor collection systems are connected to the storage tank's vapor collection system.

(4) No pressure relief device on the storage tank, or on the railcar, or tank truck shall open during loading or as a result of diurnal temperature changes (breathing losses).

(5) Pressure relief devices on affected storage tanks must be set to no less than 2.5 psig at all times to prevent breathing losses. The owner or operator shall record the setting as specified in § 63.1259(b)(12) and comply with the requirements for each pressure relief valve in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) The pressure relief valve shall be monitored quarterly using the method described in § 63.180(b).

(ii) An instrument reading of 500 ppmv or greater defines a leak.

(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 days after it is detected, and the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.1255(g)(4)(i) through (iv).

(6) Railcars or tank trucks that deliver HAP to an affected storage tank must be reloaded or cleaned at a facility that utilizes one of the control techniques in paragraph (f)(6)(i) through (ii) of this section:

(i) The railcar or tank truck must be connected to a closed-vent system with a control device that reduces inlet emissions of HAP by 90 percent by weight or greater; or

(ii) A vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect organic HAP vapor displaced from the tank truck or railcar during reloading must be used to route the collected HAP vapor to the storage tank from which the liquid being transferred originated.

(7) The owner or operator of the facility where the railcar or tank truck is reloaded or cleaned must comply with the requirements in paragraph (f)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) Submit to the owner or operator of the affected storage tank and to the Administrator a written certification that the reloading or cleaning facility will meet the requirements of this section. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the owner or operator of the affected storage tank giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (b)(7).

(ii) If complying with paragraph (f)(6)(i) of this section, demonstrate initial compliance in accordance with § 63.1257(c), demonstrate continuous compliance in accordance with § 63.1258, keep records as specified in § 63.1259, and prepare reports as specified in § 63.1260.

(iii) If complying with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section, keep records of:

(A) The equipment to be used and the procedures to be followed when reloading the railcar or tank truck and displacing vapors to the storage tank from which the liquid originates, and

(B) Each time the vapor balancing system is used to comply with paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section.
