
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1254 Standards: Process vents.
####### Planned routine maintenance.

(4)For each PMPU that is controlled with a CCCD, the owner or operator must comply with the provisions specified in either paragraph (a)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section during periods of planned routine maintenance of the CCCD. The owner or operator is not required to comply with the same provision for all of the PMPU's controlled by the CCCD.

(i) Shutdown the affected process.

(ii) Comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section by using other means.

(iii) For a non-dedicated PMPU, implement the procedures described in paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section for those process vents that are normally controlled by the CCCD. This option is not available for process vents from dedicated PMPU's.

(A) If the owner or operator uses a CCCD to comply with the 93 percent reduction requirement in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, the outlet concentration limit in paragraph (a)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the alternative standard as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(D) and (c) of this section, or the annual mass limit in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, implement the provisions in § 63.1252(h) during planned routine maintenance of the CCCD.

(B) If the owner or operator reduces HAP emissions from process vents by using a CCCD that is also a control device specified in § 63.1257(a)(4), implement the provisions in § 63.1252(h) during planned routine maintenance of the CCCD.

(C) If the owner or operator uses a CCCD to reduce emissions from a process vent subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, implement the planned routine maintenance provisions in § 63.1252(h) for that vent only if the reason the planned routine maintenance is needed, and the reason it cannot be performed at a time when the vent subject to paragraph (a)(3) of this section is not operating, has been described in the Notification of Compliance Status Report or a periodic report submitted before the planned routine maintenance event.
