
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### References.

(b)(1) The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall comply with the provisions of subpart H of this part, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this section. The term "process unit" as used in subpart H of this part shall be considered to be defined the same as "group of processes" for sources subject to this subpart GGG. The term "fuel gas system," as used in subpart H of this part, shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart GGG.

(2) Sections 63.160, 63.161, 63.162, 63.163, 63.167, 63.168, 63.170, 63.173, 63.175, 63.176, 63.181, and 63.182 shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart GGG. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) Sections 63.160 and 63.162 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (a) of this section;

(ii) Section 63.161 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1251;

(iii) Sections 63.163 and 63.173 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (c) of this section;

(iv) Section 63.167 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (d) of this section;

(v) Section 63.168 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (e) of this section;

(vi) Section 63.170 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1254;

(vii) Section 63.181 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (g) of this section; and

(viii) Section 63.182 shall not apply; instead, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (h) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.164, 63.165, 63.166, 63.169, 63.177, and 63.179 in their entirety, except that when these sections reference other sections of subpart H of this part, the references shall mean the sections specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section. Section 63.164 applies to compressors. Section 63.165 applies to pressure relief devices in gas/vapor service. Section 63.166 applies to sampling connection systems. Section 63.169 applies to pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service; instrumentation systems; and pressure relief devices in liquid service. Section 63.177 applies to general alternative means of emission limitation. Section 63.179 applies to alternative means of emission limitation for enclosed-vented process units.

(4) The owner or operator shall comply with §§ 63.171, 63.172, 63.174, 63.178, and 63.180, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Section 63.171 shall apply, except § 63.171(a) shall not apply. Instead, delay of repair of equipment for which leaks have been detected is allowed if one of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (B) exists:

(A) The repair is technically infeasible without a process shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next scheduled process shutdown.

(B) The owner or operator determines that repair personnel would be exposed to an immediate danger if attempting to repair without a process shutdown. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next scheduled process shutdown.

(ii) Section 63.172 shall apply for closed-vent systems used to comply with this section, and for control devices used to comply with this section only, except:

(A) Section 63.172(k) and (l) shall not apply. The owner or operator shall instead comply with paragraph (f) of this section.

(B) Owners or operators may, instead of complying with the provisions of § 63.172(f), design a closed-vent system to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gage or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the associated control device is operating.

(C) The requirements apply at all times, except as specified in § 63.1250(g). The owner or operator may not comply with the planned routine maintenance provisions in § 63.1252(h).

(iii) Section 63.174 shall apply except:

(A) Section 63.174(f), (g), and (h) shall not apply. Instead of § 63.174(f), (g), and (h), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (f) of this section. Section 63.174(b)(3) shall not apply. Instead of § 63.174(b)(3), the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(B) through (F) of this section.

(B) If the percent leaking connectors in a group of processes was greater than or equal to 0.5 percent during the initial monitoring period, monitoring shall be performed once per year until the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent.

(C) If the percent leaking connectors in the group of processes was less than 0.5 percent, but equal to or greater than 0.25 percent, during the initial or last required monitoring period, the owner or operator may elect to monitor once every 4 years. An owner or operator may comply with the requirements of this paragraph by monitoring at least 40 percent of the connectors in the first 2 years and the remainder of the connectors within the next 2 years. The percent leaking connectors will be calculated for the total of all required monitoring performed during the 4-year period.

(D) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, if leaking connectors comprise at least 0.5 percent but less than 1.0 percent of the connectors during the last monitoring period, the owner or operator shall monitor at least once every 2 years for the next monitoring period. At the end of that 2-year monitoring period, if the percent leaking connectors is greater than or equal to 0.5 percent, the owner or operator shall monitor once per year until the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent. If, at the end of a monitoring period, the percent leaking connectors is less than 0.5 percent, the owner or operator shall monitor in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C) or (F) of this section, as appropriate.

(E) If an owner or operator determines that 1 percent or greater of the connectors in a group of processes are leaking, the owner or operator shall monitor the connectors once per year. The owner or operator may elect to use the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C), (D), or (F) of this section, as appropriate, after a monitoring period in which less than 1 percent of the connectors are determined to be leaking.

(F) The owner or operator may elect to perform monitoring once every 8 years if the percent leaking connectors in the group of processes was less than 0.25 percent during the initial or last required monitoring period. An owner or operator shall monitor at least 50 percent of the connectors in the first 4 years and the remainder of the connectors within the next 4 years. If the percent leaking connectors in the first 4 years is equal to or greater than 0.35 percent, the monitoring program shall revert at that time to the appropriate monitoring frequency specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iii)(C), (D), or (E) of this section.

(iv) Section 63.178 shall apply except:

(A) Section 63.178(b), requirements for pressure testing, may be applied to all processes (not just batch processes) and to supply lines between storage and processing areas.

(B) For pumps, the phrase "at the frequencies specified in Table 1 of this subpart" in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii) shall mean "quarterly" for the purposes of this subpart.

(v) Section 63.180 shall apply except § 63.180(b)(4)(ii)(A) through (C) shall not apply. Instead, calibration gases shall be a mixture of methane and air at a concentration of approximately, but less than, 10,000 parts per million methane for agitators; 2,000 parts per million for pumps; and 500 parts per million for all other equipment, except as provided in § 63.180(b)(4)(iii).

(vi) When §§ 63.171, 63.172, 63.174, 63.178, and 63.180 reference other sections in subpart H of this part, the references shall mean those sections specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (b)(4)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.
