
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### Consistency with other regulations.

(2)After the compliance date for a process, equipment subject to both this section and either of the following will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart:

(i) 40 CFR part 60.

(ii) 40 CFR part 61.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) The provisions in ยง 63.1(a)(3) of subpart A of this part do not alter the provisions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(5) Lines and equipment not containing process fluids are not subject to the provisions of this section. Utilities, and other nonprocess lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not considered to be part of a process.

(6) The provisions of this section do not apply to bench-scale processes, regardless of whether the processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(7) Equipment to which this section applies shall be identified such that it can be distinguished readily from equipment that is not subject to this section. Identification of the equipment does not require physical tagging of the equipment. For example, the equipment may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by designation of process boundaries by some form of weatherproof identification. If changes are made to the affected source subject to the leak detection requirements, equipment identification for each type of component shall be updated, if needed, within 90 calendar days or by the next Periodic Report following the end of the monitoring period for that component, whichever is later.

(8) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of this section.

(9) Equipment that is in organic HAP service, but is in such service less than 300 hours per calendar year, is excluded from the requirements of this section if it is identified as required in paragraph (g)(9) of this section.

(10) When each leak is detected by visual, audible, or olfactory means, or by monitoring as described in ยง 63.180(b) or (c), the following requirements apply:

(i) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.

(ii) The identification on a valve in light liquid or gas/vapor service may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, and no leak has been detected during the follow-up monitoring.

(iii) The identification on equipment, except on a valve in light liquid or gas/vapor service, may be removed after it has been repaired.

(11) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section, all terms in this subpart that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual) refer to the standard calendar periods unless specified otherwise in the section or paragraph that imposes the requirement.

(i) If the initial compliance date does not coincide with the beginning of the standard calendar period, an owner or operator may elect to utilize a period beginning on the compliance date, or may elect to comply in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(11)(ii) or (iii) of this section.

(ii) Time periods specified in this subpart for completion of required tasks may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part. For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(11)(i) or (ii) of this section, where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date does not coincide with the beginning of the calendar period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraph (a)(11)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the initial compliance date occurs if there remain at least 3 days for tasks that must be performed weekly, at least 2 weeks for tasks that must be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that must be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that must be performed annually; or

(B) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance date occurs.

(iv) In all instances where a provision of this subpart requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during each period, provided the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period.

(12) In all cases where the provisions of this subpart require an owner or operator to repair leaks by a specified time after the leak is detected, it is a violation of this section to fail to take action to repair the leaks within the specified time. If action is taken to repair the leaks within the specified time, failure of that action to successfully repair the leak is not a violation of this section. However, if the repairs are unsuccessful, a leak is detected and the owner or operator shall take further action as required by applicable provisions of this section.
