
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### Exemptions.

(5)Each pump or agitator equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4)(iii) of this section, provided the following requirements are met:

(i) Each dual mechanical seal system is:

(A) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times greater than the pump/agitator stuffing box pressure; or

(B) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is connected by a closed-vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section; or

(C) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.

(ii) The barrier fluid is not in light liquid service.

(iii) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(iv) Each pump/agitator is checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump/agitator seal. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump or agitator seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in either paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section prior to the next required inspection.

(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump or agitator using the method specified in ยง 63.180(b) to determine if there is a leak of organic HAP in the barrier fluid. If the instrument reading indicates a leak, as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, a leak is detected.

(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping.

(v) Each sensor as described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section is observed daily or is equipped with an alarm unless the pump is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.

(vi)(A) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, criteria applicable to the presence and frequency of drips and to the sensor that indicate failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(B) If indications of liquids dripping from the pump/agitator seal exceed the criteria established in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, or if, based on the criteria established in paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section, the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, a leak is detected.

(vii) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (c)(5)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section, the leak must be repaired as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(6) Any pump/agitator that is designed with no externally actuated shaft penetrating the pump/agitator housing is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(7) Any pump/agitator equipped with a closed-vent system capable of capturing and transporting any leakage from the seal or seals back to the process or to a control device that complies with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) through (5) of this section.

(8) Any pump/agitator that is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site is exempt from the weekly visual inspection requirement of paragraphs (c)(2)(iii) and (c)(5)(iv) of this section, and the daily requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(v) of this section, provided that each pump/agitator is visually inspected as often as practicable and at least monthly.

(9) If more than 90 percent of the pumps in a group of processes meet the criteria in either paragraph (c)(5) or (6) of this section, the group of processes is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (c)(4) of this section.
