
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### Calculation of percent leakers.

(5)For a group of processes to which this subpart applies, an owner or operator may choose to subdivide the valves in the applicable group of processes and apply the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section to each subgroup. If the owner or operator elects to subdivide the valves in the applicable group of processes, then the provisions of paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (e)(5)(viii) of this section apply.

(i) The overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes must be less than 2 percent leaking valves, as detected according to paragraphs (e)(3) (i) and (ii) of this section and as calculated according to paragraphs (e)(6) (ii) and (iii) of this section.

(ii) The initial assignment or subsequent reassignment of valves to subgroups shall be governed by the provisions of paragraphs (e)(5)(ii) (A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall determine which valves are assigned to each subgroup. Valves with less than 1 year of monitoring data or valves not monitored within the last 12 months must be placed initially into the most frequently monitored subgroup until at least 1 year of monitoring data has been obtained.

(B) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a less frequently monitored subgroup to a more frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned were monitored during the most recent monitoring period for the less frequently monitored subgroup. The monitoring results must be included with the less frequently monitored subgroup's monitoring event and associated next percent leaking valves calculation for that group.

(C) Any valve or group of valves can be reassigned from a more frequently monitored subgroup to a less frequently monitored subgroup provided that the valves to be reassigned have not leaked for the period of the less frequently monitored subgroup (e.g., for the last 12 months, if the valve or group of valves is to be reassigned to a subgroup being monitored annually). Nonrepairable valves may not be reassigned to a less frequently monitored subgroup.

(iii) The owner or operator shall determine every 6 months if the overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes is less than 2 percent leaking valves and so indicate the performance in the next periodic report. If the overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes is 2 percent leaking valves or greater, the owner or operator shall revert to the program required in paragraphs (e)(2) through (e)(4) of this section. The overall performance of total valves in the applicable group of processes shall be calculated as a weighted average of the percent leaking valves of each subgroup according to the following Equation 4:
