
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### Equipment that is difficult to monitor or difficult to inspect.

(3)(i) A valve, agitator, or pump may be designated as difficult to monitor if the owner or operator determines that the valve, agitator, or pump cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface, or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in organic HAP service.

(ii) Any part of a closed-vent system may be designated as difficult to inspect if the owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface, or it is not accessible in a safe manner when it is in organic HAP service.

(iii) At an existing source, any valve, agitator or pump within a group of processes that meets the criteria of paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section may be designated as difficult to monitor, and any parts of a closed-vent system that meet the requirements of paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section may be designated as difficult to inspect. At a new affected source, an owner or operator may designate no more than 3 percent of valves as difficult to monitor.

(iv) The owner or operator of valves, agitators, or pumps designated as difficult to monitor must have a written plan that requires monitoring of the equipment at least once per calendar year or on the periodic monitoring schedule otherwise applicable to the group of processes in which the equipment is located, whichever is less frequent. For any part of a closed-vent system designated as difficult to inspect, the owner or operator must have a written plan that requires inspection of the closed-vent system at least once every 5 years.
