
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### Repair provisions.

(7)(i) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(i)) of this section.

(ii) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after each leak is detected.

(iii) When a leak is repaired, the valve shall be monitored at least once within the first 3 months after its repair. Days that the valve is not in organic HAP service shall not be considered part of this 3 month period. The monitoring required by this paragraph is in addition to the monitoring required to satisfy the definitions of "repaired" and "first attempt at repair."

(A) The monitoring shall be conducted as specified in ยง 63.180(b) and (c) as appropriate to determine whether the valve has resumed leaking.

(B) Periodic monitoring required by paragraphs (e)(2) through (4) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, if the timing of the monitoring period coincides with the time specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section. Alternatively, other monitoring may be performed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, regardless of whether the timing of the monitoring period for periodic monitoring coincides with the time specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section.
