
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### General recordkeeping.

(2)Except as provided in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section and in paragraph (a)(9) of this section, the following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in this section shall be recorded:

(i)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except connectors that are subject to paragraph (f)(4) of this section) subject to the requirements of this section. Except for equipment subject to the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii) through (viii) of this section, equipment need not be individually identified if, for a particular type of equipment, all items of that equipment in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this section are identified as a group, and the number of subject items of equipment is indicated. The list for each type of equipment shall be completed no later than the completion of the initial survey required for that component. The list of identification numbers shall be updated, if needed, to incorporate equipment changes identified during the course of each monitoring period within 90 calendar days, or by the next Periodic Report, following the end of the monitoring period for the type of equipment component monitored, whichever is later.

(B) A schedule for monitoring connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.174(a) and valves subject to the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(C) Physical tagging of the equipment to indicate that it is in organic HAP service is not required. Equipment subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.

(ii)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, under the provisions of paragraph (c)(7) of this section, § 63.164(h), or § 63.165(c).

(B) A list of identification numbers for compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.164(i).

(iii)(A) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in § 63.165(a).

(B) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, under the provisions of § 63.165(d).

(iv) Identification of instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of this section. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.

(v) The following information shall be recorded for each dual mechanical seal system:

(A) Design criteria required by paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section and § 63.164(e)(2), and an explanation of the design criteria; and

(B) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.

(vi) A list of equipment designated as unsafe to monitor/inspect or difficult to monitor/inspect under paragraph (f) of this section and a copy of the plan for monitoring or inspecting this equipment.

(vii) A list of connectors removed from and added to the process, as described in § 63.174(i)(1), and documentation of the integrity of the weld for any removed connectors, as required in § 63.174(j). This is not required unless the net credits for removed connectors is expected to be used.

(viii) For equipment that the owner or operator elects to monitor as provided under § 63.178(c), a list of equipment added to batch product processes since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii). This list must be completed for each type of equipment within 90 calendar days, or by the next Periodic Report, following the end of the monitoring period for the type of equipment monitored, whichever is later. Also, if the owner or operator elects to adjust monitoring frequency by the time in use, as provided in § 63.178(c)(3)(iii), records demonstrating the proportion of the time during the calendar year the equipment is in use in a manner subject to the provisions of this section are required. Examples of suitable documentation are records of time in use for individual pieces of equipment or average time in use for the process unit.
