
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Designate wastewater as affected wastewater.

(ii)For existing sources, the owner or operator may elect to designate wastewater streams as meeting the criteria of either paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A),(B), or (C) of this section. For new sources, the owner or operator may elect to designate wastewater streams meeting the criterion in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(D) or for wastewater known to contain no soluble HAP, as meeting the criterion in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) of this section. For designated wastewater the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section shall be followed, except as specified in paragraphs (g)(8)(i), (g)(9)(i), and (g)(10) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to determine the annual average concentration or load for each designated wastewater stream for the purposes of this section.

(A) From the POD for the wastewater stream that is designated as an affected wastewater stream to the location where the owner or operator elects to designate such wastewater stream as an affected wastewater stream, the owner or operator shall comply with all applicable emission suppression requirements specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(B) From the location where the owner or operator designates a wastewater stream as an affected wastewater stream, such wastewater stream shall be managed in accordance with all applicable emission suppression requirements specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section and with the treatment requirements in paragraph (g) of this section.
