
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Determine characteristics of a wastewater stream.

(i)At new and existing sources, a wastewater stream is an affected wastewater stream if the annual average concentration and annual load exceed any of the criteria specified in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. At new sources, a wastewater stream is subject to additional control requirements if the annual average concentration and annual load exceed the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(D) of this section. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of ยง 63.1257(e)(1) to determine the annual average concentrations and annual load of partially soluble and soluble HAP compounds.

(A) The wastewater stream contains partially soluble HAP compounds at an annual average concentration greater than 1,300 ppmw, and the total soluble and partially soluble HAP load in all wastewater from the PMPU exceeds 0.25 Mg/yr.

(B) The wastewater stream contains partially soluble and/or soluble HAP compounds at an annual average concentration greater than 5,200 ppmw, and the total soluble and partially soluble HAP load in all wastewater from the PMPU exceeds 0.25 Mg/yr.

(C) The wastewater stream contains partially soluble and/or soluble HAP at an annual average concentration of greater than 10,000 ppmw, and the total partially soluble and/or soluble HAP load in all wastewater from the affected source is greater than 1 Mg/yr.

(D) The wastewater stream contains soluble HAP compounds at an annual average concentration greater than 110,000 ppmw, and the total soluble and partially soluble HAP load in all wastewater from the PMPU exceeds 1 Mg/yr.
