
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1255 Standards: Equipment leaks.
####### Notification of compliance status report.

(2)Each owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status Report described in ยง 63.1260(f).

(i) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section for each process subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(A) Process group identification.

(B) Number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) in organic HAP service, excluding equipment in vacuum service.

(C) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, "monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(ii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iv) of this section and ยง 63.178(b).

(A) Products or product codes subject to the provisions of this section, and

(B) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this section.

(iii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements in ยง 63.179.

(A) Process identification.

(B) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

(iv) Section 63.9(j) shall not apply to the Notification of Compliance Status report described in this paragraph (h)(2).
