
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### 4

() Comply with paragraphs (g)(11)(i), (ii), and (h) of this section provided that the owner or operator of the affected source demonstrates that less than 5 percent of the total soluble HAP is emitted from waste management units up to the activated sludge unit.

(iii) The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the EPA and the owner or operator giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in this paragraph. Upon expiration of the notice period, the owner or operator may not transfer the wastewater stream or residual to the treatment operation.

(iv) By providing this written certification to the EPA, the certifying entity accepts responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section with respect to any shipment of wastewater or residual covered by the written certification. Failure to abide by any of those provisions with respect to such shipments may result in enforcement action by the EPA against the certifying entity in accordance with the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by owners or operators of sources.

(v) Written certifications and revocation statements, to the EPA from the transferees of wastewater or residuals shall be signed by the responsible official of the certifying entity, provide the name and address of the certifying entity, and be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in ยง 63.13. Such written certifications are not transferable by the treater.
