
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Wastewater tanks.

(b)For each wastewater tank that receives, manages, or treats affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section as specified in Table 6 of this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator shall operate and maintain a fixed roof except when the contents of the wastewater tank are heated, treated by means of an exothermic reaction, or sparged, during which time the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. For the purposes of this paragraph, the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section are satisfied by operating and maintaining a fixed roof if the owner or operator demonstrates that the total soluble and partially soluble HAP emissions from the wastewater tank are no more than 5 percent higher than the emissions would be if the contents of the wastewater tank were not heated, treated by an exothermic reaction, or sparged.

(2) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3) through (9) of this section and shall operate and maintain one of the emission control techniques listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) A fixed roof and a closed-vent system that routes the organic HAP vapors vented from the wastewater tank to a control device; or

(ii) A fixed roof and an internal floating roof that meets the requirements specified in § 63.119(b), with the differences noted in § 63.1257(c)(3)(i) through (iii) for the purposes of this subpart; or

(iii) An external floating roof that meets the requirements specified in §§ 63.119(c), 63.120(b)(5), and 63.120(b)(6), with the differences noted in § 63.1257(c)(3)(i) through (v) for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the fixed roof shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, the control device shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, and the closed-vent system shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) The fixed roof shall meet the following requirements:

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the fixed roof and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.1258(h).

(B) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed position (e.g., covered by a lid) at all times that the wastewater tank contains affected wastewater or residual removed from affected wastewater except when it is necessary to use the opening for wastewater sampling, removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.

(ii) The control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section, the closed-vent system shall be inspected in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1258(h).

(iv) For any fixed roof tank and closed-vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.1258(h).

(4) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the floating roof shall be inspected according to the procedures specified in § 63.120(a)(2) and (3), with the differences noted in § 63.1257(c)(3)(iv) for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, if the owner or operator elects to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, seal gaps shall be measured according to the procedures specified in § 63.120(b)(2)(i) through (b)(4) and the wastewater tank shall be inspected to determine compliance with § 63.120(b)(5) and (6) according to the schedule specified in § 63.120(b)(1)(i) through (iii).

(6) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the seal gap measurements specified in § 63.120(b)(2)(i) through (b)(4) or to inspect the wastewater tank to determine compliance with § 63.120(b)(5) and (6) because the floating roof appears to be structurally unsound and poses an imminent or potential danger to inspecting personnel, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall measure the seal gaps or inspect the wastewater tank within 30 calendar days of the determination that the floating roof is unsafe.

(ii) The owner or operator shall empty and remove the wastewater tank from service within 45 calendar days of determining that the roof is unsafe. If the wastewater tank cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include an explanation of why it was unsafe to perform the inspection or seal gap measurement, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the wastewater tank will be emptied as soon as possible.

(7) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, each wastewater tank shall be inspected initially, and semiannually thereafter, for improper work practices in accordance with § 63.1258(g). For wastewater tanks, improper work practice includes, but is not limited to, leaving open any access door or other opening when such door or opening is not in use.

(8) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, each wastewater tank shall be inspected for control equipment failures as defined in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section according to the schedule in paragraphs (b)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section in accordance with § 63.1258(g).

(i) Control equipment failures for wastewater tanks include, but are not limited to, the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i)(A) through (I) of this section.

(A) The floating roof is not resting on either the surface of the liquid or on the leg supports.

(B) There is stored liquid on the floating roof.

(C) A rim seal is detached from the floating roof.

(D) There are holes, tears, cracks or gaps in the rim seal or seal fabric of the floating roof.

(E) There are visible gaps between the seal of an internal floating roof and the wall of the wastewater tank.

(F) There are gaps between the metallic shoe seal or the liquid mounted primary seal of an external floating roof and the wall of the wastewater tank that exceed 212 square centimeters per meter of tank diameter or the width of any portion of any gap between the primary seal and the tank wall exceeds 3.81 centimeters.

(G) There are gaps between the secondary seal of an external floating roof and the wall of the wastewater tank that exceed 21.2 square centimeters per meter of tank diameter or the width of any portion of any gap between the secondary seal and the tank wall exceeds 1.27 centimeters.

(H) Where a metallic shoe seal is used on an external floating roof, one end of the metallic shoe does not extend into the stored liquid or one end of the metallic shoe does not extend a minimum vertical distance of 61 centimeters above the surface of the stored liquid.

(I) A gasket, joint, lid, cover, or door has a crack or gap, or is broken.

(ii) The owner or operator shall inspect for the control equipment failures in paragraphs (b)(8)(i)(A) through (H) according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (b)(4) and (5) of this section.

(iii) The owner or operator shall inspect for the control equipment failures in paragraph (b)(8)(i)(I) of this section initially, and semiannually thereafter.

(9) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, when an improper work practice or a control equipment failure is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification and repair shall be completed within 45 calendar days after identification. If a failure that is detected during inspections required by this section cannot be repaired within 45 calendar days and if the tank cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each. Documentation of a decision to utilize an extension shall include a description of the failure, shall document that alternate storage capacity is unavailable, and shall specify a schedule of actions that will ensure that the control equipment will be repaired or the tank will be emptied as soon as practical.

(10) The emission limits specified in § 63.1256 (b)(2) and (h) for control devices used to control emissions from wastewater tanks do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance of the control device(s) of no more than 240 hours in any 365-day period. The owner or operator may submit an application to the Administrator requesting an extension of this time limit to a total of 360 hours in any 365-day period. The application must explain why the extension is needed, it must specify that no affected wastewater will be added to the tank between the time the 240-hour limit is exceeded and the control device is again operational, and it must be submitted at least 60 days before the 240-hour limit will be exceeded. Wastewater tanks shall not be sparged with air or other gases without an operational control device.
