
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Surface impoundments.

(c)For each surface impoundment that receives, manages, or treats affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (2), and (3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall operate and maintain on each surface impoundment either a cover (e.g., air-supported structure or rigid cover) and a closed-vent system that routes the organic hazardous air pollutants vapors vented from the surface impoundment to a control device in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (iii), (iv), and (v) of this section, or a floating flexible membrane cover as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) The cover and all openings shall meet the following requirements:

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(v) of this section, the cover and all openings (e.g., access hatches, sampling ports, and gauge wells) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in ยง 63.1258(h).

(B) Each opening shall be maintained in a closed position (e.g., covered by a lid) at all times that affected wastewater or residual removed from affected wastewater is in the surface impoundment except when it is necessary to use the opening for sampling, removal, or for equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.

(C) The cover shall be used at all times that affected wastewater or residual removed from affected wastewater is in the surface impoundment except during removal of treatment residuals in accordance with 40 CFR 268.4 or closure of the surface impoundment in accordance with 40 CFR 264.228.

(ii) Floating flexible membrane covers shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) The floating flexible cover shall be designed to float on the liquid surface during normal operations, and to form a continuous barrier over the entire surface area of the liquid.

(B) The cover shall be fabricated from a synthetic membrane material that is either:
