
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Filling of large containers.

(2)Pumping affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater into a container with a capacity greater than or equal to 0.42 mshall be conducted in accordance with the conditions in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Comply with any one of the procedures specified in paragraph (d)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) Use a submerged fill pipe. The submerged fill pipe outlet shall extend to no more than 6 inches or within two fill pipe diameters of the bottom of the container while the container is being filled.

(B) Locate the container within an enclosure with a closed-vent system that routes the organic HAP vapors vented from the container to a control device.

(C) Use a closed-vent system to vent the displaced organic vapors vented from the container to a control device or back to the equipment from which the wastewater is transferred.

(ii) The cover shall remain in place and all openings shall be maintained in a closed position except for those openings required for the submerged fill pipe and for venting of the container to prevent physical damage or permanent deformation of the container or cover.

(3) During treatment of affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater, including aeration, thermal or other treatment, in a container, whenever it is necessary for the container to be open, the container shall be located within an enclosure with a closed-vent system that routes the organic HAP vapors vented from the container to a control device.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, the enclosure and all openings (e.g., doors, hatches) shall be maintained in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.1258(h).

(ii) The control device shall be designed, operated, and inspected in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, the closed-vent system shall be inspected in accordance with § 63.1258(h).

(iv) For any enclosure and closed-vent system that is operated and maintained under negative pressure, the owner or operator is not required to comply with the requirements specified in § 63.1258(h).

(4) Each container shall be inspected initially, and semiannually thereafter, for improper work practices and control equipment failures in accordance with § 63.1258(g).

(i) For containers, improper work practice includes, but is not limited to, leaving open any access hatch or other opening when such hatch or opening is not in use.

(ii) For containers, control equipment failure includes, but is not limited to, any time a cover or door has a gap or crack, or is broken.

(5) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, when an improper work practice or a control equipment failure is identified, first efforts at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after identification and repair shall be completed within 15 calendar days after identification.
