
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Containers.

(d)For each container that receives, manages, or treats affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall operate and maintain a cover on each container used to handle, transfer, or store affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater in accordance with the following requirements:

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, if the capacity of the container is greater than 0.42 m, the cover and all openings (e.g., bungs, hatches, sampling points, and pressure relief valves) shall be controlled in accordance with the requirements of either paragraph (d)(1)(i)(A) or (d)(1)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) The requirements specified in ยง 63.1258(h); or

(B) The requirements of subpart PP of this part for containers using level 2 controls that meet the definitions in ยง 63.923(b)(1) or (2).

(ii) If the capacity of the container is less than or equal to 0.42 m, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) The container must meet existing Department of Transportation specifications and testing requirements under 49 CFR part 178; or

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(3)(iv) of this section, the cover and all openings shall be maintained without leaks as specified in ยง 63.1258(h).

(iii) The cover and all openings shall be maintained in a closed position (e.g., covered by a lid) at all times that affected wastewater or a residual removed from affected wastewater is in the container except when it is necessary to use the opening for filling, removal, inspection, sampling, or pressure relief events related to safety considerations.
