
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Compliance across the combination of all treatment units or control devices in series.

(i)(A) For combinations of treatment processes, the wastewater stream shall be conveyed by hard-piping between the treatment processes. For combinations of control devices, the vented gas stream shall be conveyed by hard-piping between the control devices.

(B) For combinations of treatment processes, each treatment process shall meet the applicable requirements of paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(C) The owner or operator shall identify, and keep a record of, the combination of treatment processes or of control devices, including identification of the first and last treatment process or control device. The owner or operator shall include this information as part of the treatment process description reported in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(D) The performance test or design evaluation shall determine compliance across the combination of treatment processes or control devices. If a performance test is conducted, the "inlet" shall be the point at which the wastewater stream or residual enters the first treatment process, or the vented gas stream enters the first control device. The "outlet" shall be the point at which the treated wastewater stream exits the last treatment process, or the vented gas stream exits the last control device.
