
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### 95-percent mass reduction option, for biological treatment processes.

(11)The owner or operator of a new or existing source using biological treatment for any affected wastewater shall reduce the mass of total soluble and partially soluble HAP sent to that biological treatment unit by at least 95 percent. All wastewater as defined in § 63.1251 entering such a biological treatment unit from PMPU's subject to this subpart shall be included in the demonstration of the 95-percent mass removal. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(11)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(11)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall ensure that all wastewater from PMPU's subject to this subpart entering a biological treatment unit are treated to destroy at least 95-percent total mass of all soluble and partially soluble HAP compounds.

(ii) For open biological treatment processes, compliance shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(e)(2)(iii)(E). For closed aerobic biological treatment processes, compliance shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(e)(2)(ii), (iii)(E), or (iii)(G). For closed anaerobic biological treatment processes, compliance shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(e)(2)(ii) or (iii)(G).

(iii) For each treatment process or waste management unit that receives, manages, or treats wastewater subject to this paragraph, from the POD to the biological treatment unit, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section for control of air emissions. When complying with this paragraph, the term affected wastewater in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section shall mean all wastewater from PMPU's, not just affected wastewater.

(iv) If wastewater is in compliance with the requirements in paragraph (g)(8), (9), or (12) of this section before entering the biological treatment unit, the hazardous air pollutants mass of that wastewater is not required to be included in the total mass flow rate entering the biological treatment unit for the purpose of demonstrating compliance.
