
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Delay of repair.

(i)Delay of repair of equipment for which a control equipment failure or a gap, crack, tear, or hole has been identified, is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown, as defined in ยง 63.1251, or if the owner or operator determines that emissions of purged material from immediate repair would be greater than the emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of this equipment shall occur by the end of the next shutdown.

(1) Delay of repair of equipment for which a control equipment failure or a gap, crack, tear, or hole has been identified, is allowed if the equipment is emptied or is no longer used to treat or manage affected wastewater or residuals removed from affected wastewater.

(2) Delay of repair of equipment for which a control equipment failure or a gap, crack, tear, or hole has been identified is also allowed if additional time is necessary due to the unavailability of parts beyond the control of the owner or operator. Repair shall be completed as soon as practical. The owner or operator who uses this provision shall comply with the requirements of ยง 63.1259(h) to document the reasons that the delay of repair was necessary.
