
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1256 Standards: Wastewater.
####### Control devices.

(h)For each control device or combination of control devices used to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (b) through (f) and (g)(5) of this section, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain the control device or combination of control devices in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Whenever organic HAP emissions are vented to a control device which is used to comply with the provisions of this subpart, such control device shall be operating.

(2) The control device shall be designed and operated in accordance with paragraph (h)(2) (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section, as demonstrated by the provisions in § 63.1257(e)(3).

(i) An enclosed combustion device (including but not limited to a vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) shall meet the conditions in paragraph (h)(2)(i) (A), (B), or (C) of this section, alone or in combination with other control devices. If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

(A) Reduce the organic HAP emissions vented to the control device by 95 percent by weight or greater;

(B) Achieve an outlet TOC concentration of 20 ppmv on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen. The owner or operator shall use either Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or any other method or data that has been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A of this part; or

(C) Provide a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds at a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C.

(ii) A vapor recovery system (including but not limited to a carbon adsorption system or condenser), alone or in combination with other control devices, shall reduce the organic HAP emissions vented to the control device by 95 percent by weight or greater or achieve an outlet TOC concentration of 20 ppmv. The 20 ppmv performance standard is not applicable to compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section.

(iii) A flare shall comply with the requirements of § 63.11(b).

(iv) A scrubber, alone or in combination with other control devices, shall reduce the organic HAP emissions in such a manner that 95 weight-percent is either removed, or destroyed by chemical reaction with the scrubbing liquid, or achieve an outlet TOC concentration of 20 ppmv. The 20 ppmv performance standard is not applicable to compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section.

(v) Any other control device used shall, alone or in combination with other control devices, reduce the organic HAP emissions vented to the control device by 95 percent by weight or greater or achieve an outlet TOC concentration of 20 ppmv. The 20 ppmv performance standard is not applicable to compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section.

(3) If the control device is a combustion device, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in § 63.1252(g) to control halogenated vent streams.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (i) of this section, if gaps, cracks, tears, or holes are observed in ductwork, piping, or connections to covers and control devices during an inspection, a first effort to repair shall be made as soon as practical but no later than 5 calendar days after identification. Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after identification or discovery of the defect.

(5) The provisions in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section apply at all times, except as specified in § 63.1250(g). The owner or operator may not comply with the planned routine maintenance provisions in § 63.1252(h) for vent streams from waste management units.
