
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Testing and compliance determination conditions for batch processes.

(8)Testing of emissions on equipment where the flow of gaseous emissions is intermittent (batch operations) shall be conducted as specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(9) of this section for condensers, testing shall be conducted at absolute worst-case conditions or hypothetical worst-case conditions. Gas stream volumetric flow rates shall be measured at 15-minute intervals. The HAP or TOC concentration shall be determined from samples collected in an integrated sample over the duration of the test, or from grab samples collected simultaneously with the flow rate measurements (every 15 minutes). If an integrated sample is collected for laboratory analysis, the sampling rate shall be adjusted proportionally to reflect variations in flow rate. The absolute worst-case or hypothetical worst-case conditions shall be characterized by the criteria presented in paragraphs (b)(8)(i)(A) and (B)of this section. In all cases, a site-specific plan shall be submitted to the Administrator for approval prior to testing in accordance with ยง 63.7(c) and ยง 63.1260(l). The test plan shall include the emission profile described in paragraph (b)(8)(ii) of this section.
