
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Test methods.

(b)When testing is conducted to measure emissions from an affected source, the test methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section shall be used.

(1) EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 is used for sample and velocity traverses.

(2) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of part 60 is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(3) EPA Method 3 of appendix A of part 60 is used for gas analysis.

(4) EPA Method 4 of appendix A of part 60 is used for stack gas moisture.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) The following methods are specified for concentration measurements:

(i) Method 18 may be used to determine HAP concentration in any control device efficiency determination.

(ii) Method 25 of appendix A of part 60 may be used to determine total gaseous nonmethane organic concentration for control efficiency determinations in combustion devices.

(iii) Method 26 or 26A of appendix A of part 60 shall be used to determine hydrogen chloride, hydrogen halide and halogen concentrations in control device efficiency determinations or in the 20 ppmv outlet hydrogen halide concentration standard.

(iv) Method 25A of appendix A of part 60 may be used to determine the HAP or TOC concentration for control device efficiency determinations under the conditions specified in Method 25 of appendix A for direct measurement of an effluent with a flame ionization detector, or in demonstrating compliance with the 20 ppmv TOC outlet standard. If Method 25A is used to determine the concentration of TOC for the 20 ppmv standard, the instrument shall be calibrated on methane or the predominant HAP. If calibrating on the predominant HAP, the use of Method 25A shall comply with paragraphs (b)(6)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume.

(B) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is acceptable if the response from the high level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(C) The span value of the analyzer must be less than 100 ppmv.
