
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Floating roof.

(3)If the owner or operator of an affected source chooses to comply with the provisions of § 63.1253(b) or (c) by installing a floating roof, the owner or operator shall comply with the procedures described in §§ 63.119(b), (c), (d), and 63.120(a), (b), and (c), with the differences noted in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for the purposes of this subpart.

(i) When the term "storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 and 63.120, the definition of "storage tank" in § 63.1251 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in § 63.119, April 2, 1997 shall apply instead for the purposes of this subpart.

(iii) When April 22, 1994 is referred to in § 63.119, September 21, 1998 shall apply instead for the purposes of this subpart.

(iv) When the phrase "the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part" is referred to in § 63.120, the phrase "the compliance date specified in § 63.1250" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(v) When the phrase "the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic HAP's in the stored liquid falls below the values defining Group 1 storage vessels specified in table 5 or table 6 of this subpart" is referred to in § 63.120(b)(1)(iv), the phrase "the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic HAP in the stored liquid falls below 13.1 kPa" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
