
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Initial compliance with process vent provisions.

(d)An owner or operator of an affected source complying with the process vent standards in § 63.1254 shall demonstrate compliance using the procedures described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, initial compliance with the process vent standards in § 63.1254 shall be demonstrated using the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iv), as applicable.

(i) Initial compliance with § 63.1254(a)(2)(i) is demonstrated when the actual emissions of HAP from the sum of all process vents within a process is less than or equal to 900 kg/yr. Initial compliance with § 63.1254(a)(2)(ii) is demonstrated when the actual emissions of HAP from the sum of all process vents in compliance with § 63.1254(a)(2)(i) is less than or equal to 1,800 kg/yr. Uncontrolled HAP emissions and controlled HAP emissions shall be determined using the procedures described in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section. Controlled emissions during periods of planned routine maintenance of a CCCD as specified in § 63.1252(h), must be calculated assuming the HAP emissions are reduced by 93 percent.

(ii) Initial compliance with the percent reduction requirements in § 63.1254(a)(1)(i), (a)(3), and (b) is demonstrated by:

(A) Determining controlled HAP emissions using the procedures described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and uncontrolled HAP emissions determined using the procedures described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, and demonstrating that the reductions required by § 63.1254(a)(1)(i), (a)(3), and (b) are met; or

(B) Controlling the process vents using a device meeting the criteria specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(iii) Initial compliance with the outlet concentration requirements in § 63.1254(a)(1)(ii)(A), (a)(3), and (b)(1) is demonstrated when the outlet TOC concentration is 20 ppmv or less and the outlet hydrogen halide and halogen concentration is 20 ppmv or less. The owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance by fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (a)(6) of this section.

(iv) Initial compliance with § 63.1254(c) is demonstrated by fulfilling the requirements of paragraph (a)(5) of this section.
