
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Engineering assessments.

(ii)The owner or operator shall conduct an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled HAP emissions for each emission episode that is not due to vapor displacement, purging, heating, depressurization, vacuum operations, gas evolution, or air drying. For emission episodes caused by any of these types of activities, the owner or operator also may calculate uncontrolled HAP emissions based on an engineering assessment if the owner or operator can demonstrate to the Administrator that the methods in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section are not appropriate. Modified versions of the engineering evaluation methods in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) through (H) may be used if the owner or operator demonstrates that they have been used to meet other regulatory obligations, and they do not affect applicability assessments or compliance determinations under this subpart GGG. One criterion the owner or operator could use to demonstrate that the methods in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section are not appropriate is if previous test data are available that show a greater than 20 percent discrepancy between the test value and the estimated value. An engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(A) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit.

(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(C) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
