
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Large control devices.

(ii)Except for condensers, controlled emissions for each process vent that is controlled using a large control device shall be determined by applying the control efficiency of the large control device to the estimated uncontrolled emissions. The control efficiency shall be determined by conducting a performance test on the control device as described in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, or by using the results of a previous performance test as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. If the control device is intended to control only hydrogen halides and halogens, the owner or operator may assume the control efficiency of organic HAP is zero percent. If the control device is intended to control only organic HAP, the owner or operator may assume the control efficiency for hydrogen halides and halogen is zero percent. Owners and operators are not required to conduct performance tests for devices described in paragraphs (a)(4) and (d)(4) of this section that are large control devices, as defined in ยง 63.1251.

(A) The performance test shall be conducted by performing emission testing on the inlet and outlet of the control device following the test methods and procedures of ยง 63.1257(b). Concentrations shall be calculated from the data obtained through emission testing according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(B) Performance testing shall be conducted under absolute, or hypothetical worst-case conditions, as defined in paragraphs (b)(8)(i)(A) through (B) of this section.

(C) The owner or operator may elect to conduct more than one performance test on the control device for the purpose of establishing more than one operating condition at which the control device achieves the required control efficiency.
