
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Noncombustion treatment process-concentration limits.

(B)This paragraph applies to performance tests that are conducted to demonstrate compliance of a noncombustion treatment process with the ppmw wastewater stream concentration limits at the outlet of the treatment process. This compliance option is specified in ยง 63.1256(g)(8)(i) and (9)(i). Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per paragraph (b)(10)(vi) of this section. Samples shall be collected and analyzed using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of three runs. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 may be adjusted by multiplying each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 8 of this subpart. (For affected wastewater streams that contains both partially soluble and soluble HAP compounds, compliance is demonstrated only if the sum of the concentrations of partially soluble HAP compounds is less than 50 ppmw, and the sum of the concentrations of soluble HAP compounds is less than 520 ppmw.)
