
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### 1,Concentration in wastewater stream.,5

()The concentration of partially soluble and/or soluble HAP as provided in this paragraph. Concentration measurements to determine E shall be taken as provided in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(A)() of this section for a series of treatment processes. Wastewater samples shall be collected using sampling procedures which minimize loss of organic compounds during sample collection and analysis and maintain sample integrity per paragraph (b)(10)(vi) of this section. The method shall be an analytical method for wastewater which has the compound of interest as a target analyte. Samples may be grab samples or composite samples. Samples shall be taken at approximately equally spaced time intervals over a 1-hour period. Each 1-hour period constitutes a run, and the performance test shall consist of a minimum of three runs. Concentration measurements based on Method 305 shall be adjusted by dividing each concentration by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 8 of this subpart. Concentration measurements based on methods other than Method 305 shall not be adjusted by the compound-specific Fm factor listed in Table 8 of this subpart.
