
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart A - Tribal Authority
###### ยง 49.4 Clean Air Act provisions for which it is not appropriate to treat tribes in the same manner as States.

Tribes will not be treated as States with respect to the following provisions of the Clean Air Act and any implementing regulations thereunder:

(a) Specific plan submittal and implementation deadlines for NAAQS-related requirements, including but not limited to such deadlines in sections 110(a)(1), 172(a)(2), 182, 187, 189, and 191 of the Act.

(b) The specific deadlines associated with the review and revision of implementation plans related to major fuel burning sources in section 124 of the Act.

(c) The mandatory imposition of sanctions under section 179 of the Act because of a failure to submit an implementation plan or required plan element by a specific deadline, or the submittal of an incomplete or disapproved plan or element.

(d) The provisions of section 110(c)(1) of the Act.

(e) Specific visibility implementation plan submittal deadlines established under section 169A of the Act.

(f) Specific implementation plan submittal deadlines related to interstate commissions under sections 169B(e)(2), 184(b)(1) and (c)(5) of the Act. For eligible tribes participating as members of such commissions, the Administrator shall establish those submittal deadlines that are determined to be practicable or, as with other non-participating tribes in an affected transport region, provide for Federal implementation of necessary measures.

(g) Any provisions of the Act requiring as a condition of program approval the demonstration of criminal enforcement authority or any provisions of the Act providing for the delegation of such criminal enforcement authority. Tribes seeking approval of a Clean Air Act program requiring such demonstration may receive program approval if they meet the requirements of ยง 49.8.

(h) The specific deadline for the submittal of operating permit programs in section 502(d)(1) of the Act.

(i) The mandatory imposition of sanctions under section 502(d)(2)(B) because of failure to submit an operating permit program or EPA disapproval of an operating permit program submittal in whole or part.

(j) The "2 years after the date required for submission of such a program under paragraph (1)" provision in section 502(d)(3) of the Act.

(k) Section 502(g) of the Act, which authorizes a limited interim approval of an operating permit program that substantially meets the requirements of Title V, but is not fully approvable.

(l) The provisions of section 503(c) of the Act that direct permitting authorities to establish a phased schedule assuring that at least one-third of the permit applications submitted within the first full year after the effective date of an operating permit program (or a partial or interim program) will be acted on by the permitting authority over a period not to exceed three years after the effective date.

(m) The provisions of section 507(a) of the Act that specify a deadline for the submittal of plans for establishing a small business stationary source technical and environmental compliance assistance program.

(n) The provisions of section 507(e) of the Act that direct the establishment of a Compliance Advisory Panel.

(o) The provisions of section 304 of the Act that, read together with section 302(e) of the Act, authorize any person who provides the minimum required advance notice to bring certain civil actions in the Federal district courts against States in their capacity as States.

(p) The provisions of section 502(b)(6) of the Act that require that review of a final permit action under the Title V permitting program be "judicial" and "in State court," and the provisions of section 502(b)(7) of the Act that require that review of a failure on the part of the permitting authority to act on permit applications or renewals by the time periods specified in section 503 of the Act be "judicial" and "in State court."

(q) The provision of section 105(a)(1) that limits the maximum Federal share for grants to pollution control agencies to three-fifths of the cost of implementing programs for the prevention and control of air pollution or implementation of national primary and secondary ambient air quality standards.
