
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart A - Tribal Authority
###### ยง 49.7 Request by an Indian tribe for eligibility determination and Clean Air Act program approval.

(a) An Indian tribe may apply to the EPA Regional Administrator for a determination that it meets the eligibility requirements of ยง 49.6 for Clean Air Act program approval. The application shall concisely describe how the Indian tribe will meet each of the requirements of ยง 49.6 and should include the following information:

(1) A statement that the applicant is an Indian tribe recognized by the Secretary of the Interior.

(2) A descriptive statement demonstrating that the applicant is currently carrying out substantial governmental duties and powers over a defined area. This statement should:

(i) Describe the form of the tribal government;

(ii) Describe the types of government functions currently performed by the tribal governing body such as, but not limited to, the exercise of police powers affecting (or relating to) the health, safety, and welfare of the affected population; taxation; and the exercise of the power of eminent domain; and

(iii) Identify the source of the tribal government's authority to carry out the governmental functions currently being performed.

(3) A descriptive statement of the Indian tribe's authority to regulate air quality. For applications covering areas within the exterior boundaries of the applicant's reservation the statement must identify with clarity and precision the exterior boundaries of the reservation including, for example, a map and a legal description of the area. For tribal applications covering areas outside the boundaries of a reservation the statement should include:

(i) A map or legal description of the area over which the application asserts authority; and

(ii) A statement by the applicant's legal counsel (or equivalent official) that describes the basis for the tribe's assertion of authority (including the nature or subject matter of the asserted regulatory authority) which may include a copy of documents such as tribal constitutions, by-laws, charters, executive orders, codes, ordinances, and/or resolutions that support the tribe's assertion of authority.

(4) A narrative statement describing the capability of the applicant to administer effectively any Clean Air Act program for which the tribe is seeking approval. The narrative statement must demonstrate the applicant's capability consistent with the applicable provisions of the Clean Air Act and implementing regulations and, if requested by the Regional Administrator, may include:
