
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Pollution prevention alternative standard.

(f)The owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with § 63.1252(e)(2) using the procedures described in paragraph (f)(1) and (f)(3) of this section. The owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with § 63.1252(e)(3) using the procedures described in paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section.

(1) Compliance is demonstrated when the annual kg/kg factor, calculated according to the procedure in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (iii) of this section, is reduced by at least 75 percent as calculated according to the procedure in paragraph (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The production-indexed HAP consumption factors shall be calculated by dividing annual consumption of total HAP by the annual production rate, per process. The production-indexed total VOC consumption factor shall be calculated by dividing annual consumption of total VOC by the annual production rate, per process.

(ii) The baseline factor is calculated from yearly production and consumption data for the first 3-year period in which the PMPU was operational, beginning no earlier than the 1987 calendar year, or for a minimum period of 12 months from startup of the process until the present in which the PMPU was operational and data are available, beginning no earlier than the 1987 calendar year.

(iii) The annual factor is calculated on the following bases:

(A) For continuous processes, the annual factor shall be calculated every 30 days for the 12-month period preceding the 30th day (30-day rolling average).

(B) For batch processes, the annual factor shall be calculated either every 10 batches for the 12-month period preceding the 10th batch (10-batch rolling average) or a maximum of once per month, if the number of batches is greater than 10 batches per month. The annual factor shall be calculated every 5 batches if the number of batches is less than 10 for the 12-month period preceding the 10th batch and shall be calculated every year if the number of batches is less than 5 for the 12-month period preceding the 5th batch.

(2) Compliance is demonstrated when the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section are met.

(i) The annual kg/kg factor, calculated according to the procedure in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section, is reduced to a value equal to or less than 50 percent of the baseline factor calculated according to the procedure in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(ii) The yearly reductions associated with add-on controls that meet the criteria of §§ 63.1252(h)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) must be equal to or greater than the amounts calculated in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section:

(A) The mass of HAP calculated using Equation 55 of this subpart:

(B) The mass of VOC calculated using Equation 56 of this subpart:

(iii) Demonstration that the criteria in § 63.1252(e)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) are met shall be accomplished through a description of the control device and of the material streams entering and exiting the control device.

(iv) The annual reduction achieved by the add-on control shall be quantified using the methods described in § 63.1257(d).

(3) Each owner or operator of a PMPU complying with the P2 standard shall prepare a P2 demonstration summary that shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) Descriptions of the methodologies and forms used to measure and record daily consumption of HAP compounds reduced as part of the P2 standard.

(ii) Descriptions of the methodologies and forms used to measure and record daily production of products which are included in the P2 standard.

(iii) Supporting documentation for the descriptions provided in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) including, but not limited to, operator log sheets and copies of daily, monthly, and annual inventories of materials and products.
