
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1257 Test methods and compliance procedures.
####### Compliance with process vent provisions by using emissions averaging.

(h)An owner or operator with two or more affected processes complying with ยง 63.1254 by using emissions averaging shall demonstrate compliance with paragraphs (h)(1), (2) and (3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall develop and submit for approval an Implementation Plan at least 6 months prior to the compliance date of the standard containing all the information required in ยง 63.1259(e). The Administrator shall have 90 days to approve or disapprove the emissions averaging plan. The plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing, or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 90-day period shall begin when the Administrator receives the request. If the request is denied, the owner or operator must still be in compliance with the standard by the compliance date.

(2) Owners or operators shall calculate uncontrolled and controlled emissions of HAP by using the methods specified in paragraph (d)(2) and (3) of this section for each process included in the emissions average.

(3) Equations 60 and 61 of this subpart shall be used to calculate total HAP emissions:

(4) The overall percent reduction efficiency shall be calculated using Equation 62 of this subpart:
