
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1258 Monitoring Requirements.
####### Scrubbers.

(ii)For affected sources using liquid scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber liquid flow rate or pressure drop as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded every 15 minutes during the period in which the scrubber is functioning in achieving the HAP removal required by this subpart. If the scrubber uses a caustic solution to remove acid emissions, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum pH of the effluent scrubber liquid as a site-specific operating parameter which must be monitored at least once a day. As an alternative to measuring pH, you may elect to continuously monitor the caustic strength of the scrubber effluent. The minimum scrubber flowrate or pressure drop shall be based on the conditions anticipated under worst-case conditions, as defined in ยง 63.1257(b)(8)(i).

(A) The monitoring device used to determine the pressure drop shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within a gage pressure of +/-10 percent of the maximum pressure drop measured.

(B) The monitoring device used for measurement of scrubber liquid flowrate shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate within +/-10 percent of the design scrubber liquid flowrate.

(C) The monitoring device shall be calibrated annually.
