
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart A - Tribal Authority
###### ยง 49.7 Request by an Indian tribe for eligibility determination and Clean Air Act program approval.
####### et seq.,et seq.

(i) A description of the Indian tribe's previous management experience which may include the administration of programs and services authorized by the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450,), the Indian Mineral Development Act (25 U.S.C. 2101,), or the Indian Sanitation Facility Construction Activity Act (42 U.S.C. 2004a);

(ii) A list of existing environmental or public health programs administered by the tribal governing body and a copy of related tribal laws, policies, and regulations;

(iii) A description of the entity (or entities) that exercise the executive, legislative, and judicial functions of the tribal government;

(iv) A description of the existing, or proposed, agency of the Indian tribe that will assume primary responsibility for administering a Clean Air Act program (including a description of the relationship between the existing or proposed agency and its regulated entities);

(v) A description of the technical and administrative capabilities of the staff to administer and manage an effective air quality program or a plan which proposes how the tribe will acquire administrative and technical expertise. The plan should address how the tribe will obtain the funds to acquire the administrative and technical expertise.

(5) A tribe that is a member of a tribal consortium may rely on the expertise and resources of the consortium in demonstrating under paragraph (a)(4) of this section that the tribe is reasonably expected to be capable of carrying out the functions to be exercised consistent with ยง 49.6(d). A tribe relying on a consortium in this manner must provide reasonable assurances that the tribe has responsibility for carrying out necessary functions in the event the consortium fails to.

(6) Where applicable Clean Air Act or implementing regulatory requirements mandate criminal enforcement authority, an application submitted by an Indian tribe may be approved if it meets the requirements of ยง 49.8.

(7) Additional information required by the EPA Regional Administrator which, in the judgment of the EPA Regional Administrator, is necessary to support an application.

(8) Where the applicant has previously received authorization for a Clean Air Act program or for any other EPA-administered program, the applicant need only identify the prior authorization and provide the required information which has not been submitted in the previous application.

(b) A tribe may simultaneously submit a request for an eligibility determination and a request for approval of a Clean Air Act program.

(c) A request for Clean Air Act program approval must meet any applicable Clean Air Act statutory and regulatory requirements. A program approval request may be comprised of only partial elements of a Clean Air Act program, provided that any such elements are reasonably severable, that is, not integrally related to program elements that are not included in the plan submittal, and are consistent with applicable statutory and regulatory requirements.
