
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1258 Monitoring Requirements.
####### Large control devices.

(ii)For devices controlling greater than 10 tons per year of HAP for which a performance test is required, the parameter level must be established as follows:

(A) If the operating parameter level to be established is a maximum, it must be based on the average of the values from each of the three test runs.

(B) If the operating parameter level to be established is a minimum, it must be based on the average of the values from each of the three test runs.

(C) The owner or operator may establish the parametric monitoring level(s) based on the performance test supplemented by engineering assessments and manufacturer's recommendations. Performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of expected parameter values. The rationale for the specific level for each parameter, including any data and calculations used to develop the level(s) and a description of why the level indicates proper operation of the control device shall be provided in the Precompliance report. The procedures specified in this section have not been approved by the Administrator and determination of the parametric monitoring level using these procedures is subject to review and approval by the Administrator.
