
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1258 Monitoring Requirements.
####### Averaging periods.

(2)Averaging periods for parametric monitoring levels shall be established according to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, a daily (24-hour) or block average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter level set according to the procedures in (b)(3)(iii) of this section recorded during the operating day or block.

(ii) The operating day or block shall be defined in the Notification of Compliance Status report. The daily average may be from midnight to midnight or another continuous 24-hour period. The block average is limited to a period of time that is, at a maximum, equal to the time from the beginning to end of a batch process.

(iii) Monitoring values taken during periods in which the control devices are not functioning in controlling emissions, as indicated by periods of no flow, shall not be considered in the averages. Where flow to the device could be intermittent, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate and operate a flow indicator at the inlet or outlet of the control device to identify periods of no flow.
