
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1258 Monitoring Requirements.
####### Detection instrument performance criteria.

(ii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, the detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the average composition of the process fluid not each individual VOC in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, or other inerts which are not organic HAP or VOC, the average stream response factor shall be calculated on an inert-free basis.

(B) If no instrument is available at the plant site that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, the instrument readings may be adjusted by multiplying by the average response factor of the process fluid, calculated on an inert-free basis as described in paragraph (h)(3)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(iv) Calibration gases shall be as follows:

(A) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million hydrocarbon in air); and

(B) Mixtures of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million. A calibration gas other than methane in air may be used if the instrument does not respond to methane or if the instrument does not meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(A) of this section. In such cases, the calibration gas may be a mixture of one or more of the compounds to be measured in air.

(v) An owner or operator may elect to adjust or not adjust instrument readings for background. If an owner or operator elects to not adjust readings for background, all such instrument readings shall be compared directly to the applicable leak definition to determine whether there is a leak. If an owner or operator elects to adjust instrument readings for background, the owner or operator shall measure background concentration using the procedures in § 63.180(b) and (c). The owner or operator shall subtract background reading from the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument.

(vi) The background level shall be determined according to the procedures in Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60 appendix A.

(vii) The arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with 500 parts per million for determining compliance.

(4) Leaks, as indicated by an instrument reading greater than 500 parts per million above background or by visual inspections, shall be repaired as soon as practicable, except as provided in paragraph (h)(5) of this section.

(i) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected.

(ii) Repair shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected, except as provided in paragraph (h)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) For leaks found in vapor collection systems used for transfer operations, repairs shall be completed no later than 15 calendar days after the leak is detected or at the beginning of the next transfer loading operation, whichever is later.

(5) Delay of repair of a vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure for which leaks have been detected is allowed if the repair is technically infeasible without a shutdown, as defined in § 63.1251, or if the owner or operator determines that emissions resulting from immediate repair would be greater than the fugitive emissions likely to result from delay of repair. Repair of such equipment shall be complete by the end of the next shutdown.

(6) Any parts of the vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure that are designated, as described in paragraph (h)(8) of this section, as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section if:

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practicable during safe-to-inspect times.

(7) Any parts of the vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure that are designated, as described in paragraph (h)(8) of this section, as difficult to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraphs (h)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii)(A) of this section if:

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.

(8) Records shall be maintained as specified in § 63.1259(i) (4) through (9).

(9) If a closed-vent system subject to this section is also subject to the equipment leak provisions of § 63.1255, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of § 63.1255 and is exempt from the requirements of this section.

(10) Instead of complying with the provisions of paragraphs (h)(2) through (8) of this section, an owner or operator may design a closed-vent system to operate at a pressure below atmospheric pressure. The system shall be equipped with at least one pressure gauge or other pressure measurement device that can be read from a readily accessible location to verify that negative pressure is being maintained in the closed-vent system when the associated control device is operating.
