
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1258 Monitoring Requirements.
####### Inspection and monitoring of waste management units and treatment processes.

(g)(1) For each wastewater tank, surface impoundment, container, individual drain system, and oil-water separator that receives, manages, or treats wastewater, a residual removed from wastewater, a recycled wastewater, or a recycled residual removed from wastewater, the owner or operator shall comply with the inspection requirements specified in Table 7 of this subpart.

(2) For each biological treatment unit used to comply with ยง 63.1256(g), the owner or operator shall monitor TSS, BOD, and the biomass concentration at a frequency approved by the permitting authority and using methods approved by the permitting authority. The owner or operator may request approval to monitor other parameters. The request shall be submitted in the Precompliance report according to the procedures specified in ยง 63.1260(e), and shall include a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The owner or operator shall include as part of the submittal the basis for the selected monitoring frequencies and the methods that will be used. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means.

(3) For nonbiological treatment units, the owner or operator shall request approval to monitor appropriate parameters that demonstrate proper operation of the selected treatment process. The request shall be submitted in the Precompliance report according to the procedures specified in ยง 63.1260(e), and shall include a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures. The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the permit application or by other appropriate means.
