
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1258 Monitoring Requirements.
####### Leak inspection provisions for vapor suppression equipment.

(h)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(9) and (10) of this section, for each vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure required to comply with this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (h)(2) through (8) of this section.

(2) Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(6) and (7) of this section, each vapor collection system and closed-vent system shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and each fixed roof, cover, and enclosure shall be inspected according to the procedures and schedule specified in paragraph (h)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) If the vapor collection system or closed-vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall:

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, and

(B) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(ii) If the vapor collection system or closed-vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall:

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, and

(B) Conduct annual inspections according to the procedures in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(C) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(iii) For each fixed roof, cover, and enclosure, the owner or operator shall:

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, and

(B) Conduct semiannual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(3) Each vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, and enclosure shall be inspected according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Inspections shall be conducted in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.
