
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1259 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of emissions averaging.

(e)The owner or operator of any affected source that chooses to comply with the requirements of § 63.1252(d) shall maintain up-to-date records of the following information:

(1) An Implementation Plan which shall include in the plan, for all process vents and storage tanks included in each of the averages, the information listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The identification of all process vents and storage tanks in each emissions average.

(ii) The uncontrolled and controlled emissions of HAP and the overall percent reduction efficiency as determined in §§ 63.1257(g)(1) through (4) or 63.1257(h)(1) through (3) as applicable.

(iii) The calculations used to obtain the uncontrolled and controlled HAP emissions and the overall percent reduction efficiency.

(iv) The estimated values for all parameters required to be monitored under § 63.1258(f) for each process and storage tank included in an average.

(v) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping and reporting provisions in §§ 63.1257(g) and (h), 63.1258(f), and 63.1260(k) that are applicable to each emission point in the emissions average will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance.

(2) The Implementation Plan must demonstrate that the emissions from the processes and storage tanks proposed to be included in the average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the operating permit authority, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the storage tanks and process vents were controlled according to the provisions in §§ 63.1253 and 63.1254, respectively.

(i) This demonstration of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made to the satisfaction of the operating permit authority.

(A) The Administrator may require owners and operators to use specific methodologies and procedures for making a hazard or risk determination.

(B) The demonstration and approval of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made according to any guidance that the Administrator makes available for use or any other technically sound information or methods.

(ii) An emissions averaging plan that does not demonstrate hazard or risk equivalency to the satisfaction of the Administrator shall not be approved. The Administrator may require such adjustments to the emissions averaging plan as are necessary in order to ensure that the average will not result in greater hazard or risk to human health or the environment than would result if the emission points were controlled according to §§ 63.1253 and 63.1254.

(iii) A hazard or risk equivalency demonstration must:

(A) Be a quantitative, comparative chemical hazard or risk assessment;

(B) Account for differences between averaging and non-averaging options in chemical hazard or risk to human health or the environment; and

(C) Meet any requirements set by the Administrator for such demonstrations.

(3) Records as specified in paragraphs (a), (b) and (d) of this section.

(4) A rolling quarterly calculation of the annual percent reduction efficiency as specified in § 63.1257(g) and (h).
