
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1259 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of inspections.

(i)The owner or operator shall keep records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) A record that each waste management unit inspection required by § 63.1256(b) through (f) was performed.

(2) A record that each inspection for control devices required by § 63.1256(h) was performed.

(3) A record of the results of each seal gap measurement required by § 63.1256(b)(5) and (f)(3). The records shall include the date of measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 63.120(b)(2) through (4).

(4) Records identifying all parts of the vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure that are designated as unsafe to inspect in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(6), an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(5) Records identifying all parts of the vapor collection system, closed-vent system, fixed roof, cover, or enclosure that are designated as difficult to inspect in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(7), an explanation of why the equipment is difficult to inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment.

(6) For each vapor collection system or closed-vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and to the atmosphere, the owner or operator shall keep a record of the information specified in either paragraph (i)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator specified under § 63.1252(b)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times and durations of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.

(ii) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.1252(b)(2), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms has been done, and shall record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.

(7) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(2) and (3) during which a leak is detected, a record of the information specified in paragraphs (i)(7)(i) through (ix) of this section.

(i) Identification of the leaking equipment.

(ii) The instrument identification numbers and operator name or initials, if the leak was detected using the procedures described in § 63.1258(h)(3); or a record that the leak was detected by sensory observations.

(iii) The date the leak was detected and the date of the first attempt to repair the leak.

(iv) Maximum instrument reading measured by the method specified in § 63.1258(h)(4) after the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.

(v) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(vi) The name, initials, or other form of identification of the owner or operator (or designee) whose decision it was that repair could not be effected without a shutdown.

(vii) The expected date of successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days.

(viii) Dates of shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.

(ix) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(8) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(3) during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(9) For each visual inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(2)(i)(B) or (h)(2)(iii)(B) of this section during which no leaks are detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.
