
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1259 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of equipment operation.

(b)The owner or operator must keep the following records up-to-date and readily accessible:

(1) Each measurement of a control device operating parameter monitored in accordance with § 63.1258 and each measurement of a treatment process parameter monitored in accordance with § 63.1258(g)(2) and (3).

(2) For processes subject to § 63.1252(e), records of consumption, production, and the rolling average values of the production-indexed HAP and VOC consumption factors.

(3) For each continuous monitoring system used to comply with this subpart, records documenting the completion of calibration checks and maintenance of continuous monitoring systems.

(4) For purposes of compliance with the annual mass limits of § 63.1254(a)(2) and (b)(2), daily records of the rolling annual total emissions.

(5) Records of the following, as appropriate:

(i) For processes that are in compliance with the percent reduction requirements of § 63.1254(a)(1) or (b)(1) and that contain vents controlled to less than the percent reduction requirement, the records specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section are required.

(A) Standard batch uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each process;

(B) Actual uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each nonstandard batch; and

(C) A record whether each batch operated was considered a standard batch.

(ii) For processes in compliance with the annual mass limits of § 63.1254(a)(2) or (b)(2), the following records are required:

(A) The number of batches per year for each batch process;

(B) The operating hours per year for continuous processes;

(C) Standard batch uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each process;

(D) Actual controlled emissions for each batch operated during periods of planned routine maintenance of a CCCD, calculated according to § 63.1258(c).

(E) Actual uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each nonstandard batch;

(F) A record whether each batch operated was considered a standard batch.

(6) Wastewater concentration per POD or process, except as provided in § 63.1256(a)(1)(ii).

(7) Number of storage tank turnovers per year, if used in an emissions average.

(8) A schedule or log of each operating scenario updated daily or, at a minimum, each time a different operating scenario is put into operation.

(9) Description of worst-case operating conditions as required in § 63.1257(b)(8).

(10) Periods of planned routine maintenance as described in §§ 63.1252(h) and 63.1257(c)(5).

(11) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.1253(b) or (c) by installing a floating roof, the owner or operator must keep records of each inspection and seal gap measurement in accordance with § 63.123(c) through (e) as applicable.

(12) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.1253(f), the owner or operator must keep records of the DOT certification required by § 63.1253(f)(2) and the pressure relief vent setting and the leak detection records specified in § 63.1253(f)(5).

(13) All maintenance performed on the air pollution control equipment.
