
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1260 Reporting requirements.
####### Submittal schedule.

(1)Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, an owner or operator shall submit Periodic reports semiannually. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due. Each subsequent Periodic report shall cover the 6-month period following the preceding period.

(i) When the Administrator determines on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the affected source; or

(ii) Quarterly reports shall be submitted when the source experiences an exceedance of a temperature limit monitored according to the provisions of ยง 63.1258(b)(1)(iii) or an exceedance of the outlet concentration monitored according to the provisions of ยง 63.1258(b)(1)(x) or (b)(5). Once an affected source reports quarterly, the affected source shall follow a quarterly reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency is approved. If an owner or operator submits a request to reduce the frequency of reporting, the provisions in ยง 63.10(e)(3)(ii) and (iii) shall apply, except that the phrase "excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and/or summary report" shall mean "Periodic report" for the purposes of this section.

(iii) When a new operating scenario has been operated since the last report, in which case quarterly reports shall be submitted.
