
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1260 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of Compliance Status report.

(f)The Notification of Compliance Status report required under § 63.9 shall be submitted no later than 150 days after the compliance date and shall include:

(1) The results of any applicability determinations, emission calculations, or analyses used to identify and quantify HAP emissions from the affected source.

(2) The results of emissions profiles, performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, or calculations used to demonstrate compliance. For performance tests, results should include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures.

(3) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the values of monitored parameters established during the initial compliance determinations, including data and calculations to support the levels established.

(4) Listing of all operating scenarios.

(5) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices.

(6) Identification of emission points subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.1250(h) and the authority under which the owner or operator will comply.

(7) Anticipated periods of planned routine maintenance of a CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h) during the period between the compliance date and the end of the period covered by the first Periodic report, and if applicable, the rationale for why the planned routine maintenance must be performed while a process with a vent subject to § 63.1254(a)(3) will be operating.
