
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### ยง 63.1260 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of process change.

(h)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, whenever a process change is made, or a change in any of the information submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status Report, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section with the next Periodic report required under paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) A brief description of the process change.

(ii) A description of any modifications to standard procedures or quality assurance procedures.

(iii) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original Notification of Compliance Status Report under paragraph (f) of this section.

(iv) Information required by the Notification of Compliance Status Report under paragraph (f) of this section for changes involving the addition of processes or equipment.

(2) An owner or operator must submit a report 60 days before the scheduled implementation date of either of the following:

(i) Any change in the activity covered by the Precompliance report.

(ii) A change in the status of a control device from small to large.

(i) The owner or operator shall submit a report of the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 63.1250(g)(3), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. The report shall be submitted on the same schedule as the periodic reports required under paragraph (g) of this section.
