
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1260 Reporting requirements.
####### Precompliance report.

(e)The Precompliance report shall be submitted at least 6 months prior to the compliance date of the standard. For new sources, the Precompliance report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction. The Administrator shall have 90 days to approve or disapprove the plan. The plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the plan in writing, or fails to disapprove the plan in writing. The 90 day period shall begin when the Administrator receives the request. If the request is denied, the owner or operator must still be in compliance with the standard by the compliance date. To change any of the information submitted in the report, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator 90 days before the planned change is to be implemented; the change shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the change in writing, or fails to disapprove the change in writing. The Precompliance report shall include:

(1) Requests for approval to use alternative monitoring parameters or requests to set monitoring parameters according to § 63.1258(b)(4).

(2) Descriptions of the daily or per batch demonstrations to verify that control devices subject to § 63.1258(b)(1)(i) are operating as designed.

(3) A description of test conditions, and the corresponding monitoring parameter values for parameters that are set according to § 63.1258(b)(3)(ii)(C).

(4) For owners and operators complying with the requirements of § 63.1252(e), the P2 demonstration summary required in § 63.1257(f).

(5) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions from process vents as required in § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii).

(6) Data and other information supporting the determination of annual average concentrations by process simulation as required in § 63.1257(e)(1)(ii).

(7) Bench scale or pilot-scale test data and rationale used to determine annual average concentrations as required in § 63.1257(e)(1)(ii)(C).
