
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGG - National Emission Standards for Pharmaceuticals Production
###### § 63.1260 Reporting requirements.
####### Content of Periodic report.

(2)The owner or operator shall include the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Each Periodic report must include the information in § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(A) through (I) and (K) through (M). For each continuous monitoring system, the Periodic report must also include the information in § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(J).

(ii) If the total duration of excess emissions, parameter exceedances, or excursions for the reporting period is 1 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the total continuous monitoring system downtime for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, the Periodic report must include the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Monitoring data, including 15-minute monitoring values as well as daily average values of monitored parameters, for all operating days when the average values were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status report or operating permit.

(B) Duration of excursions, as defined in § 63.1258(b)(7).

(C) Operating logs and operating scenarios for all operating scenarios for all operating days when the values are outside the levels established in the Notification of Compliance Status report or operating permit.

(D) When a continuous monitoring system is used, the information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13).

(iii) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1258(h)(2) or (3) during which a leak is detected, the records specified in § 63.1259(i)(7) must be included in the next Periodic report.

(iv) For each vapor collection system or closed vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.1252(b)(1), records required under § 63.1259(i)(6)(i) of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line. For each vapor collection system or closed vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.1252(b)(2), records required under § 63.1259(i)(6)(ii) of all periods in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.

(v) The information in paragraphs (g)(2)(v)(A) through (D) of this section shall be stated in the Periodic report, when applicable.

(A) No excess emissions.

(B) No exceedances of a parameter.

(C) No excursions.

(D) No continuous monitoring system has been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted.

(vi) The information specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) for periods of planned routine maintenance.

(A) For each storage tank subject to control requirements, periods of planned routine maintenance during which the control device does not meet the specifications of § 63.1253(b) through (d).

(B) For a CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h), periods of planned routine maintenance during the current reporting period and anticipated periods of planned routine maintenance during the next reporting period.

(C) Rationale for why planned routine maintenance of a CCCD subject to § 63.1252(h) must be performed while a process with a vent subject to § 63.1254(a)(3) will be operating, if applicable. This requirement applies only if the rationale is not in, or differs from that in, the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(vii) Each new operating scenario which has been operated since the time period covered by the last Periodic report. For each new operating scenario, the owner or operator shall provide verification that the operating conditions for any associated control or treatment device have not been exceeded, and that any required calculations and engineering analyses have been performed. For the initial Periodic report, each operating scenario for each process operated since the due date of the Notification of Compliance Status Report shall be submitted.

(viii) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the provisions of § 63.1253(b) or (c) by installing a floating roof, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.122(d) through (f) as applicable. References to § 63.152 from § 63.122 shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.
