
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1281 Control equipment requirements.
####### Control device requirements for sources except small glycol dehydration units.

(d)Owners and operators of small glycol dehydration units shall comply with the control requirements in paragraph (f) of this section.

(1) The control device used to reduce HAP emissions in accordance with the standards of this subpart shall be one of the control devices specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) An enclosed combustion device (e.g., thermal vapor incinerator, catalytic vapor incinerator, boiler, or process heater) that is designed and operated in accordance with one of the following performance requirements:

(A) Reduces the mass content of either TOC or total HAP in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater, as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d);

(B) Reduces the concentration of either TOC or total HAP in the exhaust gases at the outlet to the device to a level equal to or less than 20 parts per million by volume on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d); or

(C) Operates at a minimum temperature of 760 degrees C, provided the control device has demonstrated, under § 63.1282(d), that combustion zone temperature is an indicator of destruction efficiency.

(D) If a boiler or process heater is used as the control device, then the vent stream shall be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

(ii) A vapor recovery device (e.g., carbon adsorption system or condenser) or other non-destructive control device that is designed and operated to reduce the mass content of either TOC or total HAP in the gases vented to the device by 95.0 percent by weight or greater as determined in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d).

(iii) A flare, as defined in § 63.1271, that is designed and operated in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11(b).

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that a control device achieves the performance requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section by following the procedures specified in § 63.1282(d).

(4) The owner or operator shall operate each control device in accordance with the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Each control device used to comply with this subpart shall be operating at all times when gases, vapors, and fumes are vented from the emissions unit or units through the closed vent system to the control device as required under § 63.1275. An owner or operator may vent more than one unit to a control device used to comply with this subpart.

(ii) For each control device monitored in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1283(d), the owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance according to the requirements of § 63.1282(e), or (f) as applicable.

(5) For each carbon adsorption system used as a control device to meet the requirements of paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall manage the carbon as follows:

(i) Following the initial startup of the control device, all carbon in the control device shall be replaced with fresh carbon on a regular, predetermined time interval that is no longer than the carbon service life established for the carbon adsorption system. Records identifying the schedule for replacement and records of each carbon replacement shall be maintained as required in § 63.1284(b)(7)(ix). The schedule for replacement shall be submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status Report as specified in § 63.1285(d)(4)(iv). Each carbon replacement must be reported in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.1285(e)(2)(xi).

(ii) The spent carbon removed from the carbon adsorption system shall be either regenerated, reactivated, or burned in one of the units specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(ii)(A) through (d)(5)(ii)(G) of this section.

(A) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart X.

(B) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating organic air emission controls in accordance with this section.

(C) Regenerated or reactivated in a thermal treatment unit equipped with and operating organic air emission controls in accordance with a national emissions standard for HAP under another subpart in 40 CFR part 61 or this part.

(D) Burned in a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O.

(E) Burned in a hazardous waste incinerator which the owner or operator has designed and operates in accordance with the requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.

(F) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 that implements the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.

(G) Burned in a boiler or industrial furnace which the owner or operator has designed and operates in accordance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
