
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1274 General standards.
####### i.e.,

(c) The owner or operator of an affected source (glycol dehydration unit) located at an existing or new major source of HAP emissions shall comply with the requirements in this subpart as follows:

(1) The control requirements for glycol dehydration unit process vents specified in § 63.1275;

(2) The monitoring requirements specified in § 63.1283, and

(3) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements specified in §§ 63.1284 and 63.1285.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) Each owner or operator of a major HAP source subject to this subpart is required to apply for a part 70 or part 71 operating permit from the appropriate permitting authority. If the Administrator has approved a State operating permit program under part 70, the permit shall be obtained from the State authority. If a State operating permit program has not been approved, the owner or operator shall apply to the EPA Regional Office pursuant to part 71.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) In all cases where the provisions of this subpart require an owner or operator to repair leaks by a specified time after the leak is detected, it is a violation of this standard to fail to take action to repair the leak(s) within the specified time. If action is taken to repair the leak(s) within the specified time, failure of that action to successfully repair the leak(s) is not a violation of this standard. However, if the repairs are unsuccessful, and a leak is detected, the owner or operator shall take further action as required by the applicable provisions of this subpart.

(h) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
