
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1282 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Control device performance test procedures.

(d)This paragraph applies to the performance testing of control devices. The owners or operators shall demonstrate that a control device achieves the performance requirements of § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1) using a performance test as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. Owners or operators using a condenser have the option to use a design analysis as specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. The owner or operator may elect to use the alternative procedures in paragraph (d)(5) of this section for performance testing of a condenser used to control emissions from a glycol dehydration unit process vent. Flares shall meet the provisions in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. As an alternative to conducting a performance test under this section for combustion control devices, a control device that can be demonstrated to meet the performance requirements of § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1) through a performance test conducted by the manufacturer, as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, can be used.

(1) The following control devices are exempt from the requirements to conduct performance tests and design analyses under this section:

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, a flare, as defined in § 63.1271, that is designed and operated in accordance with § 63.11(b);

(ii) Except for control devices used for small glycol dehydration units, a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater;

(iii) Except for control devices used for small glycol dehydration units, a boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel;

(iv) Except for control devices used for small glycol dehydration units, a boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste for which the owner or operator has either been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H;

(v) Except for control devices used for small glycol dehydration units, a hazardous waste incinerator for which the owner or operator has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.

(vi) A control device for which a performance test was conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA, and the test was conducted using the same methods specified in this section, and either no process changes have been made since the test, or the owner or operator can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(2) An owner or operator shall design and operate each flare, as defined in § 63.1271, in accordance with the requirements specified in § 63.11(b) and the compliance determination shall be conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to determine visible emissions.

(3) For a performance test conducted to demonstrate that a control device meets the requirements of § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1) the owner or operator shall use the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (v) of this section. The initial and periodic performance tests shall be conducted according to the schedule specified in paragraph (d)(3)(vi) of this section.

(i) Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section. Any references to particulate mentioned in Methods 1 and 1A do not apply to this section.

(A) To determine compliance with the control device percent reduction requirements specified in § 63.1281(d)(1)(i)(A),(d)(1)(ii), or (e)(3)(ii), sampling sites shall be located at the inlet of the first control device and at the outlet of the final control device.

(B) To determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total HAP concentration limit specified in § 63.1281(d)(1)(i)(B), or the BTEX emission limit specified in § 63.1275(b)(1)(iii), the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the combustion device.

(ii) The gas volumetric flowrate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(iii) To determine compliance with the control device percent reduction performance requirement in § 63.1281(d)(1)(i)(A), 63.1281(d)(1)(ii), or 63.1281(e)(3)(ii), the owner or operator shall use either Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; or ASTM D6420-99 (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14), as specified in § 63.772(a)(1)(ii); alternatively, any other method or data that have been validated according to the applicable procedures in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate the percentage of reduction:

(A) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.
