
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### ยง 63.1282 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Determination of glycol dehydration unit flowrate, benzene emissions, or BTEX emissions.

(a)The procedures of this paragraph shall be used by an owner or operator to determine glycol dehydration unit natural gas flowrate, benzene emissions, or BTEX emissions.

(1) The determination of actual flowrate of natural gas to a glycol dehydration unit shall be made using the procedures of either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall install and operate a monitoring instrument that directly measures natural gas flowrate to the glycol dehydration unit with an accuracy of plus or minus 2 percent or better. The owner or operator shall convert the annual natural gas flowrate to a daily average by dividing the annual flowrate by the number of days per year the glycol dehydration unit processed natural gas.

(ii) The owner or operator shall document, to the Administrator's satisfaction, the actual annual average natural gas flowrate to the glycol dehydration unit.

(2) The determination of actual average benzene or BTEX emissions from a glycol dehydration unit shall be made using the procedures of either paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. Emissions shall be determined either uncontrolled or with federally enforceable controls in place.

(i) The owner or operator shall determine actual average benzene or BTEX emissions using the model GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher, and the procedures presented in the associated GRI-GLYCalcTechnical Reference Manual. Inputs to the model shall be representative of actual operating conditions of the glycol dehydration unit and may be determined using the procedures documented in the Gas Research Institute (GRI) report entitled "Atmospheric Rich/Lean Method for Determining Glycol Dehydrator Emissions" (GRI-95/0368.1); or

(ii) The owner or operator shall determine an average mass rate of benzene or BTEX emissions in kilograms per hour through direct measurement by performing three runs of Method 18 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; or ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2004) (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 63.14), as specified in ยง 63.772(a)(1)(ii); or an equivalent method; and averaging the results of the three runs. Annual emissions in kilograms per year shall be determined by multiplying the mass rate by the number of hours the unit is operated per year. This result shall be converted to megagrams per year.
