
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### ยง 63.1282 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### 4,1

() As an alternative to the procedures for calculating Especified in paragraph (d)(3)(iii)(B)() of this section, the owner or operator may use the model GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher, and the procedures presented in the associated GRI-GLYCalcTechnical Reference Manual. Inputs to the model shall be representative of actual operating conditions of the glycol dehydration unit and shall be determined using the procedures documented in the Gas Research Institute (GRI) report entitled "Atmospheric Rich/Lean Method for Determining Glycol Dehydrator Emissions" (GRI-95/0368.1). When the TOC mass rate is calculated for glycol dehydration units using the model GRI-GLYCalc, all organic compounds (minus methane and ethane) measured by Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be summed. When the total HAP mass rate is calculated for glycol dehydration units using the model GRI-GLYCalc, only HAP chemicals listed in Table 1 of this subpart shall be summed.

(C) The percentage of reduction in TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP shall be calculated as follows:

(D) If the vent stream entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, the weight-percentage of reduction of total HAP or TOC (minus methane and ethane) across the device shall be determined by comparing the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP in all combusted vent streams and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP exiting the device, respectively.

(iv) To determine compliance with the enclosed combustion device total HAP concentration limit specified in ยง 63.1281(d)(1)(i)(B), the owner or operator shall use either Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; or ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2004) (incorporated by reference as specified in ยง 63.14), as specified in ยง 63.772(a)(1)(ii), to measure either TOC (minus methane and ethane) or total HAP. Alternatively, any other method or data that have been validated according to Method 301 of appendix A of this part, may be used. The following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration, corrected to 3 percent oxygen:

(A) The minimum sampling time for each run shall be 1 hour in which either an integrated sample or a minimum of four grab samples shall be taken. If grab sampling is used, then the samples shall be taken at approximately equal intervals in time, such as 15-minute intervals during the run.
