
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1282 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Compliance demonstration with percent reduction or emission limit performance requirements-condensers.

(f)This paragraph applies to the demonstration of compliance with the performance requirements specified in § 63.1281(d)(1)(ii), (e)(3) or (f)(1) for condensers. Compliance shall be demonstrated using the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall establish a site-specific condenser performance curve according to the procedures specified in § 63.1283(d)(5)(ii). For sources required to meet the BTEX limit in accordance with § 63.1281(e) or (f)(1) the owner or operator shall identify the minimum percent reduction necessary to meet the BTEX limit.

(2) Compliance with the percent reduction requirement in § 63.1281(d)(1)(ii) or (e)(3) shall be demonstrated by the procedures in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator must calculate the daily average condenser outlet temperature in accordance with § 63.1283(d)(4).

(ii) The owner or operator shall determine the condenser efficiency for the current operating day using the daily average condenser outlet temperature calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section and the condenser performance curve established in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(iii) Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii)(A), (B), and (D) of this section, at the end of each operating day the owner or operator shall calculate the 30-day average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction, as appropriate, from the condenser efficiencies as determined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section for the preceding 30 operating days. If the owner or operator uses a combination of process modifications and a condenser in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1281(e), the 30-day average HAP emission, or BTEX, emission reduction, shall be calculated using the emission reduction achieved through process modifications and the condenser efficiency as determined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, both for the preceding 30 operating days.

(A) After the compliance date specified in § 63.1270(d), an owner or operator of a facility that stores natural gas that has less than 30 days of data for determining the average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction, as appropriate, shall calculate the cumulative average at the end of the withdrawal season, each season, until 30 days of condenser operating data are accumulated. For a facility that does not store natural gas, the owner or operator that has less than 30 days of data for determining average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction, as appropriate, shall calculate the cumulative average at the end of the calendar year, each year, until 30 days of condenser operating data are accumulated.

(B) After the compliance date specified in § 63.1270(d), for an owner or operator that has less than 30 days of data for determining the average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction, as appropriate, compliance is achieved if the average HAP, or BTEX, emission reduction, as appropriate, calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(iii)(A) of this section is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent or is equal to or greater than the minimum percent reduction necessary to meet the BTEX emission limit as determined in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(C) For the purposes of this subpart, a withdrawal season begins the first time gas is withdrawn from the storage field after July 1 of the calendar year and ends on June 30 of the next calendar year.

(D) Glycol dehydration units that are operated continuously have the option of complying with the requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.772(g).

(3) Compliance is achieved based on the applicable criteria in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) For sources meeting the HAP emission reduction specified in § 63.1281(d)(1)(ii) or (e)(3) if the average HAP emission reduction calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent.

(ii) For sources required to meet the BTEX limit under § 63.1281(e)(3) or (f)(1), compliance is achieved if the average BTEX emission reduction calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section is equal to or greater than the minimum percent reduction identified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section.
