
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### ยง 63.1282 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Performance testing for combustion control devices-manufacturers' performance test.

(g)(1) This paragraph (g) applies to the performance testing of a combustion control device conducted by the device manufacturer. The manufacturer shall demonstrate that a specific model of control device achieves the performance requirements in (g)(7) of this section by conducting a performance test as specified in paragraphs (g)(2) through (6) of this section.

(2) Performance testing shall consist of three one-hour (or longer) test runs for each of the four following firing rate settings making a total of 12 test runs per test. Propene (propylene) gas shall be used for the testing fuel. All fuel analyses shall be performed by an independent third-party laboratory (not affiliated with the control device manufacturer or fuel supplier).

(i) 90-100 percent of maximum design rate (fixed rate).

(ii) 70-100-70 percent (ramp up, ramp down). Begin the test at 70 percent of the maximum design rate. During the first 5 minutes, incrementally ramp the firing rate to 100 percent of the maximum design rate. Hold at 100 percent for 5 minutes. In the 10-15 minute time range, incrementally ramp back down to 70 percent of the maximum design rate. Repeat three more times for a total of 60 minutes of sampling.

(iii) 30-70-30 percent (ramp up, ramp down). Begin the test at 30 percent of the maximum design rate. During the first 5 minutes, incrementally ramp the firing rate to 70 percent of the maximum design rate. Hold at 70 percent for 5 minutes. In the 10-15 minute time range, incrementally ramp back down to 30 percent of the maximum design rate. Repeat three more times for a total of 60 minutes of sampling.

(iv) 0-30-0 percent (ramp up, ramp down). Begin the test at 0 percent of the maximum design rate. During the first 5 minutes, incrementally ramp the firing rate to 30 percent of the maximum design rate. Hold at 30 percent for 5 minutes. In the 10-15 minute time range, incrementally ramp back down to 0 percent of the maximum design rate. Repeat three more times for a total of 60 minutes of sampling.

(3) All models employing multiple enclosures shall be tested simultaneously and with all burners operational. Results shall be reported for each enclosure individually and for the average of the emissions from all interconnected combustion enclosures/chambers. Control device operating data shall be collected continuously throughout the performance test using an electronic Data Acquisition System and strip chart. Data shall be submitted with the test report in accordance with paragraph (g)(8)(iii) of this section.

(4) Inlet testing shall be conducted as specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The inlet gas flow metering system shall be located in accordance with Method 2A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, (or other approved procedure) to measure inlet gas flowrate at the control device inlet location. The fitting for filling fuel sample containers shall be located a minimum of 8 pipe diameters upstream of any inlet gas flow monitoring meter.

(ii) Inlet gas flowrate shall be determined using Method 2A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1. Record the start and stop reading for each 60-minute THC test. Record the inlet gas pressure and temperature at 5-minute intervals throughout each 60-minute THC test.

(iii) Inlet gas sampling shall be conducted in accordance with the criteria in paragraphs (g)(4)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) At the inlet gas sampling location, securely connect a Silonite-coated stainless steel evacuated canister fitted with a flow controller sufficient to fill the canister over a 3 hour period. Filling shall be conducted as specified in the following:
