
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1282 Test methods, compliance procedures, and compliance demonstrations.
####### 4

() The GC-TCD calibration procedure in Method 3C, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, shall be modified by using EPAAlt-045 as follows: For the initial calibration, triplicate injections of any single concentration must agree within 5 percent of their mean to be valid. The calibration response factor for a single concentration re-check must be within 10 percent of the original calibration response factor for that concentration. If this criterion is not met, the initial calibration using at least three concentration levels shall be repeated.

(B) Report the molecular weight of: O, CO, methane (CH4), and Nand include in the test report submitted under § 63.775(d)(iii). Moisture shall be determined using Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A. Traverse both ports with the Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, sampling train during each test run. Ambient air shall not be introduced into the Method 3C, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, integrated bag sample during the port change.

(iii) Carbon monoxide shall be determined using Method 10, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A or ASTM D6522-00 (Reapproved 2005) (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14). The test shall be run at the same time and with the sample points used for the EPA Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, testing. An instrument range of 0-10 per million by volume-dry (ppmvd) shall be used.

(iv) Visible emissions shall be determined using Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A. The test shall be performed continuously during each test run. A digital color photograph of the exhaust point, taken from the position of the observer and annotated with date and time, will be taken once per test run and the four photos included in the test report.

(v) Excess air shall be determined using resultant data from the EPA Method 3C tests and EPA Method 3B, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, equation 3B-1 or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Part 10 (manual portion only) (incorporated by reference as specified in § 63.14).

(6) Total hydrocarbons (THC) shall be determined as specified by the following criteria:

(i) Conduct THC sampling using Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, except the option for locating the probe in the center 10 percent of the stack shall not be allowed. The THC probe must be traversed to 16.7 percent, 50 percent, and 83.3 percent of the stack diameter during the test run.

(ii) A valid test shall consist of three Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, tests, each no less than 60 minutes in duration.

(iii) A 0-10 parts per million by volume-wet (ppmvw) (as propane) measurement range is preferred; as an alternative a 0-30 ppmvw (as carbon) measurement range may be used.

(iv) Calibration gases will be propane in air and be certified through EPA Protocol 1-"EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards," September 1997, as amended August 25, 1999, EPA-600/R-97/121 (or more recent if updated since 1999).

(v) THC measurements shall be reported in terms of ppmvw as propane.

(vi) THC results shall be corrected to 3 percent CO, as measured by Method 3C, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A.

(vii) Subtraction of methane/ethane from the THC data is not allowed in determining results.

(7) Performance test criteria:

(i) The control device model tested must meet the criteria in paragraphs (g)(7)(i)(A) through (C) of this section:

(A) Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, results under paragraph (g)(5)(v) of this section with no indication of visible emissions, and

(B) Average Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, results under paragraph (g)(6) of this section equal to or less than 10.0 ppmvw THC as propane corrected to 3.0 percent CO, and

(C) Average CO emissions determined under paragraph (g)(5)(iv) of this section equal to or less than 10 parts ppmvd, corrected to 3.0 percent CO.

(D) Excess combustion air shall be equal to or greater than 150 percent.

(ii) The manufacturer shall determine a maximum inlet gas flowrate which shall not be exceeded for each control device model to achieve the criteria in paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section.

(iii) A control device meeting the criteria in paragraph (g)(7)(i)(A) through (C) of this section will have demonstrated a destruction efficiency of 95.0 percent for HAP regulated under this subpart.

(8) The owner or operator of a combustion control device model tested under this section shall submit the information listed in paragraphs (g)(8)(i) through (iii) in the test report required under § 63.775(d)(1)(iii).

(i) Full schematic of the control device and dimensions of the device components.

(ii) Design net heating value (minimum and maximum) of the device.

(iii) Test fuel gas flow range (in both mass and volume). Include the minimum and maximum allowable inlet gas flowrate.

(iv) Air/stream injection/assist ranges, if used.

(v) The test parameter ranges listed in paragraphs (g)(8)(v)(A) through (O) of this section, as applicable for the tested model.

(A) Fuel gas delivery pressure and temperature.

(B) Fuel gas moisture range.

(C) Purge gas usage range.

(D) Condensate (liquid fuel) separation range.

(E) Combustion zone temperature range. This is required for all devices that measure this parameter.

(F) Excess combustion air range.

(G) Flame arrestor(s).

(H) Burner manifold pressure.

(I) Pilot flame sensor.

(J) Pilot flame design fuel and fuel usage.

(K) Tip velocity range.

(L) Momentum flux ratio.

(M) Exit temperature range.

(N) Exit flowrate.

(O) Wind velocity and direction.

(vi) The test report shall include all calibration quality assurance/quality control data, calibration gas values, gas cylinder certification, and strip charts annotated with test times and calibration values.
