
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1283 Inspection and monitoring requirements.
####### Control device monitoring requirements.

(d)(1) For each control device except as provided for in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (d)(3) through (7) of this section. Owners or operators that install and operate a flare in accordance with § 63.1281(d)(1)(iii) or (f)(1)(iii) are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(4) and (5) of this section. The continuous monitoring system shall be designed and operated so that a determination can be made on whether the control device is achieving the applicable performance requirements of § 63.1281(d), (e)(3), or (f)(1). Each continuous parameter monitoring system shall meet the following specifications and requirements:

(i) Each continuous parameter monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every hour and record either:

(A) Each measured data value; or

(B) Each block average value for each 1-hour period or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values.

(ii) A site-specific monitoring plan must be prepared that addresses the monitoring system design, data collection, and the quality assurance and quality control elements outlined in paragraph (d) of this section and in § 63.8(d). Each CPMS must be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained in accordance with the procedures in your approved site-specific monitoring plan. Using the process described in § 63.8(f)(4), you may request approval of monitoring system quality assurance and quality control procedures alternative to those specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(A) The performance criteria and design specifications for the monitoring system equipment, including the sample interface, detector signal analyzer, and data acquisition and calculations;

(B) Sampling interface (e.g., thermocouple) location such that the monitoring system will provide representative measurements;

(C) Equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures;

(D) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with provisions in § 63.8(c)(1) and (c)(3); and

(E) Ongoing reporting and recordkeeping procedures in accordance with provisions in § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(iii) The owner or operator must conduct the CPMS equipment performance checks, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures specified in the site-specific monitoring plan at least once every 12 months.

(iv) The owner or operator must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with the site-specific monitoring plan.

(2) An owner or operator is exempted from the monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(3) through (7) of this section for the following types of control devices:

(i) Except for control devices for small glycol dehydration units, a boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with the primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel;

(ii) Except for control devices for small glycol dehydration units, a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity equal to or greater than 44 megawatts.

(3) The owner or operator shall install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a device equipped with a continuous recorder to measure the values of operating parameters appropriate for the control device as specified in either paragraph (d)(3)(i), (d)(3)(ii), or (d)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) A continuous monitoring system that measures the following operating parameters as applicable:

(A) For a thermal vapor incinerator that demonstrates during the performance test conducted under § 63.1282(d) that combustion zone temperature is an accurate indicator of performance, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The monitoring device shall have a minimum accuracy of +/-2 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C, or +/-2.5 &#xB0;C, whichever value is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a location representative of the combustion zone temperature.

(B) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device shall be capable of monitoring temperatures at two locations and have a minimum accuracy of +/-2 percent of the temperatures being monitored in &#xB0;C, or +/-2.5 &#xB0;C, whichever value is greater. One temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed inlet and a second temperature sensor shall be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the catalyst bed outlet.

(C) For a flare, a heat sensing monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder that indicates the continuous ignition of the pilot flame.

(D) For a boiler or process heater, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The temperature monitoring device shall have a minimum accuracy of +/-2 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C, or +/-2.5 &#xB0;C, whichever value is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a location representative of the combustion zone temperature.

(E) For a condenser, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The temperature monitoring device shall have a minimum accuracy of +/-2 percent of the temperature being monitored in &#xB0;C, or +/-2.5 &#xB0;C, whichever value is greater. The temperature sensor shall be installed at a location in the exhaust vent stream from the condenser.

(F) For a regenerative-type carbon adsorption system:
