
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1285 Reporting requirements.

(a) The reporting provisions of subpart A, of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of facilities subject to this subpart are listed in Table 2 of this subpart.

(b) Each owner or operator of a facility subject to this subpart shall submit the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(1) The initial notifications required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) shall be submitted as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the initial notification shall be submitted by 1 year after an affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by June 17, 2000, whichever is later. Affected sources that are major sources on or before June 17, 2000 and plan to be area sources by June 17, 2002 shall include in this notification a brief, nonbinding description of a schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.

(ii) An affected source identified under § 63.1270(d)(3) shall submit an initial notification required for existing affected sources under § 63.9(b)(2) within 1 year after the affected source becomes subject to the provisions of this subpart or by October 15, 2013, whichever is later. An affected source identified under § 63.1270(d)(3) that plans to be an area source by October 15, 2015, shall include in this notification a brief, nonbinding description of a schedule for the action(s) that are planned to achieve area source status.

(2) The date of the performance evaluation as specified in § 63.8(e)(2), required only if the owner or operator is requested by the Administrator to conduct a performance evaluation for a continuous monitoring system. A separate notification of the performance evaluation is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) The planned date of a performance test at least 60 days before the test in accordance with § 63.7(b). Unless requested by the Administrator, a site-specific test plan is not required by this subpart. If requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator must also submit the site-specific test plan required by § 63.7(c) with the notification of the performance test. A separate notification of the performance test is not required if it is included in the initial notification submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) A Notification of Compliance Status Report as described in paragraph (d) of this section;

(5) Periodic Reports as described in paragraph (e) of this section; and

(6) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the Periodic Report specified in paragraph (e) of this section shall include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1274(h), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.

(7) [Reserved]

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Each owner or operator of a source subject to this subpart shall submit a Notification of Compliance Status Report as required under § 63.9(h) within 180 days after the compliance date specified in § 63.1270(d). In addition to the information required under § 63.9(h), the Notification of Compliance Status Report shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section. This information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination of the three. If all of the information required under this paragraph have been submitted at any time prior to 180 days after the applicable compliance dates specified in § 63.1270(d), a separate Notification of Compliance Status Report is not required. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (12) of this section at different times, and/or different submittals, subsequent submittals may refer to previous submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information.

(1) If a closed-vent system and a control device other than a flare are used to comply with § 63.1274, the owner or operator shall submit the information in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section and the information in either paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The condenser design analysis documentation specified in § 63.1282(d)(4) of this subpart if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design analysis; or
