
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From Natural Gas Transmission and Storage Facilities
###### § 63.1283 Inspection and monitoring requirements.
####### 2

() A heat sensing monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder that indicates the continuous ignition of the pilot flame.

(ii) A continuous monitoring system that measures the concentration level of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream from the control device using an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The monitor must meet the requirements of Performance Specification 8 or 9 of appendix B of 40 CFR part 60 and must be installed, calibrated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(iii) A continuous monitoring system that measures alternative operating parameters other than those specified in paragraph (d)(3)(i) or (d)(3)(ii) of this section upon approval of the Administrator as specified in § 63.8(f)(1) through (5).

(4) Using the data recorded by the monitoring system, except for inlet gas flowrate, the owner or operator must calculate the daily average value for each monitored operating parameter for each operating day. If the emissions unit operation is continuous, the operating day is a 24-hour period. If the emissions unit operation is not continuous, the operating day is the total number of hours of control device operation per 24-hour period. Valid data points must be available for 75 percent of the operating hours in an operating day to compute the daily average.

(5) For each operating parameter monitored in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section for all control devices, and when condensers are installed, the owner or operator shall also comply with paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section for condensers.

(i) The owner or operator shall establish a minimum operating parameter value or a maximum operating parameter value, as appropriate for the control device, to define the conditions at which the control device must be operated to continuously achieve the applicable performance requirements of § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1). Each minimum or maximum operating parameter value shall be established as follows:

(A) If the owner or operator conducts performance tests in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d)(3) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1), then the minimum operating parameter value or the maximum operating parameter value shall be established based on values measured during the performance test and supplemented, as necessary, by a condenser design analysis or control device manufacturer's recommendations or a combination of both.

(B) If the owner or operator uses a condenser design analysis in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d)(4) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1), then the minimum operating parameter value or the maximum operating parameter value shall be established based on the condenser design analysis and may be supplemented by the condenser manufacturer's recommendations.

(C) If the owner or operator operates a control device where the performance test requirement was met under § 63.1282(g) to demonstrate that the control device achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii) or (f)(1), then the maximum inlet gas flowrate shall be established based on the performance test and supplemented, as necessary, by the manufacturer recommendations.

(ii) The owner or operator shall establish a condenser performance curve showing the relationship between condenser outlet temperature and condenser control efficiency. The curve shall be established as follows:

(A) If the owner or operator conducts a performance test in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d)(3) to demonstrate that the condenser achieves the applicable performance requirements in § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1), then the condenser performance curve shall be based on values measured during the performance test and supplemented as necessary by control device design analysis, or control device manufacturer's recommendations, or a combination or both.

(B) If the owner or operator uses a control device design analysis in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1282(d)(4)(i) to demonstrate that the condenser achieves the applicable performance requirements specified in § 63.1281(d)(1), (e)(3)(ii), or (f)(1), then the condenser performance curve shall be based on the condenser design analysis and may be supplemented by the control device manufacturer's recommendations.

(C) As an alternative to paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(B) of this section, the owner or operator may elect to use the procedures documented in the GRI report entitled, "Atmospheric Rich/Lean Method for Determining Glycol Dehydrator Emissions" (GRI-95/0368.1) as inputs for the model GRI-GLYCalc, Version 3.0 or higher, to generate a condenser performance curve.

(6) An excursion for a given control device is determined to have occurred when the monitoring data or lack of monitoring data result in any one of the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(v) of this section being met. When multiple operating parameters are monitored for the same control device and during the same operating day, and more than one of these operating parameters meets an excursion criterion specified in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (d)(6)(v) of this section, then a single excursion is determined to have occurred for the control device for that operating day.

(i) An excursion occurs when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit) established for the operating parameter in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(5)(i) of this section.

(ii) For sources meeting § 63.1281(d)(1)(ii), an excursion occurs when average condenser efficiency calculated according to the requirements specified in § 63.1282(f)(2)(iii) is less than 95.0 percent, as specified in § 63.1282(f)(3). For sources meeting § 63.1281(f)(1), an excursion occurs when the 30-day average condenser efficiency calculated according to the requirements of § 63.1282(f)(2)(iii) is less than the identified 30-day required percent reduction.

(iii) An excursion occurs when the monitoring data are not available for at least 75 percent of the operating hours in a day.

(iv) If the closed-vent system contains one or more bypass devices that could be used to divert all or a portion of the gases, vapors, or fumes from entering the control device, an excursion occurs when:

(A) For each bypass line subject to § 63.1281(c)(3)(i)(A) the flow indicator indicates that flow has been detected and that the stream has been diverted away from the control device to the atmosphere.

(B) For each bypass line subject to § 63.1281(c)(3)(i)(B), if the seal or closure mechanism has been broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, the key for the lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, or the car-seal has broken.

(v) For control device whose model is tested under § 63.1282(g) an excursion occurs when:

(A) The inlet gas flowrate exceeds the maximum established during the test conducted under § 63.1282(g).

(B) Failure of the quarterly visible emissions test conducted under § 63.1282(h)(3) occurs.

(7) For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed to have failed to have applied control in a manner that achieves the required operating parameter limits. Failure to achieve the required operating parameter limits is a violation of this standard.

(8) [Reserved]

(9) Nothing in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(8) of this section shall be construed to allow or excuse a monitoring parameter excursion caused by any activity that violates other applicable provisions of this subpart.
