
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart III - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production
###### ยง 63.1294 Standards for slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production - diisocyanate emissions.
####### Transfer pumps in diisocyanate service.

(b)Each transfer pump in diisocyanate service shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) The pump shall be a sealless pump; or

(2) The pump shall be a submerged pump system meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The pump shall be completely immersed in bis(2-ethylhexyl)phthalate (DEHP, CAS #118-81-7), 2(methyloctyl)phthalate (DINP, CAS #68515-48-0), or another neutral oil.

(ii) The pump shall be visually monitored weekly to detect leaks,

(iii) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired in accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(A) The leak shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected.

(B) A first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 calendar days after the leak is detected. First attempts at repair include, but are not limited to, the following practices where practicable:
