
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart III - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production
###### § 63.1306 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of compliance status.

(c)Each affected source shall submit a notification of compliance status report no later than 180 days after the compliance date. For slabstock affected sources, this report shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. This report shall contain the information listed in paragraph (c)(4) of this section for molded foam processes and in paragraph (c)(5) of this section for rebond foam processes.

(1) A list of diisocyanate storage vessels, along with a record of the type of control utilized for each storage vessel.

(2) For transfer pumps in diisocyanate service, a record of the type of control utilized for each transfer pump.

(3) A statement that the slabstock foam affected source is in compliance with §§ 63.1297 and 63.1298, or a statement that slabstock foam processes at an affected source are in compliance with §§ 63.1297 and 63.1298.

(4) A statement that the molded foam affected source is in compliance with § 63.1300, or a statement that molded foam processes at an affected source are in compliance with § 63.1300.

(5) A statement that the rebond foam affected source is in compliance with § 63.1301, or that rebond processes at an affected source are in compliance with § 63.1301.
