
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart III - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production
###### § 63.1307 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Equipment leak records.

(b)(1) A list of components in diisocyanate service.

(2) For transfer pumps in diisocyanate service, a record of the type of control utilized for each transfer pump and the date of installation.

(3) When a leak is detected as specified in §§ 63.1294(b)(2)(ii) and 63.1294(c), the requirements listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section apply:

(i) Leaking equipment shall be identified in accordance with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) A readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.

(B) The identification on equipment may be removed after it has been repaired.

(ii) The information in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) through (G) shall be recorded for leaking components.

(A) The operator identification number and the equipment identification number.

(B) The date the leak was detected and the dates of each attempt to repair the leak.

(C) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(D) The words "repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(E) The expected date of the successful repair of the leak if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days.

(F) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(G) The date the identification is removed.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.1297 shall maintain a product data sheet for each ABA used which includes the HAP content, in kg of HAP/kg solids (lb HAP/lb solids).

(d) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.1298 of this subpart shall maintain a product data sheet for each equipment cleaner used which includes the HAP content, in kg of HAP/kg solids (lb HAP/lb solids).

(e) The owner or operator of an affected source following the compliance methods in § 63.1308(b)(1) shall maintain records of each use of a vapor return line during unloading, of any leaks detected during unloading, and of repairs of leaks detected during unloading.

(f) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.1300 or § 63.1301 of this subpart shall maintain a product data sheet for each compound other than diisocyanates used to flush the mixhead and associated piping during periods of startup or maintenance, which includes the HAP content, in kg of HAP/kg solids (lb HAP/lb solids), of each solvent other than diisocyanates used to flush the mixhead and associated piping during periods of startup or maintenance.

(g) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to § 63.1300 or § 63.1301 of this subpart shall maintain a product data sheet for each mold release agent used that includes the HAP content, in kg of HAP/kg solids (lb HAP/lb solids), of each mold release agent.
