
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart III - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production
###### ยง 63.1307 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Storage vessel records.

(a)(1) A list of diisocyanate storage vessels, along with a record of the type of control utilized for each storage vessel.

(2) For storage vessels complying through the use of a carbon adsorption system, paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii), and paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) Records of dates and times when the carbon adsorption system is monitored for carbon breakthrough and the monitoring device reading, when the device is monitored in accordance with ยง 63.1303(a); or

(ii) For affected sources monitoring at an interval no greater than 20 percent of the carbon replacement interval, in accordance with ยง 63.1303(a)(2), the records listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(iii) Date when the existing carbon in the carbon adsorption system is replaced with fresh carbon.

(3) For storage vessels complying through the use of a vapor return line, paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Dates and times when each unloading event occurs and each inspection of the vapor return line for leaks occurs.

(ii) Records of dates and times when a leak is detected in the vapor return line.

(iii) Records of dates and times when a leak is repaired.
