
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1310 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Primary product determination and applicability.

(f)An owner or operator of a process unit that produces or plans to produce a thermoplastic product shall determine if the process unit is subject to this subpart in accordance with this paragraph. The owner or operator shall initially determine whether a process unit is designated as a TPPU and subject to the provisions of this subpart in accordance with either paragraph (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section. The owner or operator of a flexible operation unit that was not initially designated as a TPPU, but in which a thermoplastic product is produced, shall conduct an annual re-determination of the applicability of this subpart in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section. Owners or operators that anticipate the production of a thermoplastic product in a process unit that was not initially designated as a TPPU, and in which no thermoplastic products are currently produced, shall determine if the process unit is subject to this subpart in accordance with paragraph (f)(4) of this section. Paragraphs (f)(3) and (f)(5) through (f)(7) of this section discuss compliance only for flexible operation units. Other paragraphs apply to all process units, including flexible operation units, unless otherwise noted. Paragraph (f)(8) of this section contains reporting requirements associated with the applicability determinations. Paragraphs (f)(9) and (f)(10) of this section describe criteria for removing the TPPU designation from a process unit.
