
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1310 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Annual applicability determination for non-TPPUs that have produced a thermoplastic product.

(3)Once per year beginning September 12, 2001, the owner or operator of each flexible operation unit that is not designated as a TPPU, but that has produced a thermoplastic product at any time in the preceding 5-year period or since the date that the unit began production of any product, whichever is shorter, shall perform the evaluation described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section. However, an owner or operator that does not intend to produce any thermoplastic product in the future, in accordance with paragraph (f)(9) of this section, is not required to perform the evaluation described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (f)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) For each product produced in the flexible operation unit, the owner or operator shall calculate the percentage of total operating time over which the product was produced during the preceding 5-year period.

(ii) The owner or operator shall identify the primary product as the product with the highest percentage of total operating time for the preceding 5-year period.

(iii) If the primary product identified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii) is a thermoplastic product, the flexible operation unit shall be designated as a TPPU. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator no later than 45 days after determining that the flexible operation unit is a TPPU, and shall comply with the requirements of this subpart in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section for the flexible operation unit.
