
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1310 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Redetermination of applicability to TPPUs that are flexible operation units.

(10)Whenever changes in production occur that could reasonably be expected to change the primary product of a TPPU that is operating as a flexible operation unit from a thermoplastic product to a product that would make the process unit subject to another subpart of this part, the owner or operator shall re-evaluate the status of the process unit as a TPPU in accordance with paragraphs (f)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For each product produced in the flexible operation unit, the owner or operator shall calculate the percentage of total operating time in which the product was produced for the preceding five-year period, or since the date that the process unit began production of any product, whichever is shorter.

(ii) The owner or operator shall identify the primary product as the product with the highest percentage of total operating time for the period.

(iii) If the conditions in (f)(10)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section are met, the flexible operation unit shall no longer be designated as a TPPU and shall no longer be subject to the provisions of this subpart after the date that the process unit is required to be in compliance with the provisions of the other subpart of this part to which it is subject. If the conditions in paragraphs (f)(10)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section are not met, the flexible operation unit shall continue to be considered a TPPU and subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(A) The product identified in (f)(10)(ii) of this section is not a thermoplastic product; and

(B) The production of the product identified in (f)(10)(ii) of this section is subject to another subpart of this part; and

(C) The owner or operator submits a notification to the Administrator of the pending change in applicability.
