
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1310 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Reporting requirements.

(8)When it is determined that a process unit is a TPPU and subject to the requirements of this subpart, the Notification of Compliance Status required by ยง 63.1335(e)(5) shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(8)(i) and (f)(8)(ii) of this section, as applicable. If it is determined that the process unit is not subject to this subpart, the owner or operator shall either retain all information, data, and analysis used to document the basis for the determination that the primary product is not a thermoplastic product, or, when requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that the process unit is not subject to this subpart.

(i) If the TPPU manufactures only one thermoplastic product, identification of that thermoplastic product.

(ii) If the TPPU is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the information specified in paragraphs (f)(8)(ii)(A) through (f)(8)(ii)(D) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted.

(A) If a primary product could be determined, identification of the primary product.

(B) Identification of which compliance option, either paragraph (f)(6)(i) or (f)(6)(ii) of this section, has been selected by the owner or operator.

(C) If the option to establish separate parameter monitoring levels for each product in paragraph (f)(7)(i) of this section is selected, the identification of each product and the corresponding parameter monitoring level.

(D) If the option to establish a single parameter monitor level in paragraph (f)(7)(ii) of this section is selected, the parameter monitoring level for each parameter.
