
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1311 Compliance dates and relationship of this subpart to existing applicable rules.

(a) Affected sources are required to achieve compliance on or before the dates specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Paragraph (e) of this section provides information on requesting compliance extensions. Paragraphs (f) through (n) of this section discuss the relationship of this subpart to subpart A of this part and to other applicable rules. Where an override of another authority of the Act is indicated in this subpart, only compliance with the provisions of this subpart is required. Paragraph (o) of this section specifies the meaning of time periods.

(b) New affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after March 29, 1995 shall be in compliance with this subpart (except § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii)) upon initial start-up or by June 19, 2000, whichever is later, except that new affected sources whose primary product, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1310(f), is PET shall be in compliance with § 63.1331 (except § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii)) upon initial start-up or August 6, 2002, whichever is later. New affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after March 25, 1995, but on or before January 9, 2012, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii) no later than March 27, 2017. New affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after January 9, 2012, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii) upon initial startup or by March 27, 2014, whichever is later.

(c) Existing affected sources shall be in compliance with this subpart (except for § 63.1331 for which compliance is covered by paragraph (d) of this section) no later than June 19, 2001, as provided in § 63.6(c), unless an extension has been granted as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, except that the compliance date for the provisions contained in § 63.1329 is extended to March 27, 2014, for existing affected sources whose primary product, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1310(f), is PET using a continuous terephthalic acid high viscosity multiple end finisher process.

(d) Except as provided for in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section, existing affected sources shall be in compliance with § 63.1331 no later than June 19, 2001, unless an extension has been granted pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section.

(1) Compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 shall occur no later than February 27, 1998, for any compressor meeting one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section, if the work can be accomplished without a process unit shutdown:

(i) The seal system will be replaced;

(ii) A barrier fluid system will be installed;

(iii) A new barrier fluid will be utilized which requires changes to the existing barrier fluid system; or

(iv) The compressor will be modified to permit connecting the compressor to a fuel gas system or a closed vent system or modified so that emissions from the compressor can be routed to a process.

(2) Compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 shall occur no later than March 12, 1998 for any compressor meeting all the criteria in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(iv) of this section:

(i) The compressor meets one or more of the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (d)(1)(iv) of this section;

(ii) The work can be accomplished without a process unit shutdown ;

(iii) The additional time is actually necessary due to the unavailability of parts beyond the control of the owner or operator; and

(iv) The owner or operator submits the request for a compliance extension to the appropriate Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Regional Office at the address listed in § 63.13 no later than June 16, 1997. The request for a compliance extension shall contain the information specified in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D). Unless the EPA Regional Office objects to the request for a compliance extension within 30 days after receipt of the request, the request shall be deemed approved.

(3) If compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 cannot reasonably be achieved without a process unit shutdown, the owner or operator shall achieve compliance no later than September 12, 1998. The owner or operator who elects to use this provision shall submit a request for a compliance extension in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section.

(4) Compliance with the compressor provisions of § 63.164 shall occur not later than September 12, 1999 for any compressor meeting one or more of the criteria in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (d)(4)(iii) of this section. The owner or operator who elects to use these provisions shall submit a request for an extension of compliance in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) Compliance cannot be achieved without replacing the compressor;

(ii) Compliance cannot be achieved without recasting the distance piece; or

(iii) Design modifications are required to connect to a closed-vent or recovery system.

(5) Compliance with the provisions of § 63.170 shall occur no later than June 19, 2001.

(6) Notwithstanding paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section, existing affected sources whose primary product, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1310(f), is PET shall be in compliance with § 63.1331 (except § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii)) no later than August 6, 2002.

(7) Compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring provisions of § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii) shall occur no later than March 27, 2017.

(e) Pursuant to Section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing the existing affected source up to 1 additional year to comply with Section 112(d) standards. For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the permitting authority as part of the operating permit application or to the Administrator as a separate submittal or as part of the Precompliance Report. Requests for extensions shall be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, or as specified elsewhere in this subpart, except as provided in paragraph (e)(3) of this section. The dates specified in § 63.6(i) for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to this subpart.

(1) A request for an extension of compliance shall include the data described in § 63.6(i)(6)(i) (A),(B), and (D).

(2) The requirements in § 63.6(i)(8) through § 63.6(i)(14) shall govern the review and approval of requests for extensions of compliance with this subpart.

(3) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request after the date specified in paragraph (e) of this section, provided that the need for the compliance extension arose after that date, and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request shall include, in addition to the information specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a statement of the reasons additional time is needed and the date when the owner or operator first learned of the circumstances necessitating a request for compliance extension under this paragraph (e)(3).

(f) Table 1 of this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart.

(g)(1) After the compliance dates specified in this section, an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of subpart I of this part, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, said affected source shall no longer be subject to subpart I of this part.

(2) Said affected sources that elected to comply with subpart I of this part through a quality improvement program, as specified in § 63.175 or § 63.176 or both, may elect to continue these programs without interruption as a means of complying with this subpart. In other words, becoming subject to this subpart does not restart or reset the "compliance clock" as it relates to reduced burden earned through a quality improvement program.

(h) After the compliance dates specified in this section, a storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart and that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, said storage vessel shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.

(i)(1) Except as provided in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section, after the compliance dates specified in this section, affected sources producing PET using a continuous terephthalic acid process, producing PET using a continuous dimethyl terephthalate process, or producing polystyrene resin using a continuous process subject to this subpart that are also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD, are required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, said sources shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD.

(2) Existing affected sources producing PET using a continuous terephthalic acid high viscosity multiple end finisher process shall continue to be subject to 40 CFR 60.562-1(c)(2)(ii)(C). Once said affected source becomes subject to and achieves compliance with § 63.1329(c) of this subpart, said affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD.

(3) Existing affected sources producing PET using a continuous terephthalic acid process, but not using a continuous terephthalic acid high viscosity multiple end finisher process, that are subject to and complying with 40 CFR 60.562-1(c)(2)(ii)(B) shall continue to comply with said section. Existing affected sources producing PET using a continuous dimethyl terephthalic process that are subject to and complying with 40 CFR 60.562-1(c)(1)(ii)(B) shall continue to comply with said section.

(j) Owners or operators of affected sources subject to this subpart that are also subject to the provisions of subpart Q of this part shall comply with both subparts.

(k) After the compliance dates specified in this section, an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, said source shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV.

(l) After the compliance dates specified in this section, a distillation operation that is assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, the distillation operation shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart NNN.
