
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1312 Definitions.
####### Material recovery section

means, for PET plants, the equipment that recovers by-product methanol from any process section for use, reuse, or sale, or the equipment that separates materials containing by-product methanol from any process section for off-site purification or treatment with the intent to recover methanol for reuse. For polystyrene plants, material recovery section means the equipment that recovers unreacted styrene from any process section for use, reuse, or sale, or the equipment that separates materials containing unreacted styrene from any process section for off-site purification or treatment with the intent to recover styrene for reuse. Equipment used to store recovered materials (i.e., ethylene glycol, methanol, or styrene) is not included. Equipment designed to recover or separate materials from the polymer product is to be included in this process section, provided that at the time of initial compliance some of the unreacted or by-product material is recovered for return to the TPPU, or sale, or provided that some of the separated material is sent for off-site purification or treatment with the intent to recover the unreacted or by-product material for reuse. Otherwise, such equipment is to be assigned to one of the other process sections, as appropriate. If equipment is used to recover unreacted or by-product material and return it directly to the same piece of process equipment from which it was emitted, then that recovery equipment is considered part of the process section that contains the process equipment. On the other hand, if equipment is used to recover unreacted or by-product material and return it to a different piece of process equipment in the same process section, that recovery equipment is considered part of a material recovery section. Equipment used for the on-site recovery of ethylene glycol from PET plants, however, is not included in the material recovery section; such equipment is to be included in the polymerization reaction section. Equipment used for the on-site recovery of both ethylene glycol and any other materials from PET plants is not included in the material recovery section; this equipment is to be included in the polymerization reaction section. Such equipment includes both contact and non-contact condensers removing ethylene glycol from vapor streams coming out of polymerization vessels.
