
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1316 PET and polystyrene affected sources - emissions control provisions.

(a) The owner or operator of an affected source producing PET using a continuous process shall comply with paragraph (b) of this section. The owner or operator of an affected source producing polystyrene using a continuous process shall comply with paragraph (c) of this section. As specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, owners or operators shall comply with § 63.1315 for certain continuous process vents and with § 63.1321 for all batch process vents. The owner or operator of an affected source producing PET using a batch process or producing polystyrene using a batch process shall comply with § 63.1315 for continuous process vents and with § 63.1321 for batch process vents, instead of the provisions of §§ 63.1316 through 63.1320.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected source producing PET using a continuous process shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, as appropriate, and are not required to comply with the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD. Compliance can be based on either organic HAP or TOC.

(1) The owner or operator of an affected source producing PET using a continuous dimethyl terephthalate process shall comply with paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of an existing affected source with organic HAP emissions greater than 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product from continuous process vents in the collection of material recovery sections (i.e., methanol recovery) within the affected source shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A), (b)(1)(i)(B), or (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section. Emissions from continuous process vents in the collection of material recovery sections within the affected source shall be determined by the procedures specified in § 63.1318(b). The owner or operator of a new affected source shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1)(i)(A), (b)(1)(i)(B), or (b)(1)(i)(C) of this section.
