
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1315 Continuous process vents provisions.
####### 3

() Necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand.

(B) Comply with the provisions in § 63.1313(b)(1), as allowed under § 63.1313(b).

(ii) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a recovery device, the TRE index value for the combined vent stream shall be calculated at the exit of the last recovery device. The TRE shall be calculated during periods when one or more batch emission episodes are occurring that result in the highest organic HAP emission rate (in the combined vent stream that is being routed to the recovery device) that is achievable during the 6-month period that begins 3 months before and ends 3 months after the TRE calculation, without causing any of the situations described in paragraphs (a)(13)(ii)(A) through (C) to occur.

(A) Causing damage to equipment.

(B) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or

(C) Necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand.

(iii) If the combined vent stream described in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section meets the requirements in paragraphs (a)(13)(iii)(A), (B), and (C) of this section, the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for Group 1 process vents in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable. Performance tests for the combined vent stream shall be conducted at maximum operating conditions, as described in paragraph (a)(13)(i) of this section.

(A) The TRE index value of the combined stream is less than or equal to 1.0;

(B) The flow rate of the combined vent stream is greater than or equal to 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; and

(C) The total organic HAP concentration is greater than or equal to 50 parts per million by volume for the combined vent stream.

(iv) If the combined vent stream described in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section meets the requirements in paragraph (a)(13)(iv)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for Group 2 process vents in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as otherwise provided in this section, as applicable.

(A) The TRE index value of the combined vent stream is greater than 1.0;

(B) The flow rate of the combined vent stream is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute; or

(C) The total organic HAP concentration is less than 50 parts per million by volume for the combined vent stream.

(v) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous process vent, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in either paragraph (a)(13)(v)(A) or (a)(13)(v)(B) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 for Group 1 process vents; or

(B) The owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1322(e)(2) for batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams.

(14) If any gas stream that originates outside of an affected source that is subject to this subpart is normally conducted through the same final recovery device as any continuous process vent stream subject to this subpart, the owner or operator of the affected source with the combined vent stream shall comply with all requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 of subpart G of this part, except as otherwise noted in this section, as applicable.

(i) Instead of measuring the vent stream flow rate at the sampling site specified in § 63.115(b)(1), the sampling site for vent stream flow rate shall be prior to the final recovery device and prior to the point at which the gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart is introduced into the combined vent stream.

(ii) Instead of measuring total organic HAP or TOC concentrations at the sampling site specified in § 63.115(c)(1), the sampling site for total organic HAP or TOC concentration shall be prior to the final recovery device and prior to the point at which the gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart is introduced into the combined vent stream.

(iii) The efficiency of the final recovery device (determined according to paragraph (a)(14)(iv) of this section) shall be applied to the total organic HAP or TOC concentration measured at the sampling site described in paragraph (a)(14)(ii) of this section to determine the exit concentration. This exit concentration of total organic HAP or TOC shall then be used to perform the calculations outlined in § 63.115(d)(2)(iii) and § 63.115(d)(2)(iv), for the combined vent stream exiting the final recovery device.

(iv) The efficiency of the final recovery device is determined by measuring the total organic HAP or TOC concentration using Method 18 or 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, at the inlet to the final recovery device after the introduction of any gas stream that is not controlled under this subpart, and at the outlet of the final recovery device.

(15) When § 63.115(c)(3)(ii)(B) and (d)(2)(iv) and § 63.116(c)(3)(ii)(B) and (c)(4)(ii)(C) refer to Table 2 of subpart F of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 6 of this subpart for purposes of this subpart.

(16) The compliance date for continuous process vents subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1311.

(17) In § 63.116(a), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements in § 63.1333(e) shall apply.

(18) When a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), the correction to 3 percent oxygen is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the correction to 3 percent oxygen specified in § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(3)(iii) is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. Finally, when a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.113(a)(2), an owner or operator shall record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) corrected to 3 percent oxygen when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart. When supplemental combustion air is not used to combust the emissions, an owner or operator may record and report the outlet concentration required in § 63.117(a)(4)(ii) and (a)(4)(iv) on an uncorrected basis or corrected to 3 percent oxygen, for the purposes of this subpart.

(19) During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using the procedures specified in § 63.116, an owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit subject to an emission limit expressed as mass emissions per mass product may demonstrate compliance with the limit in accordance with paragraph (a)(19)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) Keep records establishing that the raw material introduced and product discharged rates were both zero.

(ii) Divide the organic HAP emission rate during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero according to § 63.1318(b)(1). Keep records of this calculation.

(iii) Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in § 63.113(a)(1) or (2) were maintained at the level established to meet the emission limit at maximum representative operating conditions.

(b) Owners or operators of existing affected sources producing MBS shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Comply with paragraph (a) of this section, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii).

(i) As specified in § 63.1312, Group 1 continuous process vents at MBS existing affected sources are those with a total resource effectiveness value less than or equal to 3.7.

(ii) When complying with this paragraph (b) and the term "TRE of 4.0" is used, or related terms indicating a TRE index value of 4.0, referred to in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, are used, the term "TRE of 6.7," shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart. The TRE range of 3.7 to 6.7 for continuous process vents at existing affected sources producing MBS corresponds to the TRE range of 1.0 to 4.0 for other continuous process vents, as it applies to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(2) Not allow organic HAP emissions from the collection of continuous process vents at the affected source to be greater than 0.000590 kg organic HAP/Mg of product. Compliance with this paragraph (b)(2) shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(b). During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(b), an owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit subject to an emission limit expressed as mass emissions per mass product may demonstrate compliance with the limit in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) Keep records establishing that the raw material introduced and product discharged rates were both zero.

(ii) Divide the organic HAP emission rate during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero according to § 63.1333(b). Keep records of this calculation.

(iii) Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in paragraph (b)(2) of this section were maintained at the level established to meet the emission limit at maximum representative operating conditions.

(c) Owners or operators of new affected sources producing SAN using a batch process shall comply with the applicable requirements in § 63.1321.

(d) Affected sources producing PET or polystyrene using a continuous process are subject to the emissions control provisions of § 63.1316, the monitoring provisions of § 63.1317, the testing and compliance demonstration provisions of § 63.1318, the recordkeeping provisions of § 63.1319, and the reporting provisions of § 63.1320. However, in some instances as specified in § 63.1316, select continuous process vents present at affected sources producing PET or polystyrene using a continuous process are subject to the provisions of this section.

(e) Owners or operators of affected sources producing ASA/AMSAN shall reduce organic HAP emissions from each continuous process vent, each batch process vent, and each aggregate batch vent stream by 98 weight-percent and shall comply with either paragraph (e)(1), (e)(2), or (e)(3), as appropriate. Where batch process vents or aggregate batch vent streams are combined with continuous process vents, the provisions of paragraph (a)(13) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this paragraph (e).

(1) For each continuous process vent, comply with paragraph (a) of this section as specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) For purpose of this section, each continuous process vent shall be considered to be a Group 1 continuous process vent and the owner or operator of that continuous process vent shall comply with the requirements for a Group 1 continuous process vent.

(ii) For purposes of this section, the group determination procedure required by § 63.115 shall not apply.

(2) For each batch process vent, comply with §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327 as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) For purpose of this section, each batch process vent shall be considered to be a Group 1 batch process vent and the owner or operator of that batch process vent shall comply with the requirements for a Group 1 batch process vent contained in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327, except that each batch process vent shall be controlled to reduce organic HAP emissions by 98 weight-percent.

(ii) For purposes of this section, the group determination procedure required by § 63.1323 shall not apply.

(3) For each aggregate batch vent stream, comply with §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327 as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) For purpose of this section, each aggregate batch vent stream shall be considered to be a Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream and the owner or operator of that aggregate batch vent stream shall comply with the requirements for a Group 1 aggregate batch vent stream contained in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327, except that each aggregate batch vent stream shall be controlled to reduce organic HAP emissions by 98 weight-percent.

(ii) For purposes of this section, the group determination procedure required by § 63.1323 shall not apply.
