
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1314 Storage vessel provisions.

(a) This section applies to each storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source, as determined by § 63.1310(g). Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 and 63.148 for those storage vessels, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(17) of this section for the purposes of this subpart.

(1) When the term "storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When the term "Group 1 storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When the term "Group 2 storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) When the emissions averaging provisions of § 63.150 are referred to in §§ 63.119 and 63.123, the emissions averaging provisions contained in § 63.1332 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When December 31, 1992, is referred to in § 63.119, March 29, 1995 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When April 22, 1994, is referred to in § 63.119, June 19, 2000 shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) Each owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with this paragraph (a)(7) instead of § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) for the purposes of this subpart. If the control device used to comply with § 63.119(e) is also used to comply with any of the requirements found in § 63.1315, § 63.1316, § 63.1322, or § 63.1330, the performance test required in or accepted by the applicable requirements of §§ 63.1315, 63.1316, 63.1322, and 63.1330 is acceptable for demonstrating compliance with § 63.119(e) for the purposes of this subpart. The owner or operator is not required to prepare a design evaluation for the control device as described in § 63.120(d)(1)(i), if the performance test meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) and (a)(7)(ii) of this section.

(i) The performance test demonstrates that the control device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency specified in § 63.119(e)(1) or § 63.119(e)(2), as applicable; and

(ii) The performance test is submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1335(e)(5).

(8) When the term "range" is used in §§ 63.120(d)(3), 63.120(d)(5), and 63.122(g)(2), the term "level" shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(9) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.120(d)(2) shall specify for which control devices the owner or operator has selected to follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.1334. For those control devices for which the owner or operator has selected to not follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.1334, the monitoring plan shall include a description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised), as specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i).

(10) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.122(b) shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1335(e)(5).

(11) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.120, 63.122, and 63.123, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(12) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.120 and 63.122, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(13) When other reports as required in § 63.152(d) are referred to in § 63.122, the reporting requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(7) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(14) When the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.151(b) are referred to in § 63.122, the owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart need not comply for the purposes of this subpart.

(15) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in § 63.121(a), the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(16) When § 63.119(a) requires compliance according to the schedule provisions in § 63.100, owners and operators of affected sources shall instead comply with the requirements in §§ 63.119(a)(1) through 63.119(a)(4) by the compliance date for storage vessels, which is specified in § 63.1311.

(17) In § 63.120(e)(1), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), the requirements of § 63.1333(e) shall apply.

(b) Owners or operators of Group 1 storage vessels that are assigned to a new affected source producing SAN using a continuous process shall control emissions to the levels indicated in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) For storage vessels with capacities greater than or equal to 2,271 cubic meters (m) containing a liquid mixture having a vapor pressure greater than or equal to 0.5 kilopascal (kPa) but less than 0.7 kPa, emissions shall be controlled by at least 90 percent relative to uncontrolled emissions.

(2) For storage vessels with capacities less than 151 mcontaining a liquid mixture having a vapor pressure greater than or equal to 10 kPa, emissions shall be controlled by at least 98 percent relative to uncontrolled emissions.

(3) For all other storage vessels designated as Group 1 storage vessels, emissions shall be controlled to the level designated in § 63.119.

(c) Owners or operators of Group 1 storage vessels that are assigned to a new or existing affected source producing ASA/AMSAN shall control emissions by at least 98 percent relative to uncontrolled emissions.

(d) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to storage vessels containing ethylene glycol at existing or new affected sources and storage vessels containing styrene at existing affected sources.
