
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1315 Continuous process vents provisions.

(a) For each continuous process vent located at an affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.113 through 63.118, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (19) of this section for the purposes of this subpart, except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(1) When the term "process vent" is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term "continuous process vent," and the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When the term "Group 1 process vent" is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term "Group 1 continuous process vent," and the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When the term "Group 2 process vent" is used in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, the term "Group 2 continuous process vent," and the definition of this term in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in § 63.113, apply the date March 29, 1995, for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When § 63.151(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.152(e), submission of an operating permit, are referred to in §§ 63.114(c) and 63.117(e), § 63.1335(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.1335(e)(8), submission of an operating permit, respectively, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.117 and 63.118, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(8) When the definition of excursion in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A) is referred to in § 63.118(f)(2), the definition of excursion in § 63.1334(f) of this subpart shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(9) When § 63.114(e) or § 63.117(f) specifies that an owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.152(b) in order to establish the parameter monitoring range, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the provisions of § 63.1335(e)(5) for purposes of reporting information related to establishment of the parameter monitoring level for purposes of this subpart. Further, the term "level" shall apply when the term "range" is used in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118.

(10) When reports of process changes are required under § 63.118(g), (h), (i), or (j), paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (a)(10)(iv) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, for the purposes of this subpart, paragraph (a)(10)(v) of this section applies, and § 63.118(k) does not apply to owners or operators of affected sources.

(i) For the purposes of this subpart, whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent to become a Group 1 continuous process vent, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the Group 1 provisions in §§ 63.113 through 63.118 in accordance with § 63.1310(i)(2)(ii) or (i)(2)(iii), as applicable.

(ii) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent with a TRE greater than 4.0 to become a Group 2 continuous process vent with a TRE less than 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.1311.

(iii) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute to become a Group 2 continuous process vent with a flow rate of 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.1311.

(iv) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 continuous process vent with an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume to become a Group 2 continuous process vent with an organic HAP concentration of 50 parts per million by volume or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report of the process change, and the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in § 63.113(d) by the dates specified in § 63.1311.

(v) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process change if one of the conditions listed in paragraphs (a)(10)(v)(A), (a)(10)(v)(B), (a)(10)(v)(C), or (a)(10)(v)(D) of this section is met.

(A) The process change does not meet the definition of a process change in § 63.115(e);

(B) The vent stream flow rate is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute;

(C) The organic HAP concentration of the vent stream is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is less than 50 parts per million by volume; or

(D) The TRE index value is recalculated according to § 63.115(e) and the recalculated value is greater than 4.0, or for the affected sources producing methyl methacrylate butadiene styrene resin the recalculated value is greater than 6.7.

(11) When the provisions of § 63.116(c)(3) and (c)(4) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(11)(i) and (a)(11)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(12) When § 63.118, periodic reporting and recordkeeping requirements, refers to § 63.152(f), the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.1335(d) shall apply for purposes of this subpart.

(13) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous process vent, the owner or operator of the affected source containing the combined vent stream shall comply with paragraph (a)(13)(i); with paragraph (a)(13)(ii) and with paragraph (a)(13)(iii) or (iv); or with paragraph (a)(13)(v) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device, the owner or operator of the affected source containing the combined vent stream shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(13)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.
