
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1316 PET and polystyrene affected sources - emissions control provisions.
####### 3

() Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in paragraph (b)(1)(ii)(A) of this section were maintained at the level established to meet the emission limit at maximum representative operating conditions.

(B) Comply with paragraph (b)(1)(v) of this section.

(iii) Continuous process vents not included in a material recovery section, as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, and not included in a polymerization reaction section, as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, shall comply with ยง 63.1315.

(iv) Batch process vents shall comply with ยง 63.1321.

(v) Comply with one of the following:

(A) Reduce the emissions in a combustion device to achieve 98 weight percent reduction or to achieve a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) on a dry basis, whichever is less stringent. If an owner or operator elects to comply with the 20 ppmv standard, the concentration shall include a correction to 3 percent oxygen only when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions;

(B) Combust the emissions in a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 150 million Btu/hr or greater by introducing the emissions into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater; or

(C) Combust the emissions in a flare that complies with the requirements of ยง 63.1333(e).

(2) The owner or operator of an affected source producing PET using a continuous terephthalic acid process shall comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) Limit organic HAP emissions from continuous process vents in the collection of raw material preparation sections within the affected source by complying with either paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.
