
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1316 PET and polystyrene affected sources - emissions control provisions.
####### 3

() Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section were maintained at the level established to meet the emission limit at maximum representative operating conditions.

(B) Comply with paragraph (b)(2)(v) of this section.

(iii) Continuous process vents not included in a raw materials preparation section, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) of this section, and not included in a polymerization reaction section, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, shall comply with § 63.1315.

(iv) Batch process vents shall comply with § 63.1321.

(v) Comply with one of the following:

(A) Reduce the emissions in a combustion device to achieve 98 weight percent reduction or to achieve a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) on a dry basis, whichever is less stringent. If an owner or operator elects to comply with the 20 ppmv standard, the concentration shall include a correction to 3 percent oxygen only when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions;

(B) Combust the emissions in a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 150 million Btu/hr or greater by introducing the emissions into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater; or

(C) Combust the emissions in a flare that complies with the requirements of § 63.1333(e).

(c) The owner or operator of an affected source producing polystyrene resin using a continuous process shall comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section, as appropriate, instead of the requirements specified in 40 CFR part 60, subpart DDD. Compliance can be based on either organic HAP or TOC.

(1) Limit organic HAP emissions from continuous process vents in the collection of material recovery sections within the affected source by complying with either paragraph (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) Organic HAP emissions from all continuous process vents in each individual material recovery section shall, as a whole, be no greater than 0.0036 kg organic HAP per Mg of product from the associated TPPU(s); or alternatively, organic HAP emissions from all continuous process vents in the collection of material recovery sections within the affected source shall, as a whole, be no greater than 0.0036 kg organic HAP per Mg of product from all associated TPPU(s). During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using the procedures specified in § 63.1318(b)(1), an owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit subject to an emission limit expressed as mass emissions per mass product may demonstrate compliance with the limit in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) Keep records establishing that the raw material introduced and product discharged rates were both zero.

(B) Divide the organic HAP emission rate during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero according to § 63.1318(b)(1). Keep records of this calculation.

(C) Keep records establishing that the operating parameters of the control device used to comply with the emission limit in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section were maintained at the level established to meet

(ii) As specified in § 63.1318(d), the owner or operator shall maintain the daily average outlet gas stream temperature from each final condenser in a material recovery section at a temperature of -25 &#xB0;C (-13 &#xB0;F) or less (i.e., colder); or

(iii) Comply with one of the following:

(A) Reduce the emissions in a combustion device to achieve 98 weight percent reduction or to achieve a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) on a dry basis, whichever is less stringent. If an owner or operator elects to comply with the 20 ppmv standard, the concentration shall include a correction to 3 percent oxygen only when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions;

(B) Combust the emissions in a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 150 million Btu/hr or greater by introducing the emissions into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater; or

(C) Combust the emissions in a flare that complies with the requirements of § 63.1333(e).

(2) Limit organic HAP emissions from continuous process vents not included in a material recovery section, as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, by complying with § 63.1315.

(3) Batch process vents shall comply with § 63.1321.
