
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1322 Batch process vents - reference control technology.
####### Batch process vents.

(a)The owner or operator of a Group 1 batch process vent, as determined using the procedures in § 63.1323, shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Compliance may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.

(1) For each batch process vent, reduce organic HAP emissions using a flare.

(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of § 63.1333(e) for the flare.

(ii) Halogenated batch process vents, as defined in § 63.1312, shall not be vented to a flare.

(2) For each batch process vent, reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 90 weight percent using a control device. Owners or operators may achieve compliance with this paragraph (a)(2) through the control of selected batch emission episodes or the control of portions of selected batch emission episodes. Documentation demonstrating how the 90 weight percent emission reduction is achieved is required by § 63.1325(c)(2).

(3) The owner or operator of a new affected source producing SAN using a batch process shall reduce organic HAP emissions from the collection of batch process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, and continuous process vents by 84 weight percent. Compliance with this paragraph (a)(3) shall be demonstrated using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(c).
