
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1321 Batch process vents provisions.
####### New SAN batch affected sources.

(b)Owners and operators of new SAN affected sources using a batch process shall comply with the requirements of § 63.1322 through § 63.1327 for batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(2) of this section. For continuous process vents, owners and operators shall comply with the requirements of § 63.1322 through § 63.1327 except as specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) For batch process vents, the determination of group status (i.e., Group 1/Group 2) under § 63.1323 is not required.

(2) For batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, the control requirements for individual batch process vents or aggregate batch vent streams (e.g., 90 percent emission reduction) as specified in § 63.1322(a)(1), (a)(2), (b)(1), and (b)(2) shall not apply.

(3) Continuous process vents using a control or recovery device to comply with § 63.1322(a)(3) are subject to the applicable requirements in § 63.1315(a), as appropriate, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) Said continuous process vents are not subject to the group determination procedures of § 63.115 for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) Said continuous process vents are not subject to the reference control technology provisions of § 63.113 for the purposes of this subpart.
