
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1320 PET and polystyrene affected sources - reporting provisions.
####### Reporting for PET Affected Sources Using a Dimethyl Terephthalate Process.

(b)Owners or operators complying with § 63.1316 by demonstrating that mass emissions per mass product are less than or equal to the level specified in § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) (i.e., 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product) shall comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(1) Include the information specified in § 63.1319(b)(2) in each Periodic Report, required by § 63.1335(e)(6), as appropriate.

(2) Include the information specified in § 63.1319(b)(1) in the Notification of Compliance Status, required by § 63.1335(e)(5).

(3) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes emissions from continuous process vents in the collection of material recovery sections (i.e., methanol recovery) within the affected source to be greater than 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or the information regarding the process change is known to the owner or operator. This report may be included in the next Periodic Report. The report shall include the information specified in § 63.1319(b)(1) and a description of the process change.
