
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1322 Batch process vents - reference control technology.
####### Aggregate batch vent streams.

(b)The owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream that contains one or more Group 1 batch process vents shall comply with the requirements of either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, except as provided for in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. Compliance may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.

(1) For each aggregate batch vent stream, reduce organic HAP emissions using a flare.

(i) The owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of ยง 63.1333(e) for the flare.

(ii) Halogenated aggregate batch vent streams, as defined in ยง 63.1312, shall not be vented to a flare.

(2) For each aggregate batch vent stream, reduce organic HAP emissions by 90 weight percent or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent, on a continuous basis using a control device. For purposes of complying with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard, the outlet concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis. When a combustion device is used for purposes of complying with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard, the concentration shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen if supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions. If supplemental combustion air is not used, a correction to 3 percent oxygen is not required.

(3) The owner or operator of a new affected source producing SAN using a batch process shall comply with paragraph (a)(3) of this section.
