
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1322 Batch process vents - reference control technology.
####### Combination of batch process vents or aggregate batch vent streams with continuous process vents.

(e)If a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous process vent, the owner or operator shall determine whether the combined vent stream is subject to the provisions of §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327 according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(1) A batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream combined with a continuous process vent is not subject to the provisions of §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327, if the requirements in paragraph (e)(1)(i) and in either paragraph (e)(1)(ii) or (e)(1)(iii) are met.

(i) The only emissions to the atmosphere from the batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream prior to being combined with the continuous process vent are from equipment subject to § 63.1331.

(ii) The batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 1 continuous process vent prior to the combined vent stream being routed to a control device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(ii), the definition of control device as it relates to continuous process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(ii) shall be subject to § 63.1315(a)(13)(i).

(iii) The batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a continuous process vent prior to being routed to a recovery device. In this paragraph (e)(1)(iii), the definition of recovery device as it relates to continuous process vents shall be used. Furthermore, the combined vent stream discussed in this paragraph (e)(1)(iii) shall be subject to § 63.1315(a)(13)(ii).

(2) If the batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is combined with a Group 2 continuous process vent, the group status of the batch process vent shall be determined prior to its combination with the Group 2 continuous process vent, in accordance with § 63.1323, and the combined vent stream shall be subject to the requirements for aggregate batch vent streams in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327.
