
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1323 Batch process vents - methods and procedures for group determination.
####### General requirements.

(a)Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section and in § 63.1321(b)(1), the owner or operator of batch process vents at affected sources shall determine the group status of each batch process vent in accordance with the provisions of this section. This determination may be based on either organic HAP or TOC emissions.

(1) The procedures specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section shall be followed to determine the group status of each batch process vent. This determination shall be made in accordance with either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) An owner or operator may choose to determine the group status of a batch process vent based on the expected mix of products. For each product, emission characteristics of the single highest-HAP recipe, as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, for that product shall be used in the procedures in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section.

(ii) An owner or operator may choose to determine the group status of a batch process vent based on annualized production of the single highest-HAP recipe, as defined in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, considering all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation. The annualized production of the highest-HAP recipe shall be based exclusively on the production of the single highest-HAP recipe of all products produced or processed in the batch unit operation for a 12 month period. The production level used may be the actual production rate. It is not necessary to assume a maximum production rate (i.e., 8,760 hours per year at maximum design production).

(iii) The single highest-HAP recipe for a product means the recipe of the product with the highest total mass of HAP charged to the reactor during the production of a single batch of product.

(2) The annual uncontrolled organic HAP or TOC emissions and annual average batch vent flow rate shall be determined at the exit from the batch unit operation. For the purposes of these determinations, the primary condenser operating as a reflux condenser on a reactor or distillation column, the primary condenser recovering monomer, reaction products, by-products, or solvent from a stripper operated in batch mode, and the primary condenser recovering monomer, reaction products, by-products, or solvent from a distillation operation operated in batch mode shall be considered part of the batch unit operation. All other devices that recover or oxidize organic HAP or TOC vapors shall be considered control devices as defined in § 63.1312.

(3) The owner or operator of a batch process vent complying with the flare provisions in § 63.1322(a)(1) or § 63.1322(b)(1) or routing the batch process vent to a control device to comply with the requirements in § 63.1322(a)(2) or § 63.1322(b)(2) is not required to perform the batch process vent group determination described in this section, but shall comply with all requirements applicable to Group 1 batch process vents for said batch process vent.
