
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1323 Batch process vents - methods and procedures for group determination.
####### Determination of average batch vent flow rate and annual average batch vent flow rate.

(e)The owner or operator shall determine the average batch vent flow rate for each batch emission episode in accordance with one of the procedures provided in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(2) of this section. The annual average batch vent flow rate for a batch process vent shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(1) Determination of the average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode by direct measurement shall be made using the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) The volumetric flow rate (FR) for a batch emission episode, in standard cubic meters per minute (scmm) at 20 &#xB0;C, shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(ii) The volumetric flow rate of a representative batch emission episode shall be measured every 15 minutes.

(iii) The average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equation 14 of this subpart.

(2) The average batch vent flow rate for a batch emission episode may be determined by engineering assessment, as defined in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section. All data, assumptions, and procedures used shall be documented.

(3) The annual average batch vent flow rate for a batch process vent shall be calculated using Equation 15 of this subpart.
