
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1324 Batch process vents - monitoring equipment.
####### Establishment of parameter monitoring levels.

(f)Parameter monitoring levels for batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams shall be established as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section. For continuous process vents complying with § 63.1322(a)(3), parameter monitoring levels shall be established as specified in § 63.1315(a), except as specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(1) For each parameter monitored under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish a level, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter as denoted in Table 8 of this subpart, that indicates proper operation of the control device. The level shall be established in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.1334. The level may be based upon a prior performance test conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by EPA, and the owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test under § 63.1325, provided that the prior performance test meets the conditions of § 63.1325(b)(3).

(i) For batch process vents using a control device to comply with § 63.1322(a)(2), the established level shall reflect the control efficiency established as part of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1325(c)(2).

(ii) For aggregate batch vent streams using a control device to comply with § 63.1322(b)(2), the established level shall reflect the emission reduction requirement of either 90 percent or 20 ppmv specified in § 63.1322(b)(2).

(iii) For batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams using a control device to comply with § 63.1322(a)(3), the established level shall reflect the control efficiency established as part of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1325(f)(4).

(2) The established level, along with supporting documentation, shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application as required in § 63.1335(e)(5) or § 63.1335(e)(8), respectively.

(3) The operating day shall be defined as part of establishing the parameter monitoring level and shall be submitted with the information in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The definition of operating day shall specify the time(s) at which an operating day begins and ends. The operating day shall not exceed 24 hours.

(4) For continuous process vents using a control or recovery device to comply with § 63.1322(a)(3), the established level shall reflect the control efficiency established as part of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1325(f)(4).
