
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1323 Batch process vents - methods and procedures for group determination.
####### Process changes to new SAN affected sources using a batch process.

(j)Whenever process changes, as described in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, are made to a new affected source producing SAN using a batch process that could reasonably be expected to adversely impact the compliance status (i.e., achievement of 84 percent emission reduction) of the affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (j)(2) and (3) of this section.

(1) Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, changes in production capacity, production rate, feedstock type, or catalyst type; replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment considered part of a batch unit operation, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; replacement, removal, or addition of control equipment associated with a continuous or batch process vent or an aggregate batch vent stream. For purposes of this paragraph (j)(1), process changes do not include process upsets or unintentional, temporary process changes.

(2) The owner or operator shall redetermine the percent emission reduction achieved using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(c). If engineering assessment, as described in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, can demonstrate that the process change did not cause the percent emission reduction to decrease, it may be used in lieu of redetermining the percent reduction using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(c).

(3) Where the redetermined percent reduction is less than 84 percent, the owner or operator of the affected source shall submit a report as specified in § 63.1327(d) and shall comply with § 63.1322(a)(3) and all associated provisions in accordance with § 63.1310(i).
