
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1325 Batch process vents - performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### 2

() The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(ii) If an integrated sample is taken over the entire test period to determine average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions per batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equations 19 and 20 of this subpart.

(iii) If grab samples are taken to determine average batch vent concentration of TOC or total organic HAP, emissions shall be calculated according to paragraphs (c)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) For each measurement point, the emission rates shall be calculated using Equations 21 and 22 of this subpart.

(B) The emissions per batch emission episode shall be calculated using Equations 23 and 24 of this subpart.

(iv) The control efficiency for the control device shall be calculated using Equation 25 of this subpart.

(v) If the batch process vent entering a boiler or process heater with a design capacity less than 44 megawatts is introduced with the combustion air or as a secondary fuel, the weight-percent reduction of total organic HAP or TOC across the device shall be determined by comparing the TOC or total organic HAP in all combusted batch process vents and primary and secondary fuels with the TOC or total organic HAP, respectively, exiting the combustion device.

(2) The percent reduction for the batch cycle shall be determined using Equation 26 of this subpart and the control device efficiencies specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section. All information used to calculate the batch cycle percent reduction, including a definition of the batch cycle identifying all batch emission episodes, shall be recorded as specified in ยง 63.1326(b)(2). This information shall include identification of those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, selected for control.

(i) If a performance test is required by paragraph (c) of this section, the control efficiency of the control device shall be as determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.

(ii) If a performance test is not required by paragraph (c) of this section for a combustion control device, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, the control efficiency shall be 98 percent. The control efficiency for a flare shall be 98 percent.

(iii) If a performance test is not required by paragraph (c) of this section for a noncombustion control device, the control efficiency shall be determined by the owner or operator based on engineering assessment.
