
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1325 Batch process vents - performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Aggregate batch vent stream testing for compliance with § 63.1322(b)(2) or (b)(3).

(e)Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section, owners or operators of aggregate batch vent streams complying with § 63.1322(b)(2) or (b)(3) shall conduct a performance test using the performance testing procedures for continuous process vents in § 63.116(c).

(1) For purposes of this subpart, when the provisions of § 63.116(c) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, may be used. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(2) When § 63.116(c)(4) refers to complying with an emission reduction of 98 percent, for purposes of this subpart, the 90 percent reduction requirement specified in § 63.1322(b)(2) shall apply.

(3) When a combustion device is used to comply with the 20 parts per million by volume outlet concentration standard specified in § 63.1322(b)(2), the correction to 3 percent oxygen specified in the performance testing procedures of § 63.116(c)(3) and § 63.116(c)(3)(iii) is only required when supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, for the purposes of this subpart.
