
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1325 Batch process vents - performance test methods and procedures to determine compliance.
####### Compliance with § 63.1322(a)(3) [new SAN batch affected sources].

(f)Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, an owner or operator using a control or recovery device to comply with the percent reduction requirement in § 63.1322(a)(3) shall conduct performance tests as specified in either paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of this section, as applicable. Compliance with § 63.1322(a)(3) shall be determined as specified in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(1) For batch process vents, performance tests shall be conducted using the procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section, except that the owner or operator is not required to determine the percent reduction for the batch cycle as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) For continuous process vents, performance tests shall be conducted as required by the applicable requirements of § 63.1315(a) as specified in § 63.1321(b).

(3) For aggregate batch vent streams, performance tests shall be conducted as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(4) Compliance with the percent reduction requirement of § 63.1322(a)(3) shall be demonstrated using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(c) and the control device efficiencies specified in either paragraph (f)(4)(i) or (f)(4)(ii) of this section. Emissions for uncontrolled continuous process vents and aggregate batch vent streams shall be determined based on the direct measurement procedures specified in paragraph (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, respectively, or based on engineering assessment, as specified in § 63.1323(b)(6)(i). At the discretion of the owner or operator, emissions for uncontrolled batch process vents shall be determined based on any of the procedures in § 63.1323(b).

(i) For noncombustion devices, the control efficiency shall be as determined by the performance test required by paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of this section. Alternatively, if a performance test is not required by paragraph (c) of this section, the control efficiency shall be determined by the owner or operator based on engineering assessment.

(ii) For combustion devices, the control efficiency shall be as determined by the performance test required by paragraph (f)(1), (f)(2), or (f)(3) of this section. Alternatively, if a performance test is not required, the control efficiency shall be 98 percent. The control efficiency for a flare shall be 98 percent.
