
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1328 Heat exchange systems provisions.

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, each owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with § 63.104, with the differences noted in paragraphs (c) through (h) of this section, for the purposes of this subpart.

(b) The provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to each process contact cooling tower that is associated with an existing affected source manufacturing PET.

(c) When the term "chemical manufacturing process unit" is used in § 63.104, the term "thermoplastic product process unit" shall apply for purposes of this subpart, with the exception noted in paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) When the phrase "a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100(b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart, except for chemical manufacturing process units meeting the condition specified in § 63.100(c) of this subpart" is used in § 63.104(a), the term "a TPPU, except for TPPUs meeting the condition specified in § 63.1310(b)" shall apply for purposes of this subpart.

(e) When § 63.104 refers to Table 4 of subpart F of this part or Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 6 of this subpart, except for ethylene glycol which need not be considered under this section, for purposes of this subpart.

(f) When § 63.104(c)(3) specifies the monitoring plan retention requirements, and when § 63.104(f)(1) refers to the record retention requirements in § 63.103(c)(1), the requirements in §§ 63.1335(a) and 63.1335(h) shall apply, for purposes of this subpart.

(g) When § 63.104(f)(2) requires information to be reported in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.152(c), the owner or operator shall instead report the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) in the Periodic Reports required by § 63.1335(e)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.

(h) The compliance date for heat exchange systems subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1311.
