
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1327 Batch process vents - reporting requirements.

(a) The owner or operator of a batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream at an affected source shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section, as appropriate, as part of the Notification of Compliance Status specified in § 63.1335(e)(5).

(1) For each batch process vent complying § 63.1322(a) and each aggregate batch vent stream complying § 63.1322(b), the information specified in § 63.1326 (b) and (c), as applicable.

(2) For each Group 2 batch process vent with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.1323(d), the information specified in § 63.1326(d)(1)(i).

(3) For each Group 2 batch process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.1323(d), the information specified in § 63.1326(d)(2)(i).

(4) For each batch process vent subject to the group determination procedures, the information specified in § 63.1326(a), as appropriate.

(5) For each Group 2 batch process vent that is exempt from the batch mass input limitation provisions because it meets the criteria of § 63.1322(h), the information specified in § 63.1326(a)(1) through (3), and the information specified in § 63.1326(a)(4) through (6) as applicable, calculated at the conditions specified in § 63.1322(h).

(6) When engineering assessment has been used to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode and the criteria specified in § 63.1323(b)(6)(i)(A) or (B) have been met, the owner or operator shall submit the information demonstrating that the criteria specified in § 63.1323(b)(6)(i)(A) or (B) have been met as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1335(e)(5).

(b) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.1323(i)(1), is made that causes a Group 2 batch process vent to become a Group 1 batch process vent, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator and submit a description of the process change within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the Group 1 batch process vent provisions in §§ 63.1321 through 63.1327 in accordance with § 63.1310(i)(2)(ii).

(c) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.1323(i)(1), is made that causes a Group 2 batch process vent with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.1323(d) for which the owner or operator has chosen to comply with § 63.1322(g) to have annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.1323(d) but remains a Group 2 batch process vent, or if a process change is made that requires the owner or operator to redetermine the batch mass input limitation as specified in § 63.1323(i)(3), the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. The following information shall be submitted:

(1) A description of the process change;

(2) The batch mass input limitation determined in accordance with § 63.1322(f)(1).

(d) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.1323(j)(1), is made that could potentially cause the percent reduction for all process vents at a new SAN affected source using a batch process to be less than 84 percent, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator and submit a description of the process change within 180 days after the process change is made or with the next Periodic Report, whichever is later. The owner or operator shall comply with § 63.1322(a)(3) and all associated provisions in accordance with § 63.1310(i).

(e) The owner or operator is not required to submit a report of a process change if one of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) or (e)(2) of this section is met.

(1) The change does not meet the description of a process change in § 63.1323(i) or (j).

(2) The redetermined group status remains Group 2 for an individual batch process vent with annual emissions greater than or equal to the level specified in § 63.1323(d) and the batch mass input limitation does not decrease, a Group 2 batch process vent with annual emissions less than the level specified in § 63.1323(d) complying with § 63.1322(g) continues to have emissions less than the level specified in § 63.1323(d) and the batch mass input limitation does not decrease, or the achieved emission reduction remains at 84 percent or greater for new SAN affected sources using a batch process.

(f) If an owner or operator uses a control device other than those specified in § 63.1324(c) and listed in Table 7 of this subpart or requests approval to monitor a parameter other than those specified § 63.1324(c) and listed in Table 7 of this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned reporting and recordkeeping procedures, as specified in § 63.1335(f), as part of the Precompliance Report required under § 63.1335(e)(3). The Administrator will specify appropriate reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the Precompliance Report.

(g) Owners or operators of affected sources complying with § 63.1324(e), shall comply with paragraph (g)(1) or (g)(2) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) Submit reports of the times of all periods recorded under § 63.1326(e)(3) when the batch process vent is diverted from the control device through a bypass line, with the next Periodic Report.

(2) Submit reports of all occurrences recorded under § 63.1326(e)(4) in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line damper or valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line damper or valve was checked out, with the next Periodic Report.
