
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1326 Batch process vents - recordkeeping provisions.
####### Aggregate batch vent stream continuous compliance records.

(f)In addition to the records specified in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, each owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream using a control device to comply with § 63.1322(b)(1) or (b)(2) shall keep the following records readily accessible:

(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 63.1324(c) and listed in Table 7 of this subpart, as applicable, or specified by the Administrator in accordance with § 63.1327(f), as allowed under § 63.1324(d), with the exceptions listed in (f)(1)(i) and (f)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) For flares, the records specified in Table 7 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.

(ii) For carbon adsorbers, the records specified in Table 7 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of daily averages.

(2) Records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 63.1335(d).

(3) For demonstrating compliance with the monitoring of bypass lines as specified in § 63.1324(e), records as specified in paragraphs (e)(3) or (e)(4) of this section, as appropriate.

(g) Documentation supporting the establishment of the batch mass input limitation shall include the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(5) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) Identification of whether the purpose of the batch mass input limitation is to comply with § 63.1322(f)(1) or (g)(1).

(2) Identification of whether the batch mass input limitation is based on the single highest-HAP recipe (considering all products) or on the expected mix of products for the batch process vent as allowed under § 63.1323(a)(1).

(3) Definition of the operating year, for the purposes of determining compliance with the batch mass input limitation.

(4) If the batch mass input limitation is based on the expected mix of products, the owner or operator shall provide documentation that describes as many scenarios for differing mixes of products (i.e., how many of each type of product) as the owner or operator desires the flexibility to accomplish. Alternatively, the owner or operator shall provide a description of the relationship among the mix of products that will allow a determination of compliance with the batch mass input limitation under any number of scenarios.

(5) The mass of HAP or material allowed to be charged to the batch unit operation per year under the batch mass input limitation.
