
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1330 Wastewater provisions.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.149, with the differences noted in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(22) of this section for the purposes of this subpart.

(1) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137, the provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When the storage vessel requirements contained in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are applicable, with the exception of the differences referred to in § 63.1314, for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When § 63.146(a) requires the submission of a request for approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or (g), owners or operators requesting to monitor alternative parameters shall follow the procedures specified in § 63.1335(f) for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) When § 63.147(d) requires owners or operators to keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in § 63.152(f), owners and operators shall instead keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter as specified in § 63.1335(d) for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to an "existing source," the term "existing affected source," as defined in § 63.1310(a), shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a "new source," the term "new affected source," as defined in § 63.1310(a), shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) When § 63.132(a) and (b) refer to the "applicable dates specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part," the compliance dates specified in § 63.1311 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(8) The provisions of paragraphs (b)(8)(i), (b)(8)(ii), and (b)(8)(iii) of this section clarify the organic HAP that an owner or operator shall consider when complying with the requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.149.

(i) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to table 8 compounds, the owner or operator is only required to consider 1,3-butadiene for purposes of this subpart.

(ii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to table 9 compounds, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.1312 and that are listed on table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart, except for ethylene glycol which need not be considered.

(iii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to compounds in table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, or compounds on List 1 and/or List 2, as listed on table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.1312 and that are listed in table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.

(9) Whenever §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a "chemical manufacturing process unit," the term "thermoplastic product process unit," (or TPPU) as defined in § 63.1312, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when § 63.149 refers to "a chemical manufacturing process unit that meets the criteria of § 63.100(b) of subpart F of this part," the term "a TPPU as defined in § 63.1312(b)" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(10) Whenever §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to a Group 1 wastewater stream or a Group 2 wastewater stream, the definitions of these terms contained in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(11) When § 63.149(d) refers to "§ 63.100(f) of subpart F", the phrase "§ 63.1310(c)" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, where § 63.149(d) states "and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from controls by the provisions of subpart A, F, G, or H of this part", the phrase "and the item of equipment is not otherwise exempt from controls by the provisions of subparts A, F, G, H, or JJJ of this part" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(12) When § 63.149(e)(1) and (e)(2) refer to "a chemical manufacturing process unit subject to the new source requirements of 40 CFR § 63.100(l)(1) or 40 CFR § 63.100(l)(2)," the phrase "a TPPU that is part of a new affected source or that is a new affected source," shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(13) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.138 and 63.146, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when §§ 63.132 through 63.149 require that information be reported according to § 63.152(b) in the Notification of Compliance Status, the owner or operator of an affected source shall report the specified information in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1335(e)(5) for the purposes of this subpart.

(14) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in § 63.146, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1335(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, when §§ 63.132 through 63.149 require that information be reported in the Periodic Reports required in § 63.152(c), the owner or operator of an affected source shall report the specified information in the Periodic Reports required in § 63.1335(e)(6) for the purposes of this subpart.

(15) When § 63.143(f) specifies that owners or operators shall establish the range that indicates proper operation of the treatment process or control device, the owner or operator shall instead comply with the requirements of § 63.1334(c) or (d) for establishing parameter level maximums/minimums for the purposes of this subpart.

(16) When § 63.146(b)(7) and § 63.146(b)(8) require that "the information on parameter ranges specified in § 63.152(b)(2)" be reported in the Notification of Compliance Status, owners and operators of affected sources are instead required to report the information on parameter levels as specified in § 63.1335(e)(5)(ii) for the purposes of this subpart.

(17) When the term "range" is used in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, the term "level" apply instead for the purposes of this subpart. This level shall be determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1334.

(18) For the purposes of this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source is not required to include process wastewater streams that contain styrene when conducting performance tests for the purposes of calculating the required mass removal (RMR) or the actual mass removal (AMR) under the provisions described in § 63.145(f) or § 63.145(g). For purposes of this paragraph, a process wastewater stream is considered to contain styrene if the wastewater stream meets the requirements in paragraph (b)(18)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section.

(i) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces ABS or ABS latex;

(ii) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces EPS;

(iii) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces MABS;

(iv) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces MBS; or

(v) The wastewater stream originates at equipment that produces SAN.

(19) When the provisions of § 63.139(c)(1)(ii), § 63.145(d)(4), or § 63.145(i)(2) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(19)(i) and (b)(19)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(20) In § 63.145(j), instead of the reference to § 63.11(b), and instead of § 63.145(j)(1) and § 63.145(j)(2), the requirements in § 63.1333(e) shall apply.

(21) The owner or operator of a facility which receives a Group 1 wastewater stream, or a residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream, for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) is subject to the requirements of § 63.132(g) with the differences identified in this section, and is not subject to subpart DD of this part with respect to that material.

(22) When § 63.132(g) refers to "§§ 63.133 through 63.137" or "§§ 63.133 through 63.147", the provisions in this section 63.1330 shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(c) For each affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements for maintenance wastewater in § 63.105, except that when § 63.105(a) refers to "organic HAPs listed in table 9 of subpart G of this part," the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.1312 and that are listed in table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, except for ethylene glycol which need not be considered, for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section do not apply to each affected source producing ASA/AMSAN.

(e) The provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section do not apply to each affected source producing polystyrene using either a continuous or batch process.
