
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1331 Equipment leak provisions.

(a) Except § 63.165 and as provided for in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of subpart H of this part, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (13) of this section.

(1) For an affected source producing polystyrene resin, the indications of liquids dripping, as defined in subpart H of this part, from bleed ports in pumps and agitator seals in light liquid service shall not be considered to be a leak. For purposes of this subpart, a "bleed port" is a technologically-required feature of the pump or seal whereby polymer fluid used to provide lubrication and/or cooling of the pump or agitator shaft exits the pump, thereby resulting in a visible dripping of fluid.

(2) The compliance date for the equipment leak provisions contained in this section is provided in § 63.1311. Whenever subpart H of this part refers to the compliance dates specified in any paragraph contained in § 63.100, the compliance dates listed in § 63.1311(d) shall instead apply, for the purposes of this subpart. When § 63.182(c)(4) refers to "sources subject to subpart F," the phrase "sources subject to this subpart" shall apply, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, extensions of compliance dates are addressed by § 63.1311(e) instead of § 63.182(a)(6), for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) Owners and operators of an affected source subject to this subpart are not required to submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.182(a)(1) and § 63.182(b).

(4) As specified in § 63.1335(e)(5), the Notification of Compliance Status required by paragraphs § 63.182(a)(2) and § 63.182(c) shall be submitted within 150 days (rather than 90 days) of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.1311 for the equipment leak provisions.

(5) The information specified by § 63.182(a)(3) and § 63.182(d) (i.e., Periodic Reports) shall be submitted as part of the Periodic Reports required by § 63.1335(e)(6).

(6) For pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service; pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service; and instrumentation systems; owners or operators of affected sources producing PET shall comply with the requirements of paragraphs (a)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section instead of with the requirements of § 63.139. Owners or operators of PET affected sources shall comply with all other provisions of subpart H of this part for pumps, valves, connectors, and agitators in heavy liquid service; pressure relief devices in light liquid or heavy liquid service; and instrumentation systems, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(iii) through (v) of this section.

(i) A leak is determined to be detected if there is evidence of a potential leak found by visual, audible, or olfactory means. Method 21, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may not be used to determine the presence or absence of a leak.

(ii)(A) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practical, but not later than 15 days after it is detected, except as provided in § 63.171.

(B) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 days after each leak is detected.

(C) Repaired shall mean that the visual, audible, olfactory, or other indications of a leak have been eliminated; that no bubbles are observed at potential leak sites during a leak check using soap solution; or that the system will hold a test pressure.

(iii) An owner or operator is not required to develop an initial list of identification numbers as would otherwise be required under § 63.181(b)(1)(i) or § 63.181(b)(4).

(iv) When recording the detection of a leak under § 63.182(d)(1), the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with paragraphs (a)(6)(iv)(A) through (a)(6)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) When complying with § 63.181(d)(1), provide an identification number for the leaking equipment at the time of recordkeeping. Further, the owner or operator is not required to record the identification number of the instrument (i.e., Method 21 instrument) because the use of Method 21 is not an acceptable method for determining a leak under this paragraph (a)(6).

(B) An owner or operator is not required to comply with § 63.181(d)(4) which requires a record of the maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(v) Indications of liquids dripping, as defined in subpart H of this part, from packing glands for pumps in ethylene glycol service where the pump seal is designed to weep fluid shall not be considered to be a leak. Ethylene glycol dripping from pump seals must be captured in a catchpan and returned to the process.

(7) When § 63.166(b)(4)(i) refers to Table 9 of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator is only required to consider organic HAP listed on Table 6 of this subpart for purposes of this subpart, except for ethylene glycol which need not be considered.

(8) When the provisions of subpart H of this part specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (a)(8)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
