
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1332 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2

(5) Record and report quarterly and annual credits and debits in the Periodic Reports as specified in § 63.1335(e)(6). Every fourth Periodic Report shall include a certification of compliance with the emissions averaging provisions as required by § 63.1335(e)(6)(x)(C)().

(f) Debits and credits shall be calculated in accordance with the methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, respectively, and shall not include emissions during periods of monitoring excursions, as defined in § 63.1334(f). For these periods, the calculation of monthly credits and debits shall be adjusted as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) No credits would be assigned to the credit-generating emission point.

(2) Maximum debits would be assigned to the debit-generating emission point.

(3) The owner or operator may demonstrate to the Administrator that full or partial credits or debits should be assigned using the procedures in paragraph (l) of this section.

(g) Debits are generated by the difference between the actual emissions from a Group 1 emission point that is uncontrolled or is controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable reference control technology or standard and the emissions allowed for the Group 1 emission point. Said Group 1 emission points are identified in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(5) of this section. Debits shall be calculated as follows:

(1) Source-wide debits shall be calculated using Equation 28 of this subpart. Debits and all terms of Equation 28 of this subpart are in units of megagrams per month:

(2) Emissions from continuous process vents subject to § 63.1315 shall be calculated as follows:

(i) For purposes of determining continuous process vent stream flow rate, organic HAP concentrations, and temperature, the sampling site shall be after the final product recovery device, if any recovery devices are present; before any control device (for continuous process vents, recovery devices shall not be considered control devices); and before discharge to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used for selection of the sampling site.

(ii) ECPVfor each continuous process vent i shall be calculated using Equation 29 of this subpart.

(A) The values of Q and Cj shall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q and Cj shall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and shall be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q and Cj are no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q and Cj. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate ECPV:

(A) If the continuous process vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, ECPV= ECPV, where ECPVis calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) If the continuous process vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 98 percent reduction, calculate ECPVusing Equation 30 of this subpart.
