
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1331 Equipment leak provisions.
####### Pressure relief devices routed to a control device, process, or drain system.

(iv)If a pressure relief device in organic HAP service is designed and operated to route all pressure releases through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or drain system, the owner or operator is not required to comply with paragraphs (a)(9)(i), (ii), or (iii) (if applicable) of this section. Both the closed vent system and control device (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.172. The drain system (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.136.

(10) If specific items of equipment, comprising part of a process unit subject to this subpart, are managed by different administrative organizations (e.g., different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any TPPU within the affected source for all purposes under subpart H of this part, providing there is no delay in achieving the applicable compliance date.

(11) When the terms "equipment" and "equipment leak" are used in subpart H of this part, the definitions of these terms in § 63.1312 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(12) The phrase "the provisions of subparts F, I, or JJJ of this part" shall apply instead of the phrase "the provisions of subpart F or I of this part" throughout §§ 63.163 and 63.168, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the phrase "subparts F, I, and JJJ" shall apply instead of the phrase "subparts F and I" in § 63.174(c)(2)(iii), for the purposes of this subpart.

(13) An owner or operator using a flare to comply with the requirements of this section shall conduct a compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.1333(e).

(b) The provisions of this section do not apply to each TPPU producing PET using a process other than a continuous terephthalic acid (TPA) high viscosity multiple end finisher process that is part of an affected source if all of the equipment leak components subject to this section § 63.1331 in the TPPU are either in vacuum service or in heavy liquid service.

(1) Owners and operators of a TPPU exempted under paragraph (b) of this section shall comply with paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Retain information, data, and analyses used to demonstrate that all of the components in the exempted TPPU are either in vacuum service or in heavy liquid service. For components in vacuum service, examples of information that could document this include, but are not limited to, analyses of process stream composition and process conditions, engineering calculations, or process knowledge. For components in heavy liquid service, such documentation shall include an analysis or demonstration that the process fluids do not meet the criteria of "in light liquid service" or "in gas or vapor service."

(ii) When requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that all of the components in the TPPU are either in vacuum service or in heavy liquid service.

(2) If changes occur at a TPPU exempted under paragraph (b) of this section such that all of the components in the TPPU are no longer either in vacuum service or in heavy liquid service (e.g., by either process changes or the addition of new components), the owner or operator of the affected source shall comply with the provisions of this section for all of the components at the TPPU. The owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or the information regarding the process change is known to the owner or operator. This report may be included in the next Periodic Report, as specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section. A description of the process change shall be submitted with this report.

(c)(1) Each affected source producing PET using a continuous TPA high viscosity multiple end finisher process shall monitor for leaks upon startup following an outage where changes have been made to equipment in gas/vapor or light liquid service. This leak check shall consist of the introduction of hot ethylene glycol vapors into the system for a period of no less than 2 hours during which time sensory monitoring of the equipment shall be conducted.

(2) A leak is determined to be detected if there is evidence of a potential leak found by visual, audible, or olfactory means.

(3) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practical, but not later than 15 days after it is detected, except as provided in § 63.171.

(i) The first attempt at repair shall be made no later than 5 days after each leak is detected.

(ii) Repaired shall mean that the visual, audible, olfactory or other indications of a leak have been eliminated; that no bubbles are observed at potential leak sites during a leak check using soap solution; or that the system will hold a test pressure.

(4) When a leak is detected, the following information shall be recorded and kept for 2 years and reported in the next periodic report:

(i) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials or identification number.

(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of first attempt to repair the leak.

(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.
