
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1332 Emissions averaging provisions.

(a) This section applies to owners or operators of existing affected sources who seek to comply with § 63.1313(b) by using emissions averaging rather than following the provisions of §§ 63.1314, 63.1315, 63.1316 through 63.1320, 63.1321, and 63.1330.

(1) The following emission point limitations apply to the use of these provisions:

(i) All emission points included in an emissions average shall be from the same affected source. There may be an emissions average for each affected source located at a plant site.

(ii)(A) If a plant site has only one affected source for which emissions averaging is being used to demonstrate compliance, the number of emission points allowed in the emissions average for said affected source is limited to twenty. This number may be increased by up to five additional emission points if pollution prevention measures are used to control five or more of the emission points included in the emissions average.

(B) If a plant site has two or more affected sources for which emissions averaging is being used to demonstrate compliance, the number of emission points allowed in the emissions averages for said affected sources is limited to twenty. This number may be increased by up to five additional emission points if pollution prevention measures are used to control five or more of the emission points included in the emissions averages.

(2) Compliance with the provisions of this section may be based on either organic HAP or TOC.

(3) For the purposes of these provisions, whenever Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is specified within the paragraphs of this section or is specified by reference through provisions outside this section, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, may be used. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (a)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(b) Unless an operating permit application has been submitted, the owner or operator shall develop and submit for approval an Emissions Averaging Plan containing all of the information required in § 63.1335(e)(4) for all emission points to be included in an emissions average.

(c) Paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section describe the emission points that may be used to generate emissions averaging credits if control was applied after November 15, 1990, and if sufficient information is available to determine the appropriate value of credits for the emission point. Paragraph (c)(6) of this section discusses the use of pollution prevention in generating emissions averaging credits.

(1) Storage vessels, batch process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, continuous process vents subject to § 63.1315, and process wastewater streams that are determined to be Group 2 emission points. The term "continuous process vents subject to § 63.1315" includes continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316 (b)(1)(iii), (b)(2)(iii), and (c)(2), which reference § 63.1315.

(2) Continuous process vents located in the collection of material recovery sections within the affected source at an existing affected source producing PET using a continuous dimethyl terephthalate process subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) where the uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from said continuous process vents are equal to or less than 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product. These continuous process vents shall be considered Group 2 emission points for the purposes of this section.

(3) Storage vessels, continuous process vents subject to § 63.1315, and process wastewater streams that are determined to be Group 1 emission points and that are controlled by a technology that the Administrator or permitting authority agrees has a higher nominal efficiency than the reference control technology. Information on the nominal efficiencies for such technologies shall be submitted and approved as provided in paragraph (i) of this section.

(4) Batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams that are determined to be Group 1 emission points and that are controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard.

(5) Continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316 (b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(1) located in the collection of process sections within the affected source, as specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (c)(5)(ii) of this section. The continuous process vents identified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (c)(5)(ii) of this section shall be considered to be Group 1 emission points for the purposes of this section.

(i) Continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) located in the collection of material recovery sections within the affected source where the uncontrolled organic HAP emissions for said continuous process vents are greater than 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product and said continuous process vents are controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard.

(ii) Continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(1) located in the collection of process sections within the affected source where the uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from said continuous process vents are controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard.

(6) The percent reduction for any storage vessel, batch process vent, aggregate batch vent stream, continuous process vent, and process wastewater stream from which emissions are reduced by pollution prevention measures shall be determined using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(i) For a Group 1 storage vessel, batch process vent, aggregate batch vent stream, continuous process vent, or process wastewater stream, the pollution prevention measure must reduce emissions more than if the applicable reference control technology or standard had been applied to the emission point instead of the pollution prevention measure, except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section.

(ii) If a pollution prevention measure is used in conjunction with other controls for a Group 1 storage vessel, batch process vent, aggregate batch vent stream, continuous process vent, or process wastewater stream, the pollution prevention measure alone does not have to reduce emissions more than the applicable reference control technology or standard, but the combination of the pollution prevention measure and other controls must reduce emissions more than if the applicable reference control technology or standard had been applied instead of the pollution prevention measure.

(d) The following emission points cannot be used to generate emissions averaging credits:

(1) Emission points already controlled on or before November 15, 1990, cannot be used to generate credits unless the level of control is increased after November 15, 1990. In this case, credit will be allowed only for the increase in control after November 15, 1990.

(2) Group 1 emission points, identified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, that are controlled by a reference control technology cannot be used to generate credits unless the reference control technology has been approved for use in a different manner and a higher nominal efficiency has been assigned according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.

(3) Emission points for nonoperating TPPU cannot be used to generate credits. TPPU that are shutdown cannot be used to generate credits or debits.

(4) Maintenance wastewater cannot be used to generate credits. Wastewater streams treated in biological treatment units cannot be used to generate credits. These two types of wastewater cannot be used to generate credits or debits. For the purposes of this section, the terms wastewater and wastewater stream are used to mean process wastewater.

(5) Emission points controlled to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart cannot be used to generate credits, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990, to a level above what is required by the other State or Federal rule. Only the control above what is required by the other State or Federal rule will be credited. However, if an emission point has been used to generate emissions averaging credit in an approved emissions average, and the emission point is subsequently made subject to a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, the emission point may continue to generate emissions averaging credit for the purpose of complying with the previously approved emissions average.

(e) For all emission points included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform the following tasks:

(1) Calculate and record monthly debits for all Group 1 emission points that are controlled to a level less stringent than the reference control technology or standard for those emission points. Said Group 1 emission points are identified in paragraphs (c)(3) through (c)(5) of this section. Equations in paragraph (g) of this section shall be used to calculate debits.

(2) Calculate and record monthly credits for all Group 1 and Group 2 emission points that are over-controlled to compensate for the debits. Equations in paragraph (h) of this section shall be used to calculate credits. Emission points and controls that meet the criteria of paragraph (c) of this section may be included in the credit calculation, whereas those described in paragraph (d) of this section shall not be included.

(3) Demonstrate that annual credits calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section are greater than or equal to debits calculated for the same annual compliance period according to paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator may choose to include more than the required number of credit-generating emission points in an emissions average in order to increase the likelihood of being in compliance.

(ii) The initial demonstration in the Emissions Averaging Plan or operating permit application that credit-generating emission points will be capable of generating sufficient credits to offset the debits from the debit-generating emission points shall be made under representative operating conditions. After the compliance date, actual operating data will be used for all debit and credit calculations.

(4) Demonstrate that debits calculated for a quarterly (3-month) period according to paragraph (g) of this section are not more than 1.30 times the credits for the same period calculated according to paragraph (h) of this section. Compliance for the quarter shall be determined based on the ratio of credits and debits from that quarter, with 30 percent more debits than credits allowed on a quarterly basis.
