
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1332 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 2

(i) The total organic HAP emissions from continuous process vents located in the collection of process sections j within the affected source, ECPVS, shall be calculated as follows. The procedures in paragraph (g)(2)(iii) of this section shall be used to determine the organic HAP emissions for each individual continuous process vent, except that paragraph (g)(2)(iii)(B)() of this section shall not apply and the sampling site shall be after those recovery devices installed as part of normal operation; before any add-on control devices (i.e., those required by regulation); and prior to discharge to the atmosphere. Then, individual continuous process vent emissions shall be summed to determine ECPVS.

(ii)(A) ECPVSjstd shall be calculated using Equation 31 of this subpart.

(B) The amount of polymer produced, Mg per month, for the collection of process sections j within the affected source shall be determined by determining the weight of polymer pulled from the process line(s) during a 30-day period. The polymer produced shall be determined by direct measurement or by an alternate methodology, such as materials balance. If an alternate methodology is used, a description of the methodology, including all procedures, data, and assumptions shall be submitted as part of the Emissions Averaging Plan required by § 63.1335(e)(4).

(C) Alternatively, ECPVSfor continuous process vents located in the collection of process sections within the affected source subject to § 63.1316(c)(1) may be calculated using the procedures in paragraph (g)(2)(i) and (g)(2)(ii) of this section to determine the organic HAP emissions for each individual continuous process vent, except that the sampling site shall be after recovery devices installed as part of normal operation; before any add-on control devices (i.e., those required by regulation); and prior to discharge to the atmosphere. Then, individual continuous process vent emissions shall be summed and multiplied by 0.02 to determine ECPVS.

(4) Emissions from storage vessels shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(g)(3).

(5) Emissions from wastewater streams shall be calculated using the procedures in § 63.150(g)(5).

(6) Emissions from batch process vents shall be calculated as follows:

(i) EBPVfor each batch process vent i shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.1323(b).

(ii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to determine EBPV:

(A) If the batch process vent is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, EBPV= EBPV, where EBPVis calculated using the procedures in § 63.1323(b).

(B) If the batch process vent is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 90 percent reduction for the batch cycle, calculate EBPVusing Equation 32 of this subpart, where percent reduction is for the batch cycle.
