
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1332 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 3

() The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(7) Emissions from aggregate batch vent streams shall be calculated as follows:

(i) For purposes of determining aggregate batch vent stream flow rate, organic HAP concentrations, and temperature, the sampling site shall be before any control device and before discharge to the atmosphere. Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used for selection of the sampling site.

(ii) EABVfor each aggregate batch vent stream i shall be calculated using Equation 33 of this subpart.

(A) The values of Q and Cj shall be determined during a performance test conducted under representative operating conditions. The values of Q and Cj shall be established in the Notification of Compliance Status and shall be updated as provided in paragraph (g)(7)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) If there is a change in capacity utilization other than a change in monthly operating hours, or if any other change is made to the process or product recovery equipment or operation such that the previously measured values of Q and Care no longer representative, a new performance test shall be conducted to determine new representative values of Q and C. These new values shall be used to calculate debits and credits from the time of the change forward, and the new values shall be reported in the next Periodic Report.

(iii) The following procedures and equations shall be used to calculate EABV:

(A) If the aggregate batch vent stream is not controlled by a control device or pollution prevention measure, EABV= EABV, where EABVis calculated according to the procedures in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.

(B) If the aggregate batch vent stream is controlled using a control device or a pollution prevention measure achieving less than 90 percent reduction, calculate EABVusing Equation 34 of this subpart.
