
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1332 Emissions averaging provisions.
####### 3

(C) If a recovery device was added as part of a pollution prevention project initiated after November 15, 1990, ECPV2= ECPV2, where ECPV2is calculated according to paragraph (h)(2)(iii)(A)() of this section.

(3) Emissions from continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(1) shall be determined as follows:

(i) Emissions from Group 1 continuous process vents located in the collection of process sections j within the affected source if the applicable standard had been applied to the uncontrolled emissions (ECPVS1) shall be calculated according to paragraph (g)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 continuous process vents located in the collection of process sections j within the affected source controlled to a level more stringent than the applicable standard (ECPVS1) shall be calculated using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii)(A) and (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, except that the actual emission level, Mg organic HAP/Mg of product, shall be used as EFin Equation 31 of this subpart. Further, ECPVS1for continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(c)(1) controlled in accordance with § 63.1316(c)(1)(iii) shall be calculated using the procedures in paragraph (h)(2)(ii) of this section for individual continuous process vents and then summing said emissions to get ECPVS1, except that the sampling site shall be after recovery devices installed as part of normal operation; before any add-on control devices (i.e., those required by regulation); and prior to discharge to the atmosphere.

(iii) Actual emissions from Group 2 continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) located in the collection of material recovery sections j within the affected source (ECPVS2) shall be calculated using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii)(A) and (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, except that the actual emission level, Mg organic HAP/Mg of product, shall be used as EFin Equation 31 of this subpart.

(iv) Emissions from Group 2 continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) located in the collection of material recovery sections j within the affected source at baseline (ECPVS2) shall be calculated using the procedures in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii)(A) and (g)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, except that the actual emission level, Mg organic HAP/Mg of product, at baseline shall be used as EFin Equation 31 of this subpart.

(4)(i) Emissions from storage vessels shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(h)(3).

(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 storage vessels at an existing affected source producing ASA/AMSAN subject to § 63.1314(c) using a technology with an approved nominal efficiency greater than 98 percent or a pollution prevention measure achieving greater than 98 percent emission reduction shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(h)(3)(ii).

(5) Emissions from wastewater streams shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(h)(5).

(6) Emissions from batch process vents shall be determined as follows:

(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 batch process vents (EBPV1) shall be calculated using the procedures § 63.1323(b).

(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 batch process vents controlled to a level more stringent than the standard (EBPV1) shall be calculated using Equation 40 of this subpart, where percent reduction is for the batch cycle:

(A) The percent reduction for the batch cycle shall be calculated according to the procedures in § 63.1325(c)(2).

(B) The percent reduction for control devices shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.1325(c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii).

(C) The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(iii) Actual emissions from Group 2 batch process vents (EBPV2) shall be calculated using Equation 41 of this subpart and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii)(A) through (h)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. EBPV2shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.1323(b).

(iv) Emissions from Group 2 batch process vents at baseline (EBPV2) shall be calculated as follows:

(A) If the batch process vent was uncontrolled on November 15, 1990, EBPV2= EBPV2and shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.1323(b).

(B) If the batch process vent was controlled on November 15, 1990, use Equation 42 of this subpart and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(6)(ii)(A) through (h)(6)(ii)(C) of this section. EBPV2shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.1323(b).

(7) Emissions from aggregate batch vent streams shall be determined as follows:

(i) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 aggregate batch vent streams (EABV1) shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for EABVin paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Actual emissions from Group 1 aggregate batch vent streams controlled to a level more stringent than the standard (EABV1) shall be calculated using Equation 43 of this subpart:

(A) The percent reduction for control devices shall be determined according to the procedures in § 63.1325(e).

(B) The percent reduction of pollution prevention measures shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(iii) Actual emissions from Group 2 aggregate batch vent streams (EABV2) shall be calculated using Equation 44 of this subpart and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(7)(ii)(A) through (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section. EABV2shall be calculated according to the equations and procedures for EABVin paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.

(iv) Emissions from Group 2 aggregate batch vent streams at baseline shall be calculated as follows:

(A) If the aggregate batch vent stream was uncontrolled on November 15, 1990, EABV2= EABV2and shall be calculated according to the procedures and equation for EABVin paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.

(B) If the aggregate batch vent stream was controlled on November 15, 1990, use Equation 45 of this subpart and the procedures in paragraphs (h)(7)(ii)(A) through (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section. EABV2shall be calculated according to the equations and procedures for EABVin paragraphs (g)(7)(i) and (g)(7)(ii) of this section.

(i) The following procedures shall be followed to establish nominal efficiencies for emission controls for storage vessels, continuous process vents, and process wastewater streams. The procedures in paragraphs (i)(1) through (i)(6) of this section shall be followed for control technologies that are different in use or design from the reference control technologies and achieve greater percent reductions than the percent efficiencies assigned to the reference control technologies in § 63.111.

(1) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology, and the different control technology will be used in more than three applications at a single plant-site, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) of this section, as specified in § 63.1335(e)(7)(ii), to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards in writing:

(i) Emission stream characteristics of each emission point to which the control technology is or will be applied including the kind of emission point, flow, organic HAP concentration, and all other stream characteristics necessary to design the control technology or determine its performance.

(ii) Description of the control technology including design specifications.

(iii) Documentation demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction the control efficiency of the control technology. This may include performance test data collected using an appropriate EPA Method or any other method validated according to Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, of this part. If it is infeasible to obtain test data, documentation may include a design evaluation and calculations. The engineering basis of the calculation procedures and all inputs and assumptions made in the calculations shall be documented.

(iv) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control technology will be operated in conformance with its design and an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters).

(2) The Administrator shall determine within 120 days whether an application presents sufficient information to determine nominal efficiency. The Administrator reserves the right to request specific data in addition to the items listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.

(3) The Administrator shall determine within 120 days of the submittal of sufficient data whether a control technology shall have a nominal efficiency and the level of that nominal efficiency. If, in the Administrator's judgment, the control technology achieves a level of emission reduction greater than the reference control technology for a particular kind of emission point, the Administrator will publish anotice establishing a nominal efficiency for the control technology.

(4) The Administrator may grant permission to take emission credits for use of the control technology. The Administrator may also impose requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the specified nominal efficiency.

(5) In those cases where the owner or operator is seeking permission to take credit for use of a control technology that is different in use or design from the reference control technology and the different control technology will be used in no more than three applications at a single plant site, the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (i)(1)(iv) of this section, as specified in § 63.1335(e)(7)(ii), to the Administrator.

(i) In these instances, use and conditions for use of the control technology may be approved by the permitting authority as part of an operating permit application or modification. The permitting authority shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (i)(2) through (i)(4) of this section except that, in these instances, anotice is not required to establish the nominal efficiency for the different technology.

(ii) If, in reviewing the application, the permitting authority believes the control technology has broad applicability for use by other affected sources, the permitting authority shall submit the information provided in the application to the Director of the EPA Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards. The Administrator shall review the technology for broad applicability and may publish anotice; however, this review shall not affect the permitting authority's approval of the nominal efficiency of the control technology for the specific application.

(6) If, in reviewing an application for a control technology for an emission point, the Administrator or permitting authority determines the control technology is not different in use or design from the reference control technology, the Administrator or permitting authority shall deny the application.

(j) The following procedures shall be used for calculating the efficiency (percent reduction) of pollution prevention measures for storage vessels, continuous process vents, batch process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, and wastewater streams:

(1) A pollution prevention measure is any practice that meets the criteria of paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (j)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) A pollution prevention measure is any practice that results in a lesser quantity of organic HAP emissions per unit of product released to the atmosphere prior to out-of-process recycling, treatment, or control of emissions, while the same product is produced.

(ii) Pollution prevention measures may include: substitution of feedstocks that reduce organic HAP emissions; alterations to the production process to reduce the volume of materials released to the environment; equipment modifications; housekeeping measures; and in-process recycling that returns waste materials directly to production as raw materials. Production cutbacks do not qualify as pollution prevention.

(2) The emission reduction efficiency of pollution prevention measures implemented after November 15, 1990, may be used in calculating the actual emissions from an emission point in the debit and credit equations in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section.

(i) For pollution prevention measures, the percent reduction used in the equations in paragraphs (g)(2) through (g)(7) of this section and paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(7) of this section is the percent difference between the monthly organic HAP emissions for each emission point after the pollution prevention measure for the most recent month versus monthly emissions from the same emission point before the pollution prevention measure, adjusted by the volume of product produced during the two monthly periods.

(ii) Equation 46 of this subpart shall be used to calculate the percent reduction of a pollution prevention measure for each emission point.

(A) The monthly emissions before the pollution prevention measure, E, shall be determined in a manner consistent with the equations and procedures in paragraphs (g)(2) and (g)(3) of this section for continuous process vents, paragraph (g)(4) of this section for storage vessels, paragraph (g)(6) of this section for batch process vents, and paragraph (g)(7) of this section for aggregate batch vent streams.

(B) For wastewater, Eshall be calculated using Equation 47 of this subpart:

(C) If the pollution prevention measure was implemented prior to September 12, 1996 records may be used to determine E.

(D) The monthly emissions after the pollution prevention measure, E, may be determined during a performance test or by a design evaluation and documented engineering calculations. Once an emissions-to-production ratio has been established, the ratio can be used to estimate monthly emissions from monthly production records.

(E) For wastewater, Eshall be calculated using Equation 48 of this subpart and n, Q, H, s, Fe, and HAPare defined and determined as described in paragraph (j)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, except that Q, H, and HAPshall be determined after the pollution prevention measure has been implemented.

(iii) All equations, calculations, test procedures, test results, and other information used to determine the percent reduction achieved by a pollution prevention measure for each emission point shall be fully documented.

(iv) The same pollution prevention measure may reduce emissions from multiple emission points. In such cases, the percent reduction in emissions for each emission point shall be calculated.

(v) For the purposes of the equations in paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(7) of this section used to calculate credits for emission points controlled more stringently than the reference control technology or standard, the nominal efficiency of a pollution prevention measure is equivalent to the percent reduction of the pollution prevention measure. When a pollution prevention measure is used, the owner or operator of an affected source is not required to apply to the Administrator for a nominal efficiency and is not subject to paragraph (i) of this section.

(k) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the emissions average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the Administrator, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were controlled according to the provisions in §§ 63.1314, 63.1315, 63.1316 through 63.1320, 63.1321, and 63.1330.

(1) This demonstration of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made to the satisfaction of the Administrator.

(i) The Administrator may require owners and operators to use specific methodologies and procedures for making a hazard or risk determination.

(ii) The demonstration and approval of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made according to any guidance that the Administrator makes available for use.

(2) Owners and operators shall provide documentation demonstrating the hazard or risk equivalency of their proposed emissions average in their operating permit application or in their Emissions Averaging Plan if an operating permit application has not yet been submitted.

(3) An Emissions Averaging Plan that does not demonstrate hazard or risk equivalency to the satisfaction of the Administrator shall not be approved. The Administrator may require such adjustments to the Emissions Averaging Plan as are necessary in order to ensure that the emissions average will not result in greater hazard or risk to human health or the environment than would result if the emission points were controlled according to §§ 63.1314, 63.1315, 63.1316 through 63.1320, 63.1321, and 63.1330.

(4) A hazard or risk equivalency demonstration shall:

(i) Be a quantitative, bona fide chemical hazard or risk assessment;

(ii) Account for differences in chemical hazard or risk to human health or the environment; and

(iii) Meet any requirements set by the Administrator for such demonstrations.

(l) For periods of parameter monitoring excursions, an owner or operator may request that the provisions of paragraphs (l)(1) through (l)(4) of this section be followed instead of the procedures in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of monitoring excursions in the Periodic Reports as required in § 63.1335(e)(6).

(2) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that other types of monitoring data or engineering calculations are appropriate to establish that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits. This demonstration shall be made to the Administrator's satisfaction, and the Administrator may establish procedures of demonstrating compliance that are acceptable.

(3) The owner or operator shall provide documentation of the excursion and the other type of monitoring data or engineering calculations to be used to demonstrate that the control device for the emission point was operating in such a fashion to warrant assigning full or partial credits and debits.

(4) The Administrator may assign full or partial credit and debits upon review of the information provided.

(m) For each emission point included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall perform testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting equivalent to that required for Group 1 emission points complying with §§ 63.1314, 63.1315, 63.1316 through 63.1320, 63.1321, and 63.1330, as applicable. The specific requirements for continuous process vents, batch process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, storage vessels, and wastewater operations that are included in an emissions average for an affected source are identified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(7) of this section.

(1) For each continuous process vent subject to § 63.1315 equipped with a flare, incinerator, boiler, or process heater, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) Determine whether the continuous process vent is Group 1 or Group 2 according to the procedures specified in § 63.1315;

(ii) Conduct initial performance tests to determine percent reduction according to the procedures specified in § 63.1315; and

(iii) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports according to the procedures specified in § 63.1315.

(2) For each continuous process vent subject to § 63.1315 equipped with a carbon adsorber, absorber, or condenser but not equipped with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) Determine the flow rate, organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value according to the procedures specified in § 63.1315; and

(ii) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports according to the procedures specified in § 63.1315.

(3) For continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(1):

(i) Determine whether the emissions from the continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316(b)(1)(i) located in the collection of material recovery sections within the affected source are greater than, equal to, or less than 0.12 kg organic HAP per Mg of product according to the procedures specified in § 63.1318(b);

(ii) Determine the emission rate, ER, for each collection of process sections within the affected source according to the procedures specified in § 63.1318(b); and

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) Monitor the operating parameters, keep records, and submit reports according to the procedures specified in § 63.1317, § 63.1319, § 63.1320.

(4) For each storage vessel controlled with an internal floating roof, external roof, or a closed vent system with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) Perform the monitoring or inspection procedures according to the procedures specified in § 63.1314;

(ii) Perform the reporting and recordkeeping procedures according to the procedures specified in § 63.1314; and

(iii) For closed vent systems with control devices, conduct an initial design evaluation and submit an operating plan according to the procedures specified in § 63.1314.

(5) For wastewater emission points, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) For wastewater treatment processes, conduct tests according to the procedures specified in § 63.1330;

(ii) Conduct inspections and monitoring according to the procedures specified in § 63.1330;

(iii) Implement a recordkeeping program according to the procedures specified in § 63.1330; and

(iv) Implement a reporting program according to the procedures specified in § 63.1330.

(6) For each batch process vent and aggregate batch vent stream equipped with a control device, as appropriate to the control technique:

(i) Determine whether the batch process vent or aggregate batch vent stream is Group 1 or Group 2 according to the procedures in § 63.1323;

(ii) Conduct performance tests according to the procedures specified in § 63.1325;

(iii) Conduct monitoring according to the procedures specified in § 63.1324; and

(iv) Perform the recordkeeping and reporting procedures according to the procedures specified in §§ 63.1326 and 63.1327.

(7) If an emission point in an emissions average is controlled using a pollution prevention measure or a device or technique for which no monitoring parameters or inspection procedures are required by §§ 63.1314, 63.1315, 63.1316 through 63.1320, 63.1321, or 63.1330, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.1335(f) for alternate monitoring parameters or inspection procedures in the Emissions Averaging Plan or operating permit application.

(n) Records of all information required to calculate emission debits and credits shall be retained for 5 years.

(o) Precompliance Reports, Emission Averaging Plans, Notifications of Compliance Status, Periodic Reports, and other reports shall be submitted as required by § 63.1335.
