
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1333 Additional requirements for performance testing.

(a) Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested and in accordance with § 63.7(a)(1), (a)(3), (d), (e)(2), (e)(4), (g), and (h), with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section and the additions specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator or an applicable subpart. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. Sections 63.1314 through 63.1330 also contain specific testing requirements.

(1) Performance tests shall be conducted according to the provisions of § 63.7(e)(2), except that performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions achievable during one of the time periods described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, without causing any of the situations described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section to occur.

(i) The 6-month period that ends 2 months before the Notification of Compliance Status is due, according to § 63.1335(e)(5); or the 6-month period that begins 3 months before the performance test and ends 3 months after the performance test.

(ii) Causing damage to equipment; necessitating that the owner or operator make product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or necessitating that the owner or operator make product in excess of demand.

(2) The requirements in § 63.1335(e)(5) shall apply instead of the references in § 63.7(g) to the Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.9(h).

(3) Because the site-specific test plans in § 63.7(c)(3) are not required, § 63.7(h)(4)(ii) is not applicable.

(4) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intention to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present during the test. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.

(5) Performance tests shall be performed no later than 150 days after the compliance dates specified in this subpart (i.e., in time for the results to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status), rather than according to the time periods in § 63.7(a)(2) of subpart A of this part.

(b) Each owner or operator of an existing affected source producing MBS complying with § 63.1315(b)(2) shall determine compliance with the mass emission per mass product standard by using Equation 49 of this subpart. When determining E, when the provisions of § 63.116(c)(4) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall conform with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section. During periods of startup or shutdown, as an alternative to using Equation 49 of this subpart, the owner or operator may divide the emission rate of total organic HAP or TOC during startup or shutdown by the rate of polymer produced from the most recent performance test associated with a production rate greater than zero to comply with the emission limit.

(1) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume.

(2) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(c) The owner or operator of an affected source, complying with § 63.1322(a)(3) shall determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement using Equation 50 of this subpart.

(d) Data shall be reduced in accordance with the EPA approved methods specified in the applicable subpart or, if other test methods are used, the data and methods shall be validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part.

(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, if an owner or operator of an affected source uses a flare to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration. If a compliance demonstration has been conducted previously for a flare, using the techniques specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section, that compliance demonstration may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if either no deliberate process changes have been made since the compliance demonstration, or the results of the compliance demonstration reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4);

(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted, using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6); and

(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.
