
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1334 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### Parameter monitoring excursion definitions.

(f)(1) With respect to storage vessels (where the applicable monitoring plan specifies continuous monitoring), continuous process vents, aggregate batch vent streams, and process wastewater streams, an excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iii) of this section. For a control or recovery device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control or recovery device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(i) When the daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.

(ii) When the period of control or recovery device operation, with the exception noted in paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section, is 4 hours or greater in an operating day, and monitoring data are insufficient, as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.

(iii) When the period of control or recovery device operation, with the exception noted in paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section, is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than two of the hours during the period of operation do not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data, as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section.

(iv) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (f)(1)(iii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour. For data compression systems approved under § 63.1335(g)(3), monitoring data are insufficient to calculate a valid hour of data if there are less than four data measurements made during the hour.

(v) The periods listed in paragraphs (f)(1)(v)(A) and (B) of this section are not considered to be part of the period of control or recovery device operation, for the purposes of paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(A) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or

(B) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(2) With respect to batch process vents, an excursion means one of the two cases listed in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (f)(2)(ii) of this section. For a control device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in either paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (f)(2)(ii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the control device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(i) When the batch cycle daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is above the maximum or below the minimum established level for the given parameters.

(ii) When monitoring data are insufficient for an operating day. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the 15-minute periods when batch emission episodes selected to be controlled are being vented to the control device during the operating day, using the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(ii)(A) through (f)(2)(ii)(D) of this section.

(A) Determine the total amount of time during the operating day when batch emission episodes selected to be controlled are being vented to the control device.

(B) Subtract the time during the periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments from the total amount of time determined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, to obtain the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient.

(C) Determine the total number of 15-minute periods in the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient, as was determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(D) If measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the total number of 15-minute periods determined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, the monitoring data are insufficient for the operating day.

(3) For storage vessels where the applicable monitoring plan does not specify continuous monitoring, an excursion is defined in paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. For a control or recovery device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria, this is considered a single excursion for the control or recovery device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(i) If the monitoring plan specifies monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (such as every 15 minutes or every hour), either of the cases listed in paragraph (f)(3)(i)(A) or (f)(3)(i)(B) of this section is considered a single excursion for the control device. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(A) When the average value of one or more parameters, averaged over the duration of the filling period for the storage vessel, is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.

(B) When monitoring data are insufficient. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the specific intervals at which parameters are to be monitored and recorded, according to the storage vessel's monitoring plan, during the filling period for the storage vessel.

(ii) If the monitoring plan does not specify monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (for example, if the relevant operating requirement is to exchange a disposable carbon canister before expiration of its rated service life), the monitoring plan shall define an excursion in terms of the relevant operating requirement.

(4) With respect to continuous process vents complying with the mass emissions per mass product requirements specified in § 63.1316(b)(1)(i)(A), (b)(1)(ii), (b)(2)(i), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(1)(i), an excursion has occurred when the mass emission rate calculated as specified in § 63.1318(c) exceeds the appropriate mass emissions per mass product requirement. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(5) With respect to continuous process vents complying with the temperature limits for final condensers specified in § 63.1316(b)(1)(i)(B) or (c)(1)(ii), an excursion has occurred when the daily average exit temperature exceeds the appropriate condenser temperature limit. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart. The periods listed in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section are not considered to be part of the period of operation for the condenser for purposes of determining the daily average exit temperature.

(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or

(ii) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(6) With respect to new affected sources producing SAN using a batch process, an excursion has occurred when the percent reduction calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.1333(c) is less than 84 percent. For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart. The periods listed in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section are not considered to be part of the period of control or recovery device operation for purposes of determining the percent reduction.

(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or

(ii) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(7) With respect to continuous process vents complying with the mass emissions per mass product requirement specified in § 63.1315(b)(2), an excursion has occurred when the mass emission rate calculated as specified in § 63.1333(b) exceeds the mass emissions per mass product requirement specified in § 63.1315(b)(2). For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart.
