
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Reporting and notification.

(e)In addition to the reports and notifications required by subpart A of this part as specified in Table 1 of this subpart, the owner or operator of an affected source shall prepare and submit the reports listed in paragraphs (e)(3) through (9) of this section, as applicable. All reports required by this subpart, and the schedule for their submittal, are listed in Table 9 of this subpart.

(1) Owners and operators shall not be in violation of the reporting requirements of this subpart for failing to submit information required to be included in a specified report if the owner or operator meets the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iii) of this section. Examples of circumstances where this paragraph may apply include information related to newly-added equipment or emission points, changes in the process, changes in equipment required or utilized for compliance with the requirements of this subpart, or changes in methods or equipment for monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting.

(i) The information was not known in time for inclusion in the report specified by this subpart;

(ii) The owner or operator has been diligent in obtaining the information; and

(iii) The owner or operator submits a report according to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A) through (e)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.

(A) If this subpart expressly provides for supplements to the report in which the information is required, the owner or operator shall submit the information as a supplement to that report. The information shall be submitted no later than 60 days after it is obtained, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.

(B) If this subpart does not expressly provide for supplements, but the owner or operator must submit a request for revision of an operating permit pursuant to part 70 or part 71, due to circumstances to which the information pertains, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the request for revision to the operating permit.

(C) In any case not addressed by paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (e)(1)(iii)(B) of this paragraph, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the first Periodic Report, as required by this subpart, which has a submission deadline at least 60 days after the information is obtained.

(2) All reports required under this subpart shall be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in ยง 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of an affected source, reports may be submitted on electronic media.
