
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Submittal dates.

(i)The Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than December 19, 2000. If a Precompliance Report was submitted prior to June 19, 2000 and no changes need to be made to that Precompliance Report, the owner or operator shall re-submit the earlier report or submit notification that the previously submitted report is still valid. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved. For new affected sources, the Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ix) of this section. To submit a Precompliance Report for the first time after the compliance date to request an extension for compliance; request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping or alternative controls; request approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, as described in § 63.1323(b)(6)(i)(C); or to request to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1334(c) or (d), the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 90 days before the planned change is to be implemented; the change shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the change in writing, or fails to disapprove the change in writing within 45 days of receipt.

(ii) A request for an extension for compliance, as specified in § 63.1311(e), may be submitted in the Precompliance Report. The request for a compliance extension shall include the data outlined in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D), as required in § 63.1311(e)(1).

(iii) The alternative monitoring parameter information required in paragraph (f) of this section shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of an affected source seeks to comply through the use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in this subpart or in subpart G of this part or seeks to comply by monitoring a different parameter than those specified in this subpart or in subpart G of this part.

(iv) If the affected source seeks to comply using alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a request for approval in the Precompliance Report.

(v) The owner or operator shall report the intent to use alternative emission standards to comply with the provisions of this subpart in the Precompliance Report. The Administrator may deem alternative emission standards to be equivalent to the standard required by the subpart, under the procedures outlined in § 63.6(g).

(vi) If a request for approval to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, as described in § 63.1323(b)(6)(i)(C) is being made, the information required by § 63.1323(b)(6)(iii)(B) shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report.

(vii) If an owner or operator establishes parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1334(c) or (d), the following information shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report:

(A) Identification of which procedures (i.e., § 63.1334(c) or (d)) are to be used; and

(B) A description of how the parameter monitoring level is to be established. If the procedures in § 63.1334(c) are to be used, a description of how performance test data will be used shall be included.

(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(ix)(A) or (e)(3)(ix)(B) of this section. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in a supplement to the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved.

(A) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to clarify or modify information previously submitted.

(B) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iii) of this section; to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section; to use alternative controls, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(v) of this section; to use engineering assessment to estimate emissions from a batch emissions episode, as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(vi) of this section; or to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1334(c) or (d), as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(vii) of this section.

(4) Emissions Averaging Plan. For all existing affected sources using emissions averaging, an Emissions Averaging Plan shall be submitted for approval according to the schedule and procedures described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. The Emissions Averaging Plan shall contain the information specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section, unless the information required in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section is submitted with an operating permit application. An owner or operator of an affected source who submits an operating permit application instead of an Emissions Averaging Plan shall submit the information specified in paragraph (e)(8) of this section. In addition, a supplement to the Emissions Averaging Plan, as required under paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section, is to be submitted whenever additional alternative controls or operating scenarios may be used to comply with this subpart. Updates to the Emissions Averaging Plan shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section.
