
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Recordkeeping and documentation.

(d)Owners or operators required to keep continuous records shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. If a monitoring plan for storage vessels pursuant to § 63.1314(a)(9) requires continuous records, the monitoring plan shall specify which provisions, if any, of paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section apply. As described in § 63.1314(a)(9), certain storage vessels are not required to keep continuous records as specified in this paragraph. Owners and operators of such storage vessels shall keep records as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.1314(a)(9). Paragraphs (d)(8) and (d)(9) of this section specify documentation requirements.

(1) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once every 15 minutes.

(2) The owner or operator shall record either each measured data value or block average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values. Owners or operators of batch process vents shall record each measured data value.

(3) Daily average (or batch cycle daily average) values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (d)(3)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (d)(6) and (d)(7) of this section.

(i) The daily average value or batch cycle daily average shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values recorded during the operating day, except as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. For batch process vents, as specified in § 63.1326(e)(2)(i), only parameter values measured during those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle that the owner or operator has chosen to control shall be used to calculate the average. The calculated average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous.

(ii) The operating day shall be the period the owner or operator specifies in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status for purposes of determining daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]
