
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Periodic Reports.

(6)For existing and new affected sources, the owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (xiii) of this section. In addition, for equipment leaks subject to § 63.1331, with the exception of § 63.1331(c), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.182(d) under the conditions listed in § 63.182(d), and for heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1328, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (e)(6). Section 63.1334 shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for Group 1 emissions points and for Group 1 and Group 2 emission points included in emissions averages with the following exception: As discussed in § 63.1314(a)(9), for storage vessels to which the provisions of § 63.1334 do not apply, as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.120(d)(2), the owner or operator is required to comply with the requirements set out in the monitoring plan, and monitoring records may be used to determine compliance.

(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(xi) and (e)(6)(xii) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section or containing the information in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (e)(6)(x) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 days after the end of each 6-month period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due.

(ii) If none of the compliance exceptions specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (e)(6)(ix) of this section occurred during the 6-month period, the Periodic Report required by paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section shall be a statement that there were no compliance exceptions as described in this paragraph for the 6-month period covered by that report and no activities specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (e)(6)(ix) of this section occurred during the 6-month period covered by that report.

(iii) For an owner or operator of an affected source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.1314 through 63.1330 for any emission point or process section, Periodic Reports shall include:

(A) All information specified in § 63.122 for storage vessels; §§ 63.117 and 63.118 and § 63.1320 for continuous process vents, as applicable; § 63.1327 for batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams; § 63.104 for heat exchange systems; and § 63.146 for process wastewater;

(B) The daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters for unexcused excursions, as defined in § 63.1334(f). For excursions caused by lack of monitoring data, the start-time and duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified.

(C) [Reserved]
