
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### § 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Notification of Compliance Status.

(5)For existing and new affected sources, a Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted. For equipment leaks subject to § 63.1331, the owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.182(c) in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for equipment leaks in the affected source, and an update shall be provided in the first Periodic Report that is due at least 150 days after each subsequent applicable compliance date for equipment leaks in the affected source. For all other emission points, including heat exchange systems, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (e)(5)(xi) of this section, as applicable, and shall be submitted no later than 150 days after the compliance dates specified in this subpart. For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1331(a)(9)(iii), the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraph (e)(5)(xii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.

(i) The results of any emission point group determinations, process section applicability determinations, performance tests, inspections, any other information used to demonstrate compliance, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information required to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status under §§ 63.1311(m), 63.122, and 63.1314 for storage vessels, § 63.117 for continuous process vents, § 63.146 for process wastewater, §§ 63.1316 through 63.1320 for continuous process vents subject to § 63.1316, § 63.1327 for batch process vents, § 63.1329 for process contact cooling towers, and § 63.1332 for emission points included in an emissions average. In addition, the owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) and (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) For performance tests, group determinations, and process section applicability determinations that are based on measurements, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report, as described in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section, for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information, from the test report, that is requested on a case-by-case basis by the Administrator shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(B) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(ii) For each monitored parameter for which a maximum or minimum level is required to be established under § 63.114(e) for continuous process vents, § 63.1324 for batch process vents and aggregate batch vent streams, § 63.143(f) for process wastewater, § 63.1332(m) for emission points in emissions averages, paragraph (e)(8) of this section, or paragraph (f) of this section, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (e)(5)(ii)(D) of this section, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application. Further, as described in § 63.1314(a)(9), for those storage vessels for which the monitoring plan required by § 63.1314(a)(9) specifies compliance with the provisions of § 63.1334, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (e)(5)(ii)(D) of this section for each monitored parameter, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application. For those storage vessels for which the monitoring plan required by § 63.1314(a)(9) does not require compliance with the provisions of § 63.1334, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in § 63.120(d)(3) as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit application.

(A) The required information shall include the specific maximum or minimum level of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.

(B) The required information shall include the rationale for the specific maximum or minimum level for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the level and a description of why the level indicates proper operation of the control device.

(C) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating day, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, for purposes of determining daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters.

(D) For batch process vents, the required information shall include a definition of each batch cycle that requires the control of one or more batch emission episodes during the cycle, as specified in § 63.1325(c)(2) and § 63.1334(b)(3)(iii).

(iii) For emission points included in an emissions average, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the values of all parameters needed for input to the emission credit and debit equations in § 63.1332 (g) and (h), calculated or measured according to the procedures in § 63.1332 (g) and (h), and the resulting calculation of credits and debits for the first quarter of the year. The first quarter begins on the compliance date specified.

(iv) The determination of applicability for flexible operation units as specified in § 63.1310(f).

(v) The parameter monitoring levels for flexible operation units, and the basis on which these levels were selected, or a demonstration that these levels are appropriate at all times, as specified in § 63.1310(f)(7).

(vi) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.1310(g), for storage vessels assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.

(vii) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.1310(h), for recovery operations equipment assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.

(viii) For owners or operators of Group 2 batch process vents establishing a batch mass input limitation as specified in § 63.1325(g), the affected source's operating year for purposes of determining compliance with the batch mass input limitation.

(ix) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.1311, and if the provisions of § 63.1311 allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.

(x) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility.

(xi) An owner or operator complying with paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator of the election to comply with paragraph (h)(1) of this section as part of the Notification of Compliance Status or as part of the appropriate Periodic Report as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ix) of this section.

(xii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release, and a description of how the owner or operator will determine the information to be recorded under paragraphs (d)(10)(v)(B) and (C) of this section (i.e., the duration of the pressure release and the methodology and calculations for determining of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release). For existing and new affected sources, the owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (xiii) of this section. In addition, for equipment leaks subject to § 63.1331, with the exception of § 63.1331(c), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.182(d) under the conditions listed in § 63.182(d), and for heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1328, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.104(f)(2) as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (e)(6).
