
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### 2

() The Administrator requests that the owner or operator submit quarterly reports for the emission point or process section.

(B) The quarterly reports shall include all information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (e)(6)(ix) of this section applicable to the emission point or process section for which quarterly reporting is required under paragraph (e)(6)(xii)(A) of this section. Information applicable to other emission points within the affected source shall be submitted in the semiannual reports required under paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section.

(C) Quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each quarter.

(D) After quarterly reports have been submitted for an emission point for 1 year without one or more excursions occurring (during that year), the owner or operator may return to semiannual reporting for the emission point or process section.

(xiii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(xiii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to ยง 63.1331(a)(9), report confirmation that all monitoring to show compliance was conducted within the reporting period.

(B) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to ยง 63.1331(a)(9)(ii), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, more than 5 calendar days after the pressure release.

(C) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to ยง 63.1331(a)(9)(iii), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:
