
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Group IV Polymers and Resins
###### ยง 63.1335 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Reduced recordkeeping program.

(h)For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment, the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements specified in paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section as alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions that would otherwise apply under this subpart. The owner or operator shall retain for a period of 5 years each record required by paragraph (h)(1) or (h)(2) of this section, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average (or batch cycle daily average) value, and is not required to retain more frequent monitored operating parameter values, for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment, if the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (h)(1)(vi) of this section are met. An owner or operator electing to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall notify the Administrator in the Notification of Compliance Status as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(xi) of this section or, if the Notification of Compliance Status has already been submitted, in the Periodic Report immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(ix) of this section.

(i) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unrealistic or impossible data during periods of operation (e.g., a temperature reading of -200 &#xB0;C on a boiler), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(ii) The monitoring system generates, updated at least hourly throughout each operating day, a running average of the monitoring values that have been obtained during that operating day, and the capability to observe this running average is readily available to the Administrator on-site during the operating day. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence of any period meeting the criteria in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section. All instances in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(A) The running average is above the maximum or below the minimum established limits; and

(B) The running average is based on at least six 1-hour average values.

(iii) The monitoring system is capable of detecting unchanging data during periods of operation, except in circumstances where the presence of unchanging data is the expected operating condition based on past experience (e.g., pH in some scrubbers), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(iv) The monitoring system will alert the owner or operator by an alarm or other means, if the running average parameter value calculated under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section reaches a set point that is appropriately related to the established limit for the parameter that is being monitored.

(v) The owner or operator shall verify the proper functioning of the monitoring system, including its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section, at the times specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(v)(A) through (h)(1)(v)(C). The owner or operator shall document that the required verifications occurred.

(A) Upon initial installation.

(B) Annually after initial installation.

(C) After any change to the programming or equipment constituting the monitoring system, which might reasonably be expected to alter the monitoring system's ability to comply with the requirements of this section.

(vi) The owner or operator shall retain the records identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(vi)(A) through (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.

(A) Identification of each parameter, for each item of equipment, for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h) of this section.

(B) A description of the applicable monitoring system(s), and of how compliance will be achieved with each requirement of paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (h)(1)(v) of this section. The description shall identify the location and format (e.g., on-line storage, log entries) for each required record. If the description changes, the owner or operator shall retain both the current and the most recent superseded description, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(D) of this section.

(C) A description, and the date, of any change to the monitoring system that would reasonably be expected to impair its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section.

(D) Owners and operators subject to paragraph (h)(1)(vi)(B) of this section shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current. The current description shall, at all times, be retained on-site or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain all superseded descriptions for at least 5 years after the date of their creation. Superseded descriptions shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request) for at least 6 months after their creation. Thereafter, superseded descriptions may be stored off-site.

(2) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average (or batch cycle daily average) value for any operating day when the daily average (or batch cycle daily average) value is less than the maximum or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months, if the parameter limit and the monitoring accomplished during the period prior to the compliance date was required and/or approved by the Administrator.

(i) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average (or batch cycle daily average) values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report as specified in paragraph (e)(6)(x) of this section. The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.

(ii) If, on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily average (or batch cycle daily average) values as provided in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average (or batch cycle daily average) value for each operating day and shall notify the Administrator in the next Periodic Report. The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average (or batch cycle daily average) value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iii) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, for the duration specified in this paragraph (h). For any calendar week, if compliance with paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of operation.

(iv) For purposes of paragraph (h) of this section, an excursion means that the daily average (or batch cycle daily average) value of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum, or less than the minimum established value.
