
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Emission Standards and Operating Limits
####### § 63.1346 Operating limits for kilns.

(a) The owner or operator of a kiln subject to a D/F emissions limitation under § 63.1343 must operate the kiln such that the temperature of the gas at the inlet to the kiln PM control device (PMCD) and alkali bypass PMCD, if applicable, does not exceed the applicable temperature limit specified in paragraph (b) of this section. The owner or operator of an in-line kiln/raw mill subject to a D/F emissions limitation under § 63.1343 must operate the in-line kiln/raw mill, such that:

(1) When the raw mill of the in-line kiln/raw mill is operating, the applicable temperature limit for the main in-line kiln/raw mill exhaust, specified in paragraph (b) of this section and established during the performance test when the raw mill was operating, is not exceeded, except during periods of startup and shutdown when the temperature limit may be exceeded by no more than 10 percent.

(2) When the raw mill of the in-line kiln/raw mill is not operating, the applicable temperature limit for the main in-line kiln/raw mill exhaust, specified in paragraph (b) of this section and established during the performance test when the raw mill was not operating, is not exceeded, except during periods of startup/shutdown when the temperature limit may be exceeded by no more than 10 percent.

(3) If the in-line kiln/raw mill is equipped with an alkali bypass, the applicable temperature limit for the alkali bypass specified in paragraph (b) of this section and established during the performance test, with or without the raw mill operating, is not exceeded, except during periods of startup/shutdown when the temperature limit may be exceeded by no more than 10 percent.

(b) The temperature limit for affected sources meeting the limits of paragraph (a) of this section or paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section is determined in accordance with § 63.1349(b)(3)(iv).

(c) For an affected source subject to a D/F emissions limitation under § 63.1343 that employs sorbent injection as an emission control technique for D/F control, you must operate the sorbent injection system in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The rolling three-hour average activated sorbent injection rate must be equal to or greater than the sorbent injection rate determined in accordance with § 63.1349(b)(3)(vi).

(2) You must either:

(i) Maintain the minimum activated carbon injection carrier gas flow rate, as a rolling three-hour average, based on the manufacturer's specifications. These specifications must be documented in the test plan developed in accordance with § 63.7(c), or

(ii) Maintain the minimum activated carbon injection carrier gas pressure drop, as a rolling three-hour average, based on the manufacturer's specifications. These specifications must be documented in the test plan developed in accordance with § 63.7(c).

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, for an affected source subject to a D/F emissions limitation under § 63.1343 that employs carbon injection as an emission control technique you must specify and use the brand and type of sorbent used during the performance test until a subsequent performance test is conducted, unless the site-specific performance test plan contains documentation of key parameters that affect adsorption and the owner or operator establishes limits based on those parameters, and the limits on these parameters are maintained.

(e) For an affected source subject to a D/F emissions limitation under § 63.1343 that employs carbon injection as an emission control technique you may substitute, at any time, a different brand or type of sorbent provided that the replacement has equivalent or improved properties compared to the sorbent specified in the site-specific performance test plan and used in the performance test. The owner or operator must maintain documentation that the substitute sorbent will provide the same or better level of control as the original sorbent.

(f) No kiln may use as a raw material or fuel any fly ash where the mercury content of the fly ash has been increased through the use of activated carbon, or any other sorbent, unless the facility can demonstrate that the use of that fly ash will not result in an increase in mercury emissions over baseline emissions (i.e., emissions not using the fly ash). The facility has the burden of proving there has been no emissions increase over baseline. Once the kiln is in compliance with a mercury emissions limit specified in § 63.1343, this paragraph no longer applies.

(g) During periods of startup and shutdown you must meet the requirements listed in (g)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) During startup you must use any one or combination of the following clean fuels: natural gas, synthetic natural gas, propane, distillate oil, synthesis gas (syngas), and ultra-low sulfur diesel (ULSD) until the kiln reaches a temperature of 1200 degrees Fahrenheit.

(2) Combustion of the primary kiln fuel may commence once the kiln temperature reaches 1200 degrees Fahrenheit.

(3) All dry sorbent and activated carbon systems that control hazardous air pollutants must be turned on and operating at the time the gas stream at the inlet to the baghouse or ESP reaches 300 degrees Fahrenheit (five minute average) during startup. Temperature of the gas stream is to be measured at the inlet of the baghouse or ESP every minute. Such injection systems can be turned off during shutdown. Particulate control and all remaining devices that control hazardous air pollutants should be operational during startup and shutdown.

(4) You must keep records as specified in § 63.1355 during periods of startup and shutdown.
