
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Emission Standards and Operating Limits
####### ยง 63.1343 What standards apply to my kilns, clinker coolers, raw material dryers, and open clinker storage piles?
######## Open clinker storage pile.

(c)The owner or operator of an open clinker storage pile must prepare, and operate in accordance with, the fugitive dust emissions control measures, described in their operation and maintenance plan (see ยง 63.1347 of this subpart), that is appropriate for the site conditions as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The operation and maintenance plan must also describe the measures that will be used to minimize fugitive dust emissions from piles of clinker, such as accidental spillage, that are not part of open clinker storage piles.

(1) The operation and maintenance plan must identify and describe the location of each current or future open clinker storage pile and the fugitive dust emissions control measures the owner or operator will use to minimize fugitive dust emissions from each open clinker storage pile.

(2) For open clinker storage piles, the operations and maintenance plan must specify that one or more of the following control measures will be used to minimize to the greatest extent practicable fugitive dust from open clinker storage piles: Locating the source inside a partial enclosure, installing and operating a water spray or fogging system, applying appropriate chemical dust suppression agents, use of a wind barrier, compaction, use of tarpaulin or other equally effective cover or use of a vegetative cover. You must select, for inclusion in the operations and maintenance plan, the fugitive dust control measure or measures listed in this paragraph that are most appropriate for site conditions. The plan must also explain how the measure or measures selected are applicable and appropriate for site conditions. In addition, the plan must be revised as needed to reflect any changing conditions at the source.

(3) Temporary piles of clinker that result from accidental spillage or clinker storage cleaning operations must be cleaned up within 3 days.
