
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Emission Standards and Operating Limits
####### ยง 63.1348 Compliance requirements.
######## Changes in operations.

(c)(1) If you plan to undertake a change in operations that may adversely affect compliance with an applicable standard, operating limit, or parametric monitoring value under this subpart, the source must conduct a performance test as specified in ยง 63.1349(b).

(2) In preparation for and while conducting a performance test required in ยง 63.1349(b), you may operate under the planned operational change conditions for a period not to exceed 360 hours, provided that the conditions in (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iv) of this section are met. You must submit temperature and other monitoring data that are recorded during the pretest operations.

(i) You must provide the Administrator written notice at least 60 days prior to undertaking an operational change that may adversely affect compliance with an applicable standard under this subpart for any source, or as soon as practicable where 60 days advance notice is not feasible. Notice provided under this paragraph must include a description of the planned change, the emissions standards that may be affected by the change, and a schedule for completion of the performance test required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, including when the planned operational change period would begin.

(ii) The performance test results must be documented in a test report according to ยง 63.1349(a).

(iii) A test plan must be made available to the Administrator prior to performance testing, if requested.

(iv) The performance test must be completed within 360 hours after the planned operational change period begins.
