
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## e.g.,

(C) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp or digital output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (average all your PM CPMS output values for three corresponding Method 5I test runs).

(ii) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii) through (iv) of this section. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp or digital equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test to establish your operating limit. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test. You must repeat the performance test at least annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.

(iii) If the average of your three Method 5 or 5I compliance test runs is below 75 percent of your PM emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of PM CPMS signal to PM concentration using the PM CPMS instrument zero, the average PM CPMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average PM concentration from the Method 5 or 5I compliance test with the procedures in (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Determine your PM CPMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures:
