
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## PM emissions tests.

(b)(1)The owner or operator of a kiln and clinker cooler subject to limitations on PM emissions shall demonstrate initial compliance by conducting a performance test using Method 5 or Method 5I at appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter. You must also monitor continuous performance through use of a PM continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS).

(i) For your PM CPMS, you will establish a site-specific operating limit. If your PM performance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test, the milliamp or digital equivalent of zero output from your PM CPMS, and the average PM result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test to establish your operating limit. You will use the PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with your operating limit. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.

(A) Your PM CPMS must provide a 4-20 milliamp or digital signal output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of milliamps or the monitors digital equivalent.

(B) Your PM CPMS operating range must be capable of reading PM concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to three times your allowable emission limit. If your PM CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading PM concentration from zero to a level equivalent to three times your allowable emission limit.
