
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### § 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## HCl emissions tests.

(6)For a source subject to limitations on HCl emissions you must conduct performance testing by one of the following methods:

(i)(A) If the source is equipped with a wet scrubber, tray tower or dry scrubber, you must conduct performance testing using Method 321 of appendix A to this part unless you have installed a CEMS that meets the requirements § 63.1350(l)(1). For kilns with inline raw mills, testing must be conducted for the raw mill on and raw mill off conditions.

(B) You must establish site specific parameter limits by using the CPMS required in § 63.1350(l)(1). For a wet scrubber or tray tower, measure and record the pressure drop across the scrubber and/or liquid flow rate and pH in intervals of no more than 15 minutes during the HCl test. Compute and record the 24-hour average pressure drop, pH, and average scrubber water flow rate for each sampling run in which the applicable emissions limit is met. For a dry scrubber, measure and record the sorbent injection rate in intervals of no more than 15 minutes during the HCl test. Compute and record the 24-hour average sorbent injection rate and average sorbent injection rate for each sampling run in which the applicable emissions limit is met.

(ii)(A) If the source is not controlled by a wet scrubber, tray tower or dry sorbent injection system, you must operate a CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l)(1). See § 63.1348(a).

(B) The initial compliance test must be based on the 30 kiln operating days that occur after the compliance date of this rule in which the affected source operates using an HCl CEMS. Hourly HCl concentration data must be obtained according to § 63.1350(l).

(iii) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(6)(i)(B) of this section, you may choose to monitor SOemissions using a CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l)(3). You must establish an SOoperating limit equal to the average recorded during the HCl stack test where the HCl stack test run result demonstrates compliance with the emission limit. This operating limit will apply only for demonstrating HCl compliance.

(iv) If kiln gases are diverted through an alkali bypass or to a coal mill and exhausted through a separate stack, you must calculate a kiln-specific HCl limit using Equation 11:

(v) As an alternative to paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator may demonstrate initial compliance by conducting a performance test using Method 321 of appendix A to this part. You must also monitor continuous performance through use of an HCl CPMS according to paragraphs (b)(6)(v)(A) through (H) of this section. For kilns with inline raw mills, compliance testing and monitoring HCl to establish the site specific operating limit must be conducted during both raw mill on and raw mill off conditions.

(A) For your HCl CPMS, you must establish a 30 kiln operating day site-specific operating limit. If your HCl performance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be less than 75 percent of your emission limit (2.25 ppmvd @7% O), you must use the time weighted average HCl CPMS indicated value recorded during the HCl compliance test (typically measured as ppmvw HCl at stack Oconcentration, but a dry, oxygen corrected value would also suffice), your HCl instrument zero output value, and the time weighted average HCl result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. If your HCl compliance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit (2.25 ppmvd @7% O), you must use the time weighted average HCl CPMS indicated value recorded during the HCl compliance test as your operating limit. You must use the HCl CPMS indicated signal data to demonstrate continuous compliance with your operating limit.
