
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## THC emissions test.

(4)(i) If you are subject to limitations on THC emissions, you must operate a CEMS in accordance with the requirements in ยง 63.1350(i). For the purposes of conducting the accuracy and quality assurance evaluations for CEMS, the THC span value (as propane) is 50 to 60 ppmvw and the reference method (RM) is Method 25A of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(ii) Use the THC CEMS to conduct the initial compliance test for the first 30 kiln operating days of kiln operation after the compliance date of the rule. See ยง 63.1348(a).

(iii) If kiln gases are diverted through an alkali bypass or to a coal mill and exhausted through a separate stack, you must calculate a kiln-specific THC limit using Equation 9:

(iv) THC must be measured either upstream of the coal mill or the coal mill stack.

(v) Instead of conducting the performance test specified in paragraph (b)(4)of this section, you may conduct a performance test to determine emissions of total organic HAP by following the procedures in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.
