
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## 3,e.g.,

() During the initial performance test of a kiln with an inline raw mill, or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the HCl limit, record and average the indicated ppm HCl output values from the HCl CPMS for each of the six periods corresponding to the compliance test runs (average each of your HCl CPMS output values for six corresponding Method 321 test runs). With the average values of the six test runs, calculate the average of the three mill on test runs and the average of the three mill off test runs. Calculate the time weighted result using the average of the three mill on tests and the average of the three mill off tests and the previous annual ratio of mill on/mill off operations. Kilns without an inline raw mill will conduct three compliance tests and calculate the average monitor output values corresponding to these three test runs and not use time weighted values to determine their site specific operating limit.

(B) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) or (iii) of this section. If your HCl performance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be below 75 percent of your emission limit, kilns with inline raw mills will use the time weighted average indicated HCl ppm concentration CPMS value recorded during the HCl compliance test, the zero value output from your HCl CPMS, and the time weighted average HCl result of your compliance test to establish your operating limit. Kilns without inline raw mills will not use a time weighted average value to establish their operating limit. If your time weighted HCl compliance test demonstrates your HCl emission levels to be at or above 75 percent of your emission limit, you will use the time weighted HCl CPMS indicated ppm value recorded during the HCl compliance test to establish your operating limit. Kilns without inline raw mills will not use time weighted compliance test results to make this determination. You must verify an existing operating limit or establish a new operating limit for each kiln, after each repeated performance test.
