
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## 5

() Determine your source specific 30 kiln operating day operating limit using HC1 CPMS indicated value from Equation 11c in Equation 11d, below. This sets your operating limit at the HC1 CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.

(D) If the average of your HCl compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your HCl emission limit (2.25 ppmvd@7% O) you must determine your operating limit by averaging the HCl CPMS output corresponding to your HCl performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using Equation 11e.

(E) To determine continuous compliance with the operating limit, you must record the HCl CPMS indicated output data for all periods when the process is operating and use all the HCl CPMS data for calculations when the source is not out of control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the HCl CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (ppmvw) on a 30 kiln operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 11f to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.

(F) If you exceed the 30 kiln operating day operating limit, you must evaluate the control system operation and re-set the operating limit.

(G) The owner or operator of a kiln with an inline raw mill and subject to limitations on HCl emissions must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting separate performance tests while the raw mill is on and while the raw mill is off. Using the fraction of time the raw mill is on calculate your HCl CPMS limit as a weighted average of the HCl CPMS indicated values measured during raw mill on and raw mill off compliance testing using Equation 11g.

(H) Paragraph (b)(6)(v) of this section expires on July 25, 2017 at which time the owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with paragraphs (b)(6)(i), (ii), or (iii).
