
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### § 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## Total Organic HAP Emissions Tests.

(7)Instead of conducting the performance test specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, you may conduct a performance test to determine emissions of total organic HAP by following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Use Method 320 of appendix A to this part, Method 18 of Appendix A of part 60, ASTM D6348-03 or a combination to determine emissions of total organic HAP. Each performance test must consist of three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the representative performance conditions in accordance with § 63.7(e). Each run must be conducted for at least 1 hour.

(ii) At the same time that you are conducting the performance test for total organic HAP, you must also determine a site-specific THC emissions limit by operating a THC CEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(j). The duration of the performance test must be at least 3 hours and the average THC concentration (as calculated from the recorded output) during the 3-hour test must be calculated. You must establish your THC operating limit and determine compliance with it according to paragraphs (b)(7)(vii) and (viii) of this section. It is permissible to extend the testing time of the organic HAP performance test if you believe extended testing is required to adequately capture organic HAP and/or THC variability over time.

(iii) If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must use the fraction of time the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off and calculate this limit as a weighted average of the THC levels measured during three raw mill on and three raw mill off tests.

(iv) If your organic HAP emissions are below 75 percent of the organic HAP standard and you determine your operating limit with paragraph (b)(7)(vii) of this section your THC CEMS must be calibrated and operated on a measurement scale no greater than 180 ppmvw, as carbon, or 60 ppmvw as propane.

(v) If your kiln has an inline coal mill and/or an alkali bypass with separate stacks, you are required to measure and account for oHAP emissions from their separate stacks. You are required to measure oHAP at the coal mill inlet or outlet and you must also measure oHAP at the alkali bypass outlet. You must then calculate a flow weighted average oHAP concentration for all emission sources including the inline coal mill and the alkali bypass.

(vi) Your THC CEMS measurement scale must be capable of reading THC concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to two times your highest THC emissions average determined during your performance test, including mill on or mill off operation.This may require the use of a dual range instrument to meet this requirement and paragraph (b)(7)(iv) of this section.

(vii) Determine your operating limit as specified in paragraphs (b)(7)(viii) and (ix) of this section. If your organic HAP performance test demonstrates your average organic HAP emission levels are below 75 percent of your emission limit (9 ppmv) you will use the average THC value recorded during the organic HAP performance test, and the average total organic HAP result of your performance test to establish your operating limit. If your organic HAP compliance test results demonstrate that your average organic HAP emission levels are at or above 75 percent of your emission limit, your operating limit is established as the average THC value recorded during the organic HAP performance test. You must establish a new operating limit after each performance test. You must repeat the performance test no later than 30 months following your last performance test and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.

(viii) If the average organic HAP results for your three Method 18 and/or Method 320 performance test runs are below 75 percent of your organic HAP emission limit, you must calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of THC CEMS signal to the organic HAP concentration using the average THC CEMS value corresponding to the three organic HAP compliance test runs and the average organic HAP total concentration from the Method 18 and/or Method 320 performance test runs with the procedures in (b)(7)(viii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Determine the THC CEMS average value in ppmvw, and the average of your corresponding three total organic HAP compliance test runs, using Equation 12.

(B) You must use your 3-run average THC CEMS value and your 3-run average organic HAP concentration from your Method 18 and/or Method 320 compliance tests to determine the operating limit. Use equation 13 to determine your operating limit in units of ppmvw THC, as propane.

(ix) If the average of your three organic HAP performance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your organic HAP emission limit, you must determine your operating limit using Equation 14 by averaging the THC CEMS output values corresponding to your three organic HAP performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit. If your new THC CEMS value is below your current operating limit, you may opt to retain your current operating limit, but you must still submit all performance test and THC CEMS data according to the reporting requirements in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(x) If your kiln has an inline kiln/raw mill, you must conduct separate performance tests while the raw mill is operating ("mill on") and while the raw mill is not operating ("mill off"). Using the fraction of time the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off, calculate this limit as a weighted average of the THC levels measured during raw mill on and raw mill off compliance testing with Equation 15.

(xi) To determine continuous compliance with the THC operating limit, you must record the THC CEMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the THC CEMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the THC CEMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (ppmvw) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 16 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.

(xii) Use EPA Method 18 or Method 320 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine organic HAP emissions. For each performance test, conduct at least three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must conduct three separate test runs with the raw mill on, and three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur with the mill off. Conduct each Method 18 test run to collect a minimum target sample equivalent to three times the method detection limit. Calculate the average of the results from three runs to determine compliance.

(xiii) If the THC level exceeds by 10 percent or more your site-specific THC emissions limit, you must

(A) As soon as possible but no later than 30 days after the exceedance, conduct an inspection and take corrective action to return the THC CEMS measurements to within the established value; and

(B) Within 90 days of the exceedance or at the time of the 30 month compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct another performance test to determine compliance with the organic HAP limit and to verify or re-establish your site-specific THC emissions limit.

(8) HCl Emissions Tests with SOMonitoring. If you choose to monitor SOemissions using a CEMS to demonstrate HCl compliance, follow the procedures in (b)(8)(i) through (ix) of this section and in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l)(3). You must establish an SOoperating limit equal to the average recorded during the HCl stack test. This operating limit will apply only for demonstrating HCl compliance.

(i) Use Method 321 of appendix A to this part to determine emissions of HCl. Each performance test must consist of three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the representative performance conditions in accordance with § 63.7(e). Each run must be conducted for at least one hour.

(ii) At the same time that you are conducting the performance test for HCl, you must also determine a site-specific SOemissions limit by operating an SOCEMS in accordance with the requirements of § 63.1350(l). The duration of the performance test must be three hours and the average SOconcentration (as calculated from the average output) during the 3-hour test must be calculated. You must establish your SOoperating limit and determine compliance with it according to paragraphs (b)(8)(vii) and (viii) of this section.

(iii) If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must use the fraction of time the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off and calculate this limit as a weighted average of the SOlevels measured during raw mill on and raw mill off testing.

(iv) Your SOCEMS must be calibrated and operated according to the requirements of § 60.63(f).

(v) Your SOCEMS measurement scale must be capable of reading SOconcentrations consistent with the requirements of § 60.63(f), including mill on or mill off operation.

(vi) If your kiln has an inline kiln/raw mill, you must conduct separate performance tests while the raw mill is operating ("mill on") and while the raw mill is not operating ("mill off"). Using the fraction of time that the raw mill is on and the fraction of time that the raw mill is off, calculate this limit as a weighted average of the SOlevels measured during raw mill on and raw mill off compliance testing with Equation 17.

(vii) If the average of your three HCl compliance test runs is below 75 percent of your HCl emission limit, you may as a compliance alternative, calculate an operating limit by establishing a relationship of SOCEMS signal to your HCl concentration corrected to 7 percent Oby using the SOCEMS instrument zero, the average SOCEMS values corresponding to the three compliance test runs, and the average HCl concentration from the HCl compliance test with the procedures in (b)(8)(vii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Determine your SOCEMS instrument zero output with one of the following procedures:
