
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1349 Performance testing requirements.
######## 4,1,3

() If none of the steps in paragraphs (b)(8)(vii)(A)() through () of this section are possible, you must use a zero output value provided by the manufacturer.

(B) Determine your SOCEMS instrument average ppmv, and the average of your corresponding three HCl compliance test runs, using Equation 18.

(C) With your instrument zero expressed in ppmv, your SOCEMS three run average expressed in ppmv, and your 3-run HCl compliance test average in ppmvd, corrected to 7 percent O, determine a relationship of ppmvd HCl corrected to 7 percent Oper ppmv SOwith Equation 19.

(D) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using ppm HCl corrected to 7 percent Oper ppm SOvalue from Equation 19 in Equation 20, below. This sets your operating limit at the SOCEMS ppm value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.

(viii) To determine continuous compliance with the SOoperating limit, you must record the SOCEMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the SOCEMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the SOCEMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (ppmvw) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day. Use Equation 21 to determine the 30 kiln operating day average.

(ix) Use EPA Method 321 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine HCl emissions. For each performance test, conduct at least three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur. If your source has an in-line kiln/raw mill you must conduct three separate test runs with the raw mill on, and three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the level reasonably expected to occur with the mill off.

(x) If the SOlevel exceeds by 10 percent or more your site-specific SOemissions limit, you must:

(A) As soon as possible but no later than 30 days after the exceedance, conduct an inspection and take corrective action to return the SOCEMS measurements to within the established value;

(B) Within 90 days of the exceedance or at the time of the periodic compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct another performance test to determine compliance with the HCl limit and to verify or re-establish your site-specific SOemissions limit.
