
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1350 Monitoring requirements.
######## Monitoring requirements for sources using sorbent injection.

(h)If you are subject to an operating limit on D/F emissions that employs carbon injection as an emission control technique, you must comply with the additional monitoring requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) and paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(4) and (m)(9) of this section. You must also develop an emissions monitoring plan in accordance with paragraphs (p)(1) through (p)(4) of this section.

(1) Install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous monitor to record the rate of activated carbon injection. The accuracy of the rate measurement device must be +/-1 percent of the rate being measured.

(i) Verify the calibration of the device at least once every three months.

(ii) Each hour, calculate the three-hour rolling average activated carbon injection rate for the previous three hours of process operation. See ยง 63.1349(b)(3).

(iii) When the operating status of the raw mill of the in-line kiln/raw mill is changed from off to on or from on to off, the calculation of the three-hour rolling average activated carbon injection rate must begin anew, without considering previous recordings.

(2)(i) Install, operate, calibrate, and maintain a continuous monitor to record the activated carbon injection system carrier gas parameter (either the carrier gas flow rate or the carrier gas pressure drop) established during the D/F performance test in accordance with ยง 63.1349(b)(3).
