
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1350 Monitoring requirements.
######## Opacity monitoring requirements.

(f)If you are subject to a limitation on opacity under ยง 63.1345, you must conduct required opacity monitoring in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section and in accordance with your monitoring plan developed under ยง 63.1350(p). You must also develop an opacity monitoring plan in accordance with paragraphs (p)(1) through (4) and paragraph (o)(5), if applicable, of this section.

(1)(i) You must conduct a monthly 10-minute visible emissions test of each affected source in accordance with Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. The performance test must be conducted while the affected source is in operation.

(ii) If no visible emissions are observed in six consecutive monthly tests for any affected source, the owner or operator may decrease the frequency of performance testing from monthly to semi-annually for that affected source. If visible emissions are observed during any semi-annual test, you must resume performance testing of that affected source on a monthly basis and maintain that schedule until no visible emissions are observed in six consecutive monthly tests.

(iii) If no visible emissions are observed during the semi-annual test for any affected source, you may decrease the frequency of performance testing from semi-annually to annually for that affected source. If visible emissions are observed during any annual performance test, the owner or operator must resume performance testing of that affected source on a monthly basis and maintain that schedule until no visible emissions are observed in six consecutive monthly tests.

(iv) If visible emissions are observed during any Method 22 performance test, of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, you must conduct 30 minutes of opacity observations, recorded at 15-second intervals, in accordance with Method 9 of appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter. The Method 9 performance test, of appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter, must begin within 1 hour of any observation of visible emissions.

(v) Any totally enclosed conveying system transfer point, regardless of the location of the transfer point is not required to conduct Method 22 visible emissions monitoring under this paragraph. The enclosures for these transfer points must be operated and maintained as total enclosures on a continuing basis in accordance with the facility operations and maintenance plan.

(vi) If any partially enclosed or unenclosed conveying system transfer point is located in a building, you must conduct a Method 22 performance test, of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, according to the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section for each such conveying system transfer point located within the building, or for the building itself, according to paragraph (f)(1)(vii) of this section.

(vii) If visible emissions from a building are monitored, the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (f)(1)(iv) of this section apply to the monitoring of the building, and you must also test visible emissions from each side, roof, and vent of the building for at least 10 minutes.

(2)(i) For a raw mill or finish mill, you must monitor opacity by conducting daily visible emissions observations of the mill sweep and air separator PM control devices (PMCD) of these affected sources in accordance with the procedures of Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. The duration of the Method 22 performance test must be 6 minutes.

(ii) Within 24 hours of the end of the Method 22 performance test in which visible emissions were observed, the owner or operator must conduct a follow up Method 22 performance test of each stack from which visible emissions were observed during the previous Method 22 performance test.

(iii) If visible emissions are observed during the follow-up Method 22 performance test required by paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section from any stack from which visible emissions were observed during the previous Method 22 performance test required by paragraph (f)(2)(i) of the section, you must then conduct an opacity test of each stack from which emissions were observed during the follow up Method 22 performance test in accordance with Method 9 of appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter. The duration of the Method 9 test must be 30 minutes.

(3) If visible emissions are observed during any Method 22 visible emissions test conducted under paragraphs (f)(1) or (2) of this section, you must initiate, within one-hour, the corrective actions specified in your operation and maintenance plan as required in ยง 63.1347.

(4) The requirements under paragraph (f)(2) of this section to conduct daily Method 22 testing do not apply to any specific raw mill or finish mill equipped with a COMS or BLDS.

(i) If the owner or operator chooses to install a COMS in lieu of conducting the daily visible emissions testing required under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, then the COMS must be installed at the outlet of the PM control device of the raw mill or finish mill and the COMS must be installed, maintained, calibrated, and operated as required by the general provisions in subpart A of this part and according to PS-1 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.

(ii) If you choose to install a BLDS in lieu of conducting the daily visible emissions testing required under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, the requirements in paragraphs (m)(1) through (m)(4), (m)(10) and (m)(11) of this section apply.
