
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1350 Monitoring requirements.
######## D/F monitoring requirements.

(g)If you are subject to an emissions limitation on D/F emissions, you must comply with the monitoring requirements of paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) and (m)(1) through (4) of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance with the D/F emissions standard. You must also develop an emissions monitoring plan in accordance with paragraphs (p)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a CMS to record the temperature of the exhaust gases from the kiln and alkali bypass, if applicable, at the inlet to, or upstream of, the kiln and/or alkali bypass PMCDs.

(i) The temperature recorder response range must include zero and 1.5 times the average temperature established according to the requirements in ยง 63.1349(b)(3)(iv).

(ii) The calibration reference for the temperature measurement must be a National Institute of Standards and Technology calibrated reference thermocouple-potentiometer system or alternate reference, subject to approval by the Administrator.

(iii) The calibration of all thermocouples and other temperature sensors must be verified at least once every three months.

(2) You must monitor and continuously record the temperature of the exhaust gases from the kiln and alkali bypass, if applicable, at the inlet to the kiln and/or alkali bypass PMCD.

(3) The required minimum data collection frequency must be one minute.

(4) Every hour, record the calculated rolling three-hour average temperature using the average of 180 successive one-minute average temperatures. See ยง 63.1349(b)(3).

(5) When the operating status of the raw mill of the in-line kiln/raw mill is changed from off to on or from on to off, the calculation of the three-hour rolling average temperature must begin anew, without considering previous recordings.
