
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1350 Monitoring requirements.
######## PM monitoring requirements.,PM CPMS.

(b)(1)(i)You will use a PM CPMS to establish a site-specific operating limit corresponding to the results of the performance test demonstrating compliance with the PM limit. You will conduct your performance test using Method 5 or Method 5I at appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter. You will use the PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with this operating limit. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test using the procedures in ยง 63.1349(b)(1) (i) through (vi) of this subpart. You must also repeat the test if you change the analytical range of the instrument, or if you replace the instrument itself or any principle analytical component of the instrument that would alter the relationship of output signal to in-stack PM concentration.

(ii) To determine continuous compliance, you must use the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the PM CPMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new kiln operating day.

(iii) For any exceedance of the 30 process operating day PM CPMS average value from the established operating parameter limit, you must:

(A) Within 48 hours of the exceedance, visually inspect the APCD;

(B) If inspection of the APCD identifies the cause of the exceedance, take corrective action as soon as possible and return the PM CPMS measurement to within the established value; and

(C) Within 30 days of the exceedance or at the time of the annual compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct a PM emissions compliance test to determine compliance with the PM emissions limit and to verify or re-establish the PM CPMS operating limit within 45 days. You are not required to conduct additional testing for any exceedances that occur between the time of the original exceedance and the PM emissions compliance test required under this paragraph.

(iv) PM CPMS exceedances leading to more than four required performance tests in a 12-month process operating period (rolling monthly) constitute a presumptive violation of this subpart.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) [Reserved]
