
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### ยง 63.1350 Monitoring requirements.
######## HCl Monitoring Requirements.

(l)If you are subject to an emissions limitation on HCl emissions in ยง 63.1343, you must monitor HCl emissions continuously according to paragraph (l)(1) or (2) and paragraphs (m)(1) through (4) of this section or, if your kiln is controlled using a wet or dry scrubber or tray tower, you alternatively may parametrically monitor SOemissions continuously according to paragraph (l)(3) of this section. You must also develop an emissions monitoring plan in accordance with paragraphs (p)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) If you monitor compliance with the HCl emissions limit by operating an HCl CEMS, you must do so in accordance with Performance Specification (PS) 15 or PS 18 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, or, upon promulgation, in accordance with any other performance specification for HCl CEMS in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. You must operate, maintain, and quality assure a HCl CEMS installed and certified under PS 15 according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter except that the Relative Accuracy Test Audit requirements of Procedure 1 must be replaced with the validation requirements and criteria of sections 11.1.1 and 12.0 of PS 15. If you choose to install and operate an HCl CEMS in accordance with PS 18, you must operate, maintain, and quality assure the HCl CEMS using the associated Procedure 6 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter. For any performance specification that you use, you must use Method 321 of appendix A to this part as the reference test method for conducting relative accuracy testing. The span value and calibration requirements in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section apply to HCl CEMS other than those installed and certified under PS 15 or PS 18.

(i) You must use a measurement span value for any HCl CEMS of 0-10 ppmvw unless the monitor is installed on a kiln without an inline raw mill. Kilns without an inline raw mill may use a higher span value sufficient to quantify all expected emissions concentrations. The HCl CEMS data recorder output range must include the full range of expected HCl concentration values which would include those expected during "mill off" conditions. The corresponding data recorder range shall be documented in the site-specific monitoring plan and associated records.

(ii) In order to quality assure data measured above the span value, you must use one of the three options in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Include a second span that encompasses the HCl emission concentrations expected to be encountered during "mill off" conditions. This second span may be rounded to a multiple of 5 ppm of total HCl. The requirements of the appropriate HCl monitor performance specification shall be followed for this second span with the exception that a RATA with the mill off is not required.

(B) Quality assure any data above the span value by proving instrument linearity beyond the span value established in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section using the following procedure. Conduct a weekly "above span linearity" calibration challenge of the monitoring system using a reference gas with a certified value greater than your highest expected hourly concentration or greater than 75 percent of the highest measured hourly concentration. The "above span" reference gas must meet the requirements of the applicable performance specification and must be introduced to the measurement system at the probe. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The "above span linearity" challenge is successful if the value measured by the HCl CEMS falls within 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the HCl CEMS during the above span linearity challenge exceeds 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, the monitoring system must be evaluated and repaired and a new "above span linearity" challenge met before returning the HCl CEMS to service, or data above span from the HCl CEMS must be subject to the quality assurance procedures established in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(D) of this section. Any HCl CEMS above span linearity challenge response exceeding +/-20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas requires that all above span hourly averages during the week following the above span linearity challenge must be normalized using Equation 23.

(C) Quality assure any data above the span value established in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section using the following procedure. Any time two consecutive one-hour average measured concentration of HCl exceeds the span value you must, within 24 hours before or after, introduce a higher, "above span" HCl reference gas standard to the HCl CEMS. The "above span" reference gas must meet the requirements of the applicable performance specification and target a concentration level between 50 and 150 percent of the highest expected hourly concentration measured during the period of measurements above span, and must be introduced at the probe. While this target represents a desired concentration range that is not always achievable in practice, it is expected that the intent to meet this range is demonstrated by the value of the reference gas. Expected values may include above span calibrations done before or after the above-span measurement period. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The "above span" calibration is successful if the value measured by the HCl CEMS is within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the HCl CEMS is not within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, then you must normalize the stack gas values measured above span as described in paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(D) of this section.
