
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Monitoring and Compliance Provisions
####### § 63.1350 Monitoring requirements.
######## Mercury monitoring requirements.

(k)If you have a kiln subject to an emissions limitation on mercury emissions, you must install and operate a mercury continuous emissions monitoring system (Hg CEMS) in accordance with Performance Specification 12A (PS 12A) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system in accordance with Performance Specification 12B (PS 12B) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter. You must monitor mercury continuously according to paragraphs (k)(1) through (5) of this section. You must also develop an emissions monitoring plan in accordance with paragraphs (p)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must use a span value for any Hg CEMS that represents the mercury concentration corresponding to approximately two times the emissions standard and may be rounded up to the nearest multiple of 5 µg/mof total mercury or higher level if necessary to include Hg concentrations which may occur (excluding concentrations during in-line raw "mill off" operation). As specified in PS 12A, Section 6.1.1, the data recorder output range must include the full range of expected Hg concentration values which would include those expected during "mill off" conditions. Engineering judgments made and calculations used to determine the corresponding span concentration from the emission standard shall be documented in the site-specific monitoring plan and associated records.

(2) In order to quality assure data measured above the span value, you must use one of the four options in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Include a second span that encompasses the Hg emission concentrations expected to be encountered during "mill off" conditions. This second span may be rounded to a multiple of 5 µg/mof total mercury. The requirements of PS 12A, shall be followed for this second span with the exception that a RATA with the mill off is not required.

(ii) Quality assure any data above the span value by proving instrument linearity beyond the span value established in paragraph (k)(1) of this section using the following procedure. Conduct a weekly "above span linearity" calibration challenge of the monitoring system using a reference gas with a certified value greater than your highest expected hourly concentration or greater than 75 percent of the highest measured hourly concentration. The "above span" reference gas must meet the requirements of PS 12A, Section 7.1 and must be introduced to the measurement system at the probe. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The "above span linearity" challenge is successful if the value measured by the Hg CEMS falls within 10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the Hg CEMS during the above span linearity challenge exceeds +/-10 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, the monitoring system must be evaluated and repaired and a new "above span linearity" challenge met before returning the Hg CEMS to service, or data above span from the Hg CEMS must be subject to the quality assurance procedures established in paragraph (k)(2)(iii) of this section. In this manner all hourly average values exceeding the span value measured by the Hg CEMS during the week following the above span linearity challenge when the CEMS response exceeds +/-20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas must be normalized using Equation 22.

(iii) Quality assure any data above the span value established in paragraph (k)(1) of this section using the following procedure. Any time two consecutive 1-hour average measured concentrations of Hg exceeds the span value you must, within 24 hours before or after, introduce a higher, "above span" Hg reference gas standard to the Hg CEMS. The "above span" reference gas must meet the requirements of PS 12A, Section 7.1, must target a concentration level between 50 and 150 percent of the highest expected hourly concentration measured during the period of measurements above span, and must be introduced at the probe. While this target represents a desired concentration range that is not always achievable in practice, it is expected that the intent to meet this range is demonstrated by the value of the reference gas. Expected values may include "above span" calibrations done before or after the above span measurement period. Record and report the results of this procedure as you would for a daily calibration. The "above span" calibration is successful if the value measured by the Hg CEMS is within 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas. If the value measured by the Hg CEMS exceeds 20 percent of the certified value of the reference gas, then you must normalize the one-hour average stack gas values measured above the span during the 24-hour period preceding or following the "above span" calibration for reporting based on the Hg CEMS response to the reference gas as shown in Equation 22. Only one "above span" calibration is needed per 24-hour period.

(3) You must operate and maintain each Hg CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system according to the quality assurance requirements in Procedure 5 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter. During the RATA of integrated sorbent trap monitoring systems required under Procedure 5, you may apply the appropriate exception for sorbent trap section 2 breakthrough in (k)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) For stack Hg concentrations >1 µg/dscm, &#x2264;10% of section 1 mass;

(ii) For stack Hg concentrations &#x2264;1 µg/dscm and >0.5 µg/dscm, &#x2264;20% of section 1 mass;

(iii) For stack Hg concentrations &#x2264;0.5 µg/dscm and >0.1 µg/dscm, &#x2264;50% of section 1 mass; and

(iv) For stack Hg concentrations &#x2264;0.1 µg/dscm, no breakthrough criterion assuming all other QA/QC specifications are met.

(4) Relative accuracy testing of mercury monitoring systems under PS 12A, PS 12B, or Procedure 5 must be conducted at normal operating conditions. If a facility has an inline raw mill, the testing must occur with the raw mill on.

(5) If you use a Hg CEMS or an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system, you must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the exhaust gas flow rate to the atmosphere according to the requirements in paragraphs (n)(1) through (10) of this section. If kiln gases are diverted through an alkali bypass or to a coal mill and exhausted through separate stacks, you must account for the mercury emitted from those stacks by following the procedures in (k)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) Develop a mercury hourly mass emissions rate by conducting performance tests annually, within 11 to 13 calendar months after the previous performance test, using Method 29, or Method 30B, to measure the concentration of mercury in the gases exhausted from the alkali bypass and coal mill.

(ii) On a continuous basis, determine the mass emissions of mercury in lb/hr from the alkali bypass and coal mill exhausts by using the mercury hourly emissions rate and the exhaust gas flow rate to calculate hourly mercury emissions in lb/hr.

(iii) Sum the hourly mercury emissions from the kiln, alkali bypass and coal mill to determine total mercury emissions. Using hourly clinker production, calculate the hourly emissions rate in pounds per ton of clinker to determine your 30 day rolling average.

(iv) If mercury emissions from the coal mill and alkali bypass are below the method detection limit for two consecutive annual performance tests, you may reduce the frequency of the performance tests of coal mills and alkali bypasses to once every 30 months. If the measured mercury concentration exceeds the method detection limit, you must revert to testing annually until two consecutive annual tests are below the method detection limit.

(6) If you operate an integrated sorbent trap monitoring system conforming to PS 12B, you may use a monitoring period at least 24 hours but no longer than 168 hours in length. You should use a monitoring period that is a multiple of 24 hours (except during relative accuracy testing as allowed in PS 12B).
