
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Notification, Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### § 63.1353 Notification requirements.

(a) The notification provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A that apply and those that do not apply to owners and operators of affected sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 1 of this subpart. If any State requires a notice that contains all of the information required in a notification listed in this section, the owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the notice sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that notification.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to the requirements of this subpart shall comply with the notification requirements in § 63.9 as follows:

(1) Initial notifications as required by § 63.9(b) through (d). For the purposes of this subpart, a Title V or 40 CFR part 70 permit application may be used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b), provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required by § 63.9(b), and the State to which the permit application has been submitted has an approved operating permit program under part 70 of this chapter and has received delegation of authority from the EPA. Permit applications shall be submitted by the same due dates as those specified for the initial notification.

(2) Notification of performance tests, as required by §§ 63.7 and 63.9(e).

(3) Notification of opacity and visible emission observations required by § 63.1349 in accordance with §§ 63.6(h)(5) and 63.9(f).

(4) Notification, as required by § 63.9(g), of the date that the continuous emission monitor performance evaluation required by § 63.8(e) is scheduled to begin.

(5) Notification of compliance status, as required by § 63.9(h).

(6) Within 48 hours of an exceedance that triggers retesting to establish compliance and new operating limits, notify the appropriate permitting agency of the planned performance tests. The notification requirements of §§ 63.7(b) and 63.9(e) do not apply to retesting required for exceedances under this subpart.
