
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Notification, Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### § 63.1354 Reporting requirements.

(a) The reporting provisions of subpart A of this part that apply and those that do not apply to owners or operators of affected sources subject to this subpart are listed in Table 1 of this subpart. If any State requires a report that contains all of the information required in a report listed in this section, the owner or operator may send the Administrator a copy of the report sent to the State to satisfy the requirements of this section for that report.

(b) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.10 of the general provisions of this part 63, subpart A as follows:

(1) As required by § 63.10(d)(2), the owner or operator shall report the results of performance tests as part of the notification of compliance status.

(2) As required by § 63.10(d)(3), the owner or operator of an affected source shall report the opacity results from tests required by § 63.1349.

(3) As required by § 63.10(d)(4), the owner or operator of an affected source who is required to submit progress reports as a condition of receiving an extension of compliance under § 63.6(i) shall submit such reports by the dates specified in the written extension of compliance.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) As required by § 63.10(e)(2), the owner or operator shall submit a written report of the results of the performance evaluation for the continuous monitoring system required by § 63.8(e). The owner or operator shall submit the report simultaneously with the results of the performance test.

(7) As required by § 63.10(e)(2), the owner or operator of an affected source using a continuous opacity monitoring system to determine opacity compliance during any performance test required under § 63.7 and described in § 63.6(d)(6) shall report the results of the continuous opacity monitoring system performance evaluation conducted under § 63.8(e).

(8) As required by § 63.10(e)(3), the owner or operator of an affected source equipped with a continuous emission monitor shall submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report for any event when the continuous monitoring system data indicate the source is not in compliance with the applicable emission limitation or operating parameter limit.
