
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants From the Portland Cement Manufacturing Industry
###### Notification, Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### § 63.1355 Recordkeeping requirements.

(a) The owner or operator shall maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) required by this section recorded in a form suitable and readily available for inspection and review as required by § 63.10(b)(1). The files shall be retained for at least five years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. At a minimum, the most recent two years of data shall be retained on site. The remaining three years of data may be retained off site. The files may be maintained on microfilm, on a computer, on floppy disks, on magnetic tape, or on microfiche.

(b) The owner or operator shall maintain records for each affected source as required by § 63.10(b)(2) and (b)(3) of this part; and

(1) All documentation supporting initial notifications and notifications of compliance status under § 63.9;

(2) All records of applicability determination, including supporting analyses; and

(3) If the owner or operator has been granted a waiver under § 63.8(f)(6), any information demonstrating whether a source is meeting the requirements for a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

(c) In addition to the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source equipped with a continuous monitoring system shall maintain all records required by § 63.10(c).

(d) [Reserved]

(e) You must keep records of the daily clinker production rates according to the clinker production monitoring requirements in § 63.1350(d).

(f) You must keep records of the date, time and duration of each startup or shutdown period for any affected source that is subject to a standard during startup or shutdown that differs from the standard applicable at other times, and the quantity of feed and fuel used during the startup or shutdown period.

(g)(1) You must keep records of the date, time and duration of each malfunction that causes an affected source to fail to meet an applicable standard; if there was also a monitoring malfunction, the date, time and duration of the monitoring malfunction; the record must list the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard for which the source failed to meet a standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(2) You must keep records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1348(d) including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(h) For each exceedance from an emissions standard or established operating parameter limit, you must keep records of the date, duration and description of each exceedance and the specific actions taken for each exceedance including inspections, corrective actions and repeat performance tests and the results of those actions.
