
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1360 Applicability.
####### Storage vessel applicability determination.

(f)An owner or operator shall follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section to determine whether a storage vessel is part of the affected source to which this subpart applies.

(1) If a storage vessel is already subject to another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 on June 23, 1999, the storage vessel shall belong to the process unit subject to the other subpart.

(2) Unless otherwise excluded under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the storage vessel is part of a PAI process unit if either the input to the vessel from the PAI process unit is greater than or equal to the input from any other PAI or non-PAI process unit, or the output from the vessel to the PAI process unit is greater than or equal to the output to any other PAI or non-PAI process unit. If the greatest input to and/or output from a shared storage vessel is the same for two or more process units, including one or more PAI process units, the owner or operator must assign the storage vessel to any one of the PAI process units that meet this condition.

(3) Unless otherwise excluded under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, where a storage vessel is located in a tank farm (including a marine tank farm), the applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The storage vessel in the tank farm is not subject to the provisions of this subpart if the greatest input to or output from the storage vessel is for a non-PAI process unit. The input and output shall be determined among only those process units that share the storage vessel and that do not have an intervening storage vessel for that product (or raw material, as appropriate).

(ii) Except for storage vessels in a tank farm excluded in accordance with paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, applicability of this subpart shall be determined according to the provisions in paragraphs (f)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, this subpart does not apply to the storage vessel in a tank farm if each PAI process unit that receives material from or sends material to the storage vessel has an intervening storage vessel for that material.

(B) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, a storage vessel in a tank farm shall be assigned to the PAI process unit that receives the greatest amount of material from or sends the greatest amount of material to the storage vessel and does not have an intervening storage vessel. If two or more PAI process units have the same input to or output from the storage vessel in the tank farm, then the storage vessel in the tank farm may be assigned to any one of the PAI process units that meet this condition.

(C) As an alternative to the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, even if an intervening storage vessel is present, an owner or operator may elect to assign a storage vessel in a tank farm to the PAI process unit that sends the most material to or receives the most material from the storage vessel. If two or more PAI process units have the same input to or output from the storage vessel in the tank farm, then the storage vessel in the tank farm may be assigned to any one of the PAI process units that meet this condition.

(iii) With respect to a process unit, an intervening storage vessel means a storage vessel connected by hard-piping to the process unit and to the storage vessel in the tank farm so that the product or raw material entering or leaving the process flows into (or from) the intervening storage vessel and does not flow directly into (or from) the storage vessel in the tank farm.

(4) If use varies from year to year, then use for the purposes of this subpart for existing sources shall be based on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding June 23, 1999, or if the storage vessel was not in operation during that year, the use shall be based on the expected use in the 5 years after startup. This determination shall be reported as part of an operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority.

(5) If the storage vessel begins receiving material from (or sending material to) another process unit, or ceasing to receive material from (or send material to) a PAI process unit, or if there is a significant change in the use of the storage vessel, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the ownership determination for the storage vessel.
