
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1360 Applicability.
####### Applicability of process units included in a process unit group.

(h)An owner or operator may elect to develop process unit groups in accordance with paragraph (h)(1) of this section. For the PAI process units in these process unit groups, the owner or operator may comply with the provisions in overlapping MACT standards, as specified in paragraphs (h)(2) through (4) of this section, as an alternative means of demonstrating compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(1) Develop, revise, and document changes in a process unit group in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Initially identify a non-dedicated PAI process unit that is operating on December 23, 2003 or a date after December 23, 2003, and identify all processing equipment that is part of this PAI process unit, based on descriptions in operating scenarios.

(ii) Add to the group any other non-dedicated PAI and non-dedicated non-PAI process units expected to be operated in the 5 years after the date specified in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, provided they satisfy the criteria specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Also identify all of the processing equipment used for each process unit based on information from operating scenarios and other applicable documentation.

(A) Each PAI process unit that is added to a group must have some processing equipment that is part of one or more PAI process units that are already in the process unit group.

(B) Each non-PAI process unit that is added to a group must have some processing equipment that is also part of one or more of the PAI process units in the group.

(C) No process unit may be part of more than one process unit group.

(iii) The initial process unit group consists of all of the processing equipment for the process units identified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(iv) If compliance is to be demonstrated in accordance with paragraph (h)(3) of this section, determine the primary product of the process unit group according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The primary product is the type of product (e.g., PAI, pharmaceutical product, thermoplastic resin, etc.) that is expected to be produced for the greatest operating time in the 5-year period specified in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) If the process unit group produces multiple products equally based on operating time, then the primary product is the product with the greatest production on a mass basis over the 5-year period specified in paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section.

(C) The primary product of the group must be redetermined if the owner or operator does not intend to make that product in the future or if it has not been made for 5 years. The results of the redetermination must be recorded as specified in § 63.1367(b) and reported in a Periodic report no later than the report covering the period for the end of the 5th year as specified in § 63.1368(g)(2). If the primary product changes, the owner or operator must either demonstrate compliance with the applicable subpart as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section or demonstrate compliance with the provisions of this subpart MMM.

(v) Add process units developed in the future in accordance with the conditions specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(vi) Maintain records of changes in the process units in each process unit group as specified in § 63.1367(b)(9), and maintain reports as specified in § 63.1368(f)(9) and (g)(2)(ix).

(2) If any of the products produced in the process unit group are subject to 40 CFR part 63, subpart GGG (Pharmaceuticals MACT), the owner or operator may elect to comply with the requirements of subpart GGG for the PAI process unit(s) within the process unit group, except for the following:

(i) The emission limit standard for process vents in § 63.1362(b)(2)(i) shall apply in place of § 63.1254(a)(2);

(ii) When the dates of April 2, 1997 and April 2, 2007 are provided in § 63.1254(a)(3)(ii), the dates of November 10, 1997 and November 10, 2007, respectively, shall apply for purposes of this subpart MMM; and

(iii) Requirements in § 63.1367(a)(5) regarding application for approval of construction or reconstruction shall apply in place of the provisions in § 63.1259(a)(5).

(3) If the primary product of a process unit group is determined to be a type of material that is subject to another subpart of 40 CFR part 63 on June 23, 1999 or startup of the first process unit after formation of the process unit group, whichever is later, the owner or operator may elect to comply with the other subpart for any PAI process unit within the process unit group, subject to the requirement in this paragraph (h)(3). Emissions from PAI Group 1 process vents, as defined in § 63.1361, must be reduced in accordance with the control requirements for Group 1 vents as specified in the alternative subpart. The criteria in the alternative subpart for determining which process vents must be controlled do not apply for the purposes of this paragraph (h)(3).

(4) The requirements for new and reconstructed sources in the alternative subpart apply to all PAI process units in the process unit group if, and only if, the affected source under the alternative subpart meets the requirements for construction or reconstruction.
