
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1360 Applicability.
####### Meaning of periods of time.

(j)All terms in this subpart MMM that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual), unless specified otherwise in the section or subsection that imposes the requirement, refer to the standard calendar periods.

(1) Notwithstanding time periods specified in the subpart MMM for completion of required tasks, such time periods may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner and operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part (e.g., a period could begin on the compliance date or another date, rather than on the first day of the standard period). For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.

(2) Where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date occurs after the beginning of the period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraph (j)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the compliance deadline occurs, if there remain at least 3 days for tasks that must be performed weekly, at least 2 weeks for tasks that must be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that must be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that must be performed annually; or

(ii) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period within which the initial compliance deadline occurs.

(3) In all instances where a provision of this subpart MMM requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during the specified period, provided the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task in the previous period.
