
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1361 Definitions.
####### Pesticide active ingredient manufacturing process unit (PAI process unit)

means a process unit that is used to produce a material that is primarily used as a PAI or integral intermediate. A PAI process unit consists of: the process, as defined in this subpart; associated storage vessels, as determined by the procedures in ยง 63.1360(f); equipment identified in ยง 63.1362(k); connected piping and ducts; and components such as pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, and instrumentation systems. A material is primarily used as a PAI or integral intermediate if more than 50 percent of the projected annual production from a process unit in the 3 years after June 23, 1999 or startup, whichever is later, is used as a PAI or integral intermediate; recordkeeping is required if the material is used as a PAI or integral intermediate, but not as the primary use. If the primary use changes to a PAI or integral intermediate, the process unit becomes a PAI process unit unless it is already subject to the HON. If the primary use changes from a PAI or integral intermediate to another use, the process unit remains a PAI process unit. Any process tank containing an integral intermediate is part of the PAI process unit used to produce the integral intermediate. A process unit that produces an intermediate that is not an integral intermediate may be designated as a PAI process unit according to the procedures of ยง 63.1360(g). Formulation of pesticide products is not considered part of a PAI process unit. Quality assurance and quality control laboratories are not considered part of a PAI process unit.
