
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1362 Standards.
####### Organic HAP emissions from existing sources.

(2)The owner or operator of an existing affected source must comply with the requirements in either paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section or with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The uncontrolled organic HAP emission rate shall not exceed 0.15 Mg/yr from the sum of all process vents within a process.

(ii) (A) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from a process vent shall be reduced by 98 percent by weight or greater if the flow-weighted average flowrate for the vent as calculated using Equation 1 of this subpart is less than or equal to the flowrate calculated using Equation 2 of this subpart.

(B) If the owner or operator can demonstrate that a control device, installed on or before November 10, 1997 on a process vent otherwise subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, reduces inlet emissions of total organic HAP by greater than or equal to 90 percent by weight but less than 98 percent by weight, then the control device must be operated to reduce inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 90 percent by weight or greater.

(iii) Excluding process vents that are subject to the requirements in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within a process shall be reduced by 90 percent or greater by weight.

(iv) As an alternative to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from any process vent may be reduced in accordance with any of the provisions in paragraphs (b)(2)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section. All remaining process vents within a process must be controlled in accordance with paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(A) To outlet concentrations less than or equal to 20 ppmv; or

(B) By a flare that meets the requirements of ยง 63.11(b); or

(C) By a control device specified in ยง 63.1365(a)(4); or

(D) In accordance with the alternative standard specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.
