
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1362 Standards.
####### Pollution prevention alternative.

(g)Except as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, for a process that has an initial startup before November 10, 1997, an owner or operator may choose to meet the pollution prevention alternative requirement specified in either paragraph (g)(2) or (3) of this section for any PAI process unit, in lieu of the requirements specified in paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section and in § 63.1363. Compliance with the requirements of paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section shall be demonstrated through the procedures in §§ 63.1365(g) and 63.1366(f).

(1) A HAP must be controlled according to the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section and § 63.1363 if it is generated in the PAI process unit or an associated control device and it is not part of the production-indexed HAP consumption factor (HAP factor).

(2) The HAP factor shall be reduced by at least 85 percent from a 3-year average baseline beginning no earlier than the 1987 through 1989 calendar years. Alternatively, for a process that has been operating for less than 3 years but more than 1 year, the baseline factor may be calculated for the time period from startup of the process until the present. For any reduction in the HAP factor achieved by reducing a HAP that is also a VOC, an equivalent reduction in the production-indexed VOC consumption factor (VOC factor) is also required (the equivalence is determined on a mass basis, not a percentage basis). For any reduction in the HAP factor that is achieved by reducing a HAP that is not a VOC, the VOC factor may not be increased.

(3) As an alternative to the provisions in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the owner or operator may combine pollution prevention with emissions control as specified in paragraphs (g)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The HAP factor shall be reduced as specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section except that a reduction of at least 50 percent shall apply for the purposes of this paragraph.

(ii) The total annual HAP emissions from the PAI process unit shall be reduced by an amount that, when divided by the annual production rate and added to the reduction of the HAP factor yields a value of at least 85 percent of the baseline HAP factor. The total annual VOC emissions from the process unit must be reduced by an amount equivalent to the reduction in HAP emissions for each HAP that is a VOC (the equivalence is determined on a mass basis). For HAP emissions reductions that are achieved by reducing a HAP that is not a VOC, the total annual VOC emissions may not be increased. The reduction in HAP air emissions must be achieved using one of the following control devices:

(A) Combustion control devices such as incinerators, flares, or process heaters.

(B) Control devices such as condensers and carbon adsorbers whose recovered product is destroyed or shipped offsite for destruction.

(C) Any control device that does not ultimately allow for recycling of material back to the PAI process unit.

(D) Any control device for which the owner or operator can demonstrate that the use of the device in controlling HAP emissions will have no effect on the HAP factor for the PAI process unit.
