
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1362 Standards.
####### Wastewater.

(d)The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.147, with the differences noted in paragraphs (d)(1) through (16) of this section for the purposes of this subpart.

(1) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137 of subpart G of this part, the provisions in § 63.6(g) of subpart A of this part shall apply.

(2) When the storage tank requirements contained in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.147, §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are applicable, with the exception of the differences noted in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) When the term "storage vessel" is used in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 of subpart G of this part, the definition of the term "storage vessel" in § 63.1361 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) When December 31, 1992, is referred to in § 63.119 of subpart G of this part, November 10, 1997 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(iii) When April 22, 1994 is referred to in § 63.119 of subpart G of this part, June 23, 1999 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(iv) When the phrase "the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part" is referred to in § 63.120 of subpart G of this part, the phrase "the compliance date specified in § 63.1364" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) To request approval to monitor alternative parameters, as referred to in § 63.146(a) of subpart G of this part, the owner or operator shall comply with the procedures in § 63.8(f) of subpart A of this part, as referred to in § 63.1366(b)(4), instead of the procedures in § 63.151(f) or (g) of subpart G of this part.

(4) When the Notification of Compliance Status report requirements contained in § 63.152(b) of subpart G of this part are referred to in § 63.146 of subpart G of this part, the Notification of Compliance Status report requirements in § 63.1368(f) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When the recordkeeping requirements contained in § 63.152(f) of subpart G of this part are referred to in § 63.147(d) of subpart G of this part, the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.1367 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When the Periodic report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) of subpart G of this part are referred to in §§ 63.146 and 63.147 of subpart G of this part, the Periodic report requirements contained in § 63.1368(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) When the term "process wastewater" is referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.147 of subpart G of this part, the term "wastewater" as defined in § 63.1361 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(8) When the term "Group 1 wastewater stream" is used in §§ 63.132 through 63.147 of subpart G of this part, the definition of the term "Group 1 wastewater stream" in § 63.1361 shall apply for both new sources and existing sources for the purposes of this subpart.

(9) The requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.147 for compounds listed on Table 8 of subpart G of this part shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(10) When the total load of Table 9 compounds in the sum of all process wastewater from PAI process units at a new affected source is 2,100 Mg/yr (2,300 tons/yr) or more, the owner or operator shall reduce, by removal or destruction, the mass flow rate of all compounds in Table 9 of subpart G of this part in all wastewater (process and maintenance wastewater) by 99 percent or more. Alternatively, the owner or operator may treat the wastewater in a unit identified in and complying with § 63.138(h) of subpart G of this part. The removal/destruction efficiency shall be determined by the procedures specified in § 63.145(c) of subpart G of this part, for noncombustion processes, or § 63.145(d) of subpart G of this part, for combustion processes.

(11) The compliance date for the affected source subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1364.

(12) As an alternative to using Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, as specified in §§ 63.139(c)(1)(ii) and 63.145(i)(2), the owner or operator may elect to use Method 25 or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, as specified in § 63.1365(b).

(13) The requirement to correct outlet concentrations from combustion devices to 3 percent oxygen in § 63.139(c)(1)(ii) shall apply only if supplemental gases are combined with affected vent streams, and the procedures in § 63.1365(a)(7)(i) apply instead of the procedures in § 63.145(i)(6) to determine the percent oxygen correction. If emissions are controlled with a vapor recovery system as specified in § 63.139(c)(2), the owner or operator must correct for supplemental gases as specified in § 63.1365(a)(7)(ii).

(14) As an alternative to the management and treatment options specified in § 63.132(g)(2), any Group 1 wastewater stream (or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream) that contains less than 50 ppmw of HAP listed in Table 2 to subpart GGG of this part may be transferred offsite or to an on-site treatment operation not owned or operated by the owner or operator of the source generating the wastewater (or residual) if the transferee manages and treats the wastewater stream or residual in accordance with paragraphs (d)(14)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Treat the wastewater stream or residual in a biological treatment unit in accordance with §§ 63.138 and 63.145.

(ii) Cover the waste management units up to the activated sludge unit. Alternatively, covers are not required if the owner or operator demonstrates that less than 5 percent of the total HAP listed in Table 3 to subpart GGG of this part is emitted.

(iii) Inspect covers as specified in § 63.1366(h).

(iv) The reference in § 63.132(g)(2) to "§ 63.102(b) of subpart F" does not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(15) When § 63.133 refers to Table 10 to subpart G of this part, the maximum true vapor pressures in the table shall be limited to the HAP listed in Table 9 to subpart G of this part.

(16) When the inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements contained in § 63.148 are referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.147, the inspection requirements in § 63.1366(h), the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.1367(f), and the reporting requirements in § 63.1368(g)(2)(iii) and (xi) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
