
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1362 Standards.
####### Emissions averaging provisions.

(h)Except as provided in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section, the owner or operator of an existing affected facility may choose to comply with the emission standards in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section by using emissions averaging procedures specified in § 63.1365(h) for organic HAP emissions from any storage vessel, process, or waste management unit that is part of an affected source subject to this subpart.

(1) A State may restrict the owner or operator of an existing source to use only the procedures in paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) of this section to comply with the emission standards where State authorities prohibit averaging of HAP emissions.

(2) Group 1 emission points that are controlled as specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section may not be used to calculate emissions averaging credits, unless the equipment is approved for use in a different manner from that specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, and a nominal efficiency has been assigned according to the procedures in § 63.150(i). The nominal efficiency must exceed the percent reduction required by paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section for process vents and storage vessels, respectively, exceed the percent reduction required in § 63.139(c) for control devices used to control emissions vented from waste management units, and exceed the percent reduction required in § 63.138(e) or (f) for wastewater treatment processes.

(i) Storage vessels controlled with an internal floating roof meeting the specifications of § 63.119(b), an external floating roof meeting the specifications of § 63.119(c), or an external floating roof converted to an internal floating meeting the specifications of § 63.119(d).

(ii) Emission points controlled with a flare.

(iii) Wastewater streams that are managed in waste management units that are controlled as specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137, treated using a steam stripper meeting the specifications of § 63.138(d), and emissions from the steam stripper are controlled in a control device that meets the percent reduction requirements specified in § 63.139(c).

(3) Process vents and storage vessels controlled with a control device to an outlet concentration of 20 ppmv or 50 ppmv, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A), (b)(3)(ii), (b)(6), (c)(2)(iv)(B), or (c)(4) of this section, and wastewater streams controlled in a treatment unit to an outlet concentration of 50 ppmw, may not be used in any averaging group.

(4) Maintenance wastewater streams, wastewater streams treated in biological treatment units, and Group 2 wastewater streams that are not managed as specified in §§ 63.133 through 63.137 may not be included in any averaging group.

(5) Processes which have been permanently shut down and storage vessels permanently taken out of HAP service may not be included in any averaging group.

(6) Emission points already controlled on or before November 15, 1990 may not be used to generate emissions averaging credits, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990. In these cases, credit will be allowed only for the increase in control after November 15, 1990.

(7) Emission points controlled to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart may not be included in an emissions averaging group, unless the level of control has been increased after November 15, 1990, above what is required by the other State or Federal rule. Only the control above what is required by the other State or Federal rule will be credited. However, if an emission point has been used to generate emissions averaging credit in an approved emissions average, and the point is subsequently made subject to a State or Federal rule other than this subpart, the point can continue to generate emissions averaging credit for the purpose of complying with the previously approved average.
