
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Consistency with other regulations.

(2)After the compliance date for a process, equipment subject to both this section and either of the following will be required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart:

(i) 40 CFR part 60.

(ii) 40 CFR part 61.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) The provisions in § 63.1(a)(3) of subpart A of this part do not alter the provisions in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(5) Lines and equipment not containing process fluids are not subject to the provisions of this section. Utilities, and other nonprocess lines, such as heating and cooling systems which do not combine their materials with those in the processes they serve, are not considered to be part of a process.

(6) The provisions of this section do not apply to bench-scale processes, regardless of whether the processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart MMM.

(7) Each piece of equipment to which this section applies shall be identified such that it can be distinguished readily from equipment that is not subject to this section. Identification of the equipment does not require physical tagging of the equipment. For example, the equipment may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by designation of process boundaries by some form of weatherproof identification. If changes are made to the affected source subject to the leak detection requirements, equipment identification for each type of component shall be updated, if needed, within 15 calendar days of the end of each monitoring period for that component.

(8) Equipment that is in vacuum service is excluded from the requirements of this section.

(9) Equipment that is in organic HAP service, but is in such service less than 300 hours per calendar year, is excluded from the requirements of this section if it is identified as required in paragraph (g)(9) of this section.

(10) When each leak is detected by visual, audible, or olfactory means, or by monitoring as described in § 63.180(b) or (c) of subpart H of this part, the following requirements apply:

(i) A weatherproof and readily visible identification, marked with the equipment identification number, shall be attached to the leaking equipment.

(ii) The identification on a valve in light liquid or gas/vapor service may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, and no leak has been detected during the follow-up monitoring. If an owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.174(c)(1)(i), the identification on a connector may be removed after it has been monitored as specified in § 63.174(c)(1)(i) and no leak is detected during that monitoring.

(iii) The identification on equipment, except as specified in paragraph (a)(10)(ii) of this section, may be removed after it has been repaired.
