
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Standards: open-ended valves or lines.

(d)(1)(i) Each open-ended valve or line shall be equipped with a cap, blind flange, plug, or a second valve, except as provided in ยง 63.177 of subpart H of this part and paragraphs (d)(4) through (6) of this section.

(ii) The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall seal the open end at all times except during operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or during maintenance or repair. The cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve shall be in place within 1 hour of cessation of operations requiring process fluid flow through the open-ended valve or line, or within 1 hour of cessation of maintenance or repair.

(2) Each open-ended valve or line equipped with a second valve shall be operated in a manner such that the valve on the process fluid end is closed before the second valve is closed.

(3) When a double block and bleed system is being used, the bleed valve or line may remain open during operations that require venting the line between the block valves but shall comply with paragraph (d)(1) of this section at all other times.

(4) Open-ended valves or lines in an emergency shutdown system which are designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(5) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which would autocatalytically polymerize are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(6) Open-ended valves or lines containing materials which could cause an explosion, serious overpressure, or other safety hazard if capped or equipped with a double block and bleed system as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.
