
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Semiannual reports.

(vi)In addition to the information required by paragraph (h)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit in the Periodic reports the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Valve reassignments occurring during the reporting period, and

(B) Results of the semiannual overall performance calculation required by paragraph (e)(5)(iii) of this section.

(vii) To determine the monitoring frequency for each subgroup, the calculation procedures of paragraph (e)(6)(iii) of this section shall be used.

(viii) Except for the overall performance calculations required by paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (iii) of this section, each subgroup shall be treated as if it were a process for the purposes of applying the provisions of this section.

(6)(i) The owner or operator shall decide no later than the implementation date of this subpart or upon revision of an operating permit how to group the processes. Once the owner or operator has decided, all subsequent percentage calculations shall be made on the same basis.

(ii) Percent leaking valves for each group of processes or subgroup shall be determined using Equation 5 of this subpart:

(iii) When determining monitoring frequency for each group of processes or subgroup subject to monthly, quarterly, or semiannual monitoring frequencies, the percent leaking valves shall be the arithmetic average of the percent leaking valves from the last two monitoring periods. When determining monitoring frequency for each group of processes or subgroup subject to annual or biennial (once every 2 years) monitoring frequencies, the percent leaking valves shall be the arithmetic average of the percent leaking valves from the last three monitoring periods.

(iv)(A) Nonrepairable valves shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves the first time the valve is identified as leaking and nonrepairable and as required to comply with paragraph (e)(6)(iv)(B) of this section. Otherwise, a number of nonrepairable valves (identified and included in the percent leaking calculation in a previous period) up to a maximum of 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process may be excluded from calculation of percent leaking valves for subsequent monitoring periods.

(B) If the number of nonrepairable valves exceeds 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service at a process, the number of nonrepairable valves exceeding 1 percent of the total number of valves in organic HAP service shall be included in the calculation of percent leaking valves.
