
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### General recordkeeping.

(2)Except as provided in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, the following information pertaining to all equipment subject to the requirements in this section shall be recorded:

(i)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment (except instrumentation systems) subject to the requirements of this section. Connectors, except those subject to paragraph (f) of this section, need not be individually identified if all connectors in a designated area or length of pipe subject to the provisions of this section are identified as a group, and the number of subject connectors is indicated. The list for each type of equipment shall be completed no later than the completion of the initial survey required for that component. The list of identification numbers shall be updated, if needed, to incorporate equipment changes within 15 calendar days of the completion of each monitoring survey for the type of equipment component monitored.

(B) A schedule for monitoring connectors subject to the provisions of § 63.174(a) of subpart H of this part and valves subject to the provisions of paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(C) Physical tagging of the equipment is not required to indicate that it is in organic HAP service. Equipment subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.

(ii)(A) A list of identification numbers for equipment that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(4)(iv) or (c)(7) of this section or § 63.164(h).

(B) A list of identification numbers for compressors that the owner or operator elects to designate as operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million above background, under the provisions of § 63.164(i) of subpart H of this part.

(iii)(A) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.

(B) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(B) of this section.

(iv) Identification of instrumentation systems subject to the provisions of this section. Individual components in an instrumentation system need not be identified.

(v) The following information shall be recorded for each dual mechanical seal system:

(A) Design criteria required by paragraph (c)(5)(vi)(A) of this section and § 63.164(e)(2) of subpart H of this part, and an explanation of the design criteria; and

(B) Any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.

(vi) A list of equipment designated as unsafe-to-monitor or difficult-to-monitor under paragraph (f) of this section and a copy of the plan for monitoring this equipment.

(vii) A list of connectors removed from and added to the process, as described in § 63.174(i)(1) of subpart H of this part, and documentation of the integrity of the weld for any removed connectors, as required in § 63.174(j) of subpart H of this part. This is not required unless the net credits for removed connectors is expected to be used.

(viii) For batch processes that the owner or operator elects to monitor as provided under § 63.178(c) of subpart H of this part, a list of equipment added to batch product processes since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii) of subpart H of this part. This list must be completed for each type of equipment within 15 calendar days of the completion of the each monitoring survey for the type of equipment monitored.
