
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Records for closed-vent systems.

(7)The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section for closed-vent systems and control devices subject to the provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section. The records specified in paragraph (g)(7)(i) of this section shall be retained for the life of the equipment. The records specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(ii) and (iii) of this section shall be retained for 5 years.

(i) The design specifications and performance demonstrations specified in paragraphs (g)(7)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Detailed schematics, design specifications of the control device, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.

(B) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.

(C) The flare design (i.e., steam assisted, air assisted, or nonassisted) and the results of the compliance demonstration required by § 63.11(b) of subpart A of this part.

(D) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored, as required in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section, to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.

(ii) Records of operation of closed-vent systems and control devices.

(A) Dates and durations when the closed-vent systems and control devices required in paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 63.164 through 63.166 of subpart H of this part are not operated as designed as indicated by the monitored parameters, including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame.

(B) Dates and durations during which the monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.

(C) Dates and durations of startups and shutdowns of control devices required in paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 63.164 through 63.166 of subpart H of this part.

(iii) Records of inspections of closed-vent systems subject to the provisions of § 63.172 of subpart H of this part.

(A) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (2) of subpart H of this part during which no leaks were detected, a record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(B) For each inspection conducted in accordance with the provisions of § 63.172(f)(1) or (f)(2) of subpart H of this part during which leaks were detected, the information specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section shall be recorded.
