
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Records of pressure tests.

(5)The owner or operator who elects to pressure test a process equipment train and supply lines between storage and processing areas to demonstrate compliance with this section is exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (g)(2), (3), (4), and (6) of this section. Instead, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the following information:

(i) The identification of each product, or product code, produced during the calendar year. It is not necessary to identify individual items of equipment in the process equipment train.

(ii) Records demonstrating the proportion of the time during the calendar year the equipment is in use in the process that is subject to the provisions of this subpart. Examples of suitable documentation are records of time in use for individual pieces of equipment or average time in use for the process unit. These records are not required if the owner or operator does not adjust monitoring frequency by the time in use, as provided in ยง 63.178(c)(3)(iii) of subpart H of this part.

(iii) Physical tagging of the equipment to identify that it is in organic HAP service and subject to the provisions of this section is not required. Equipment in a process subject to the provisions of this section may be identified on a plant site plan, in log entries, or by other appropriate methods.

(iv) The dates of each pressure test required in ยง 63.178(b) of subpart H of this part, the test pressure, and the pressure drop observed during the test.

(v) Records of any visible, audible, or olfactory evidence of fluid loss.

(vi) When a process equipment train does not pass two consecutive pressure tests, the following information shall be recorded in a log and kept for 2 years:

(A) The date of each pressure test and the date of each leak repair attempt.

(B) Repair methods applied in each attempt to repair the leak.

(C) The reason for the delay of repair.

(D) The expected date for delivery of the replacement equipment and the actual date of delivery of the replacement equipment.

(E) The date of successful repair.
