
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Monitoring records.

(4)When each leak is detected as specified in paragraphs (c) and (e) of this section and §§ 63.164, 63.169, 63.172, and 63.174 of subpart H of this part, the owner or operator shall record the information specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section. All records shall be retained for 5 years, in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(b)(1) of subpart A of this part.

(i) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials, or identification number.

(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of first attempt to repair the leak.

(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(iv) If postrepair monitoring is required, maximum instrument reading measured by Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, after it is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.

(v) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak.

(A) The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. The written procedures must be maintained at the plant site. Reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.

(B) If delay of repair was caused by depletion of stocked parts, there must be documentation that the spare parts were sufficiently stocked onsite before depletion and the reason for depletion.

(vi) If repairs were delayed, dates of process shutdowns that occur while the equipment is unrepaired.

(vii)(A) If the alternative in § 63.174(c)(1)(ii) of subpart H of this part is not in use for the monitoring period, identification, either by list, location (area or grouping), or tagging of connectors disturbed since the last monitoring period required in § 63.174(b) of subpart H of this part, as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of subpart H of this part.

(B) The date and results of follow-up monitoring as required in § 63.174(c) of subpart H of this part. If identification of disturbed connectors is made by location, then all connectors within the designated location shall be monitored.

(viii) The date and results of the monitoring required in § 63.178(c)(3)(i) of subpart H of this part for equipment added to a batch process since the last monitoring period required in § 63.178(c)(3)(ii) and (iii) of subpart H of this part. If no leaking equipment is found in this monitoring, the owner or operator shall record that the inspection was performed. Records of the actual monitoring results are not required.

(ix) Copies of the periodic reports as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, if records are not maintained on a computerized data base capable of generating summary reports from the records.
