
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Periodic reports.

(3)The owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit Periodic reports.

(i) A report containing the information in paragraphs (h)(3)(ii) through (v) of this section shall be submitted semiannually. The first Periodic report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is due. Each subsequent Periodic report shall cover the 6-month period following the preceding period.

(ii) For equipment complying with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section, the Periodic report shall contain the summary information listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(ii)(A) through (L) of this section for each monitoring period during the 6-month period.

(A) The number of valves for which leaks were detected as described in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the percent leakers, and the total number of valves monitored;

(B) The number of valves for which leaks were not repaired as required in paragraph (e)(7) of this section, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;

(C) The number of pumps and agitators for which leaks were detected as described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the percent leakers, and the total number of pumps and agitators monitored;

(D) The number of pumps and agitators for which leaks were not repaired as required in paragraph (c)(3) of this section;

(E) The number of compressors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.164(f) of subpart H of this part;

(F) The number of compressors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.164(g) of subpart H of this part;

(G) The number of connectors for which leaks were detected as described in § 63.174(a) of subpart H of this part, the percent of connectors leaking, and the total number of connectors monitored;

(H) The number of connectors for which leaks were not repaired as required in § 63.174(d) of subpart H of this part, identifying the number of those that are determined nonrepairable;

(I) The facts that explain any delay of repairs and, where appropriate, why a process shutdown was technically infeasible.

(J) The results of all monitoring to show compliance with §§ 63.164(i) and 63.172(f) conducted within the semiannual reporting period.

(K) If applicable, the initiation of a monthly monitoring program under either paragraph (c)(4)(ii) or paragraph (e)(4)(i)(A) of this section.

(L) If applicable, notification of a change in connector monitoring alternatives as described in § 63.174(c)(1) of subpart H of this part.

(iii) For owners or operators electing to meet the requirements of § 63.178(b) of subpart H of this part, the Periodic report shall include the information listed in paragraphs (h)(3)(iii) (A) through (E) of this section for each process.

(A) Product process equipment train identification;

(B) The number of pressure tests conducted;

(C) The number of pressure tests where the equipment train failed either the retest or two consecutive pressure tests;

(D) The facts that explain any delay of repairs; and

(E) The results of all monitoring to determine compliance with § 63.172(f) of subpart H of this part.

(iv) Any change in the information submitted under paragraph (h)(2) of this section shall be provided in the next Periodic report.

(v) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (h)(3)(v)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to paragraph (b)(4) of this section, report confirmation that all monitoring to show compliance was conducted within the reporting period.

(B) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section, report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, more than 5 calendar days after the pressure release.

(C) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:
