
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1363 Standards for equipment leaks.
####### Notification of compliance status report.

(2)Each owner or operator of a source subject to this section shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status report described in ยง 63.1368(f). For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(4)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraph (h)(2)(iv) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring. Section 63.9(j) of subpart A of this part shall not apply to the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(i) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section for each group of processes subject to the requirements of paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(A) Identification of the group of processes.

(B) Approximate number of each equipment type (e.g., valves, pumps) in organic HAP service, excluding equipment in vacuum service.

(C) Method of compliance with the standard (for example, "monthly leak detection and repair" or "equipped with dual mechanical seals").

(ii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(iv) of this section and ยง 63.178(b) of subpart H of this part.

(A) Products or product codes subject to the provisions of this section, and

(B) Planned schedule for pressure testing when equipment is configured for production of products subject to the provisions of this section.

(iii) The notification shall provide the information listed in paragraphs (h)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section for each process subject to the requirements in ยง 63.179 of subpart H of this part.

(A) Process identification.

(B) A description of the system used to create a negative pressure in the enclosure and the control device used to comply with the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iv) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release, and a description of how the owner or operator will determine the information to be recorded under paragraphs (g)(11)(ii) and (iii) of this section (i.e., the duration of the pressure release and the methodology and calculations for determining of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release).
