
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Design evaluation.

(1)To demonstrate that a control device meets the required control efficiency, a design evaluation must address the composition and HAP concentration of the vent stream entering the control device. A design evaluation also must address other vent stream characteristics and control device operating parameters as specified in any one of paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section, depending on the type of control device that is used. If the vent stream is not the only inlet to the control device, the efficiency demonstration also must consider all other vapors, gases, and liquids, other than fuels, received by the control device.

(i) For an enclosed combustion device used to comply with the provisions of ยง 63.1362(b)(2)(iv), (b)(4)(ii), (c)(2)(iv)(B), or (c)(3) with a minimum residence time of 0.5 seconds and a minimum temperature of 760 &#xB0;C, the design evaluation must document that these conditions exist.

(ii) For a combustion control device that does not satisfy the criteria in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, the design evaluation must document control efficiency and address the following characteristics, depending on the type of control device:

(A) For a thermal vapor incinerator, the design evaluation must consider the autoignition temperature of the organic HAP, must consider the vent stream flow rate, and must establish the design minimum and average temperature in the combustion zone and the combustion zone residence time.

(B) For a catalytic vapor incinerator, the design evaluation must consider the vent stream flow rate and must establish the design minimum and average temperatures across the catalyst bed inlet and outlet.

(C) For a boiler or process heater, the design evaluation must consider the vent stream flow rate, must establish the design minimum and average flame zone temperatures and combustion zone residence time, and must describe the method and location where the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone.

(iii) For a condenser, the design evaluation must consider the vent stream flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature, and must establish the maximum temperature of the condenser exhaust vent stream and the corresponding outlet organic HAP compound concentration level or emission rate for which the required reduction is achieved.

(iv) For a carbon adsorption system that regenerates the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device such as a fixed-bed adsorber, the design evaluation must consider the vent stream flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature, and must establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, adsorption cycle time, number of carbon beds and their capacities, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon beds, design total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow over the period of each complete carbon bed regeneration cycle, design carbon bed temperature after regeneration, design carbon bed regeneration time, and design service life of carbon. For vacuum desorption, the pressure drop must be included.

(v) For a carbon adsorption system that does not regenerate the carbon bed directly onsite in the control device such as a carbon canister, the design evaluation must consider the vent stream mass or volumetric flow rate, relative humidity, and temperature, and must establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level, capacity of the carbon bed, type and working capacity of activated carbon used for the carbon bed, and design carbon replacement interval based on the total carbon working capacity of the control device and source operating schedule.

(vi) For a scrubber, the design evaluation must consider the vent stream composition, constituent concentrations, liquid-to-vapor ratio, scrubbing liquid flow rate and concentration, temperature, and the reaction kinetics of the constituents with the scrubbing liquid. The design evaluation must establish the design exhaust vent stream organic compound concentration level and must include the additional information in paragraphs (a)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section for trays and a packed column scrubber.

(A) Type and total number of theoretical and actual trays;

(B) Type and total surface area of packing for entire column, and for individual packed sections if column contains more than one packed section.

(vii) For fabric filters, the design evaluation must include the pressure drop through the device and the net gas-to-cloth ratio (i.e., cubic feet of gas per square feet of cloth).
