
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Test methods and conditions.

(b)When testing is conducted to measure emissions from an affected source, the test methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (9) of this section shall be used. Compliance and performance tests shall be performed under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested and as specified in paragraphs (b)(10) and (11) of this section. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator or an applicable subpart. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(1) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used for sample and velocity traverses.

(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(3) Method 3 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used for gas analysis.

(4) Method 4 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used for stack gas moisture.

(5) Concentration measurements shall be adjusted to negate the dilution effects of introducing nonaffected gaseous streams into the vent streams prior to control or measurement. The following methods are specified for concentration measurements of organic compounds:

(i) Method 18 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 may be used to determine HAP concentration in any control device efficiency determination.

(ii) Method 25 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 may be used to determine total gaseous nonmethane organic concentration for control efficiency determinations in combustion devices.

(iii) Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 may be used to determine the HAP or TOC concentration for control device efficiency determinations under the conditions specified in Method 25 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 for direct measurement of an effluent with a flame ionization detector, or in demonstrating compliance with the 20 ppmv TOC outlet standard. If Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 is used to determine the concentration of TOC for the 20 ppmv standard, the instrument shall be calibrated on methane or the predominant HAP. If calibrating on the predominant HAP, the use of Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall comply with paragraphs (b)(5)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume.

(B) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is acceptable if the response from the high level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(C) The span value of the analyzer must be less than 100 ppmv.

(6) The methods in either paragraph (b)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section shall be used to determine the concentration, in mg/dscm, of total HCl and chlorine. Concentration measurements shall be adjusted to negate the dilution effects of introducing nonaffected gaseous streams into the vent streams prior to control or measurement.

(i) Method 26 or 26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(ii) Any other method if the method or data have been validated according to the applicable procedures of Method 301 of appendix A of this part.

(7) Method 5 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used to determine the concentration of particulate matter in exhaust gas streams from bag dumps and product dryers.

(8) Wastewater analysis shall be conducted in accordance with § 63.144(b)(5)(i) through (iii) or as specified in paragraph (b)(8)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) As an alternative to the methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i), an owner or operator may conduct wastewater analyses using Method 1666 or 1671 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A, and comply with the sampling protocol requirements specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(ii). The validation requirements specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(iii) do not apply if an owner or operator uses Method 1666 or 1671 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A.

(ii) As an alternative to the methods specified in § 63.144(b)(5)(i), an owner or operator may use procedures specified in Method 8260 or 8270 in "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication No. SW-846, Third Edition, September 1986, as amended by Update I, November 15, 1992. An owner or operator also may use any more recent, updated version of Method 8260 or 8270 approved by EPA. For the purpose of using Method 8260 or 8270 to comply with this subpart, the owner or operator must maintain a formal quality assurance program consistent with either Section 8 of Method 8260 or Method 8270. This program must include the elements related to measuring the concentrations of volatile compounds that are specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Documentation of site-specific procedures to minimize the loss of compounds due to volatilization, biodegradation, reaction, or sorption during the sample collection, storage, and preparation steps.

(B) Documentation of specific quality assurance procedures followed during sampling, sample preparation, sample introduction, and analysis.

(C) Measurement of the average accuracy and precision of the specific procedures, including field duplicates and field spiking of the material source before or during sampling with compounds having similar chemical characteristics to the target analytes.

(9) Method 22 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used to determine visible emissions from flares.
