
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Absolute peak-case.

(i)If the most challenging conditions for the control device occur under maximum HAP load, the absolute peak-case conditions shall be characterized by the criteria presented in paragraph (b)(11)(i)(A) or (B) of this section. Otherwise, absolute peak-case conditions are defined by the conditions in paragraph (b)(11)(i)(C) of this section.

(A) The period in which the inlet to the control device will contain at least 50 percent of the maximum HAP mass load that may be vented to the control device over any 8-hour period. An emission profile as described in paragraph (b)(11)(iii)(A) of this section shall be used to identify the 8-hour period that includes the maximum projected HAP load.

(B) A 1-hour period of time in which the inlet to the control device will contain the highest hourly HAP mass loading rate that may be vented to the control device. An emission profile as described in paragraph (b)(11)(iii)(A) of this section shall be used to identify the 1-hour period of maximum HAP loading.

(C) The period of time when a condition other than the maximum HAP load is most challenging for the control device. These conditions include, but are not limited to the following:
