
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Initial compliance with process vent provisions.

(c)The owner or operator of an affected source shall demonstrate compliance with the process vent standards in § 63.1362(b) using the procedures described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Compliance with the process vent standards in § 63.1362(b) shall be demonstrated in accordance with the provisions specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) Initial compliance with the emission limit cutoffs in § 63.1362(b)(2)(i) and (b)(4)(i) is demonstrated when the uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the sum of all process vents within a process are less than or equal to 0.15 Mg/yr. Uncontrolled HAP emissions shall be determined using the procedures described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) Initial compliance with the emission limit cutoffs in § 63.1362(b)(3)(i) and (b)(5)(i) is demonstrated when the uncontrolled HCl and Clemissions from the sum of all process vents within a process are less than or equal to 6.8 Mg/yr. Initial compliance with the emission limit cutoffs in § 63.1362(b)(5)(ii) and (iii) is demonstrated when the uncontrolled HCl and Clemissions are greater than or equal to 6.8 Mg/yr or greater than or equal to 191 Mg/yr, respectively. Uncontrolled emissions shall be determined using the procedures described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
