
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### 1

(iii) Initial compliance with the organic HAP percent reduction requirements specified in § 63.1362(b)(2)(ii), (iii), and (b)(4)(ii) is demonstrated by determining controlled HAP emissions using the procedures described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, determining uncontrolled HAP emissions using the procedures described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and calculating the applicable percent reduction. As an alternative, if the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(11)(iii)(D)() of this section are met, initial compliance may be demonstrated by showing the control device reduces emissions by 98 percent by weight or greater using the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(iv) Initial compliance with the HCl and Clpercent reduction requirements specified in § 63.1362(b)(3)(ii), (b)(5)(ii), and (b)(5)(iii) is demonstrated by determining controlled emissions of HCl and Clusing the procedures described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, determining uncontrolled emissions of HCl and Clusing the procedures described in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, and calculating the applicable percent reduction.

(v) Initial compliance with the outlet concentration limits in § 63.1362(b)(2)(iv)(A), (b)(3)(ii), (b)(4)(ii)(A), (b)(5)(ii) and (iii) is demonstrated when the outlet TOC or total organic HAP concentration is 20 ppmv or less and the outlet HCl and chlorine concentration is 20 ppmv or less. The owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance by fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (a)(6) of this section. If an owner or operator elects to develop an emissions profile by process as described in paragraph (b)(11)(iii)(A) of this section, uncontrolled emissions shall be determined using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(vi) Initial compliance with the alternative standard in § 63.1362(b)(6) is demonstrated by fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(vii) Initial compliance when using a flare is demonstrated by fulfilling the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(viii) No initial compliance demonstration is required for control devices specified in § 63.1362(l).
