
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Engineering assessments.

(ii)The owner or operator shall conduct an engineering assessment to determine uncontrolled HAP emissions for each emission episode that is not due to vapor displacement, purging, heating, depressurization, vacuum systems, gas evolution, or air drying. For a given emission episode caused by any of these seven types of activities, the owner or operator also may request approval to determine uncontrolled HAP emissions based on an engineering assessment. Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, all data, assumptions, and procedures used in the engineering assessment shall be documented in the Precompliance plan in accordance with ยง 63.1367(b). An engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the information and procedures described in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit. For process vents without variable emission stream characteristics, an engineering assessment based on the results of a previous test may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status report instead of the Precompliance plan. Results from a previous test of process vents with variable emission stream characteristics will be acceptable in place of values estimated using the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section if the test data show a greater than 20 percent discrepancy between the test value and the estimated value, and the results of the engineering assessment shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status report. For other process vents with variable emission stream characteristics, engineering assessments based on the results of a previous test must be submitted in the Precompliance plan. For engineering assessments based on new tests, the owner or operator must comply with the test notification requirements in ยง 63.1368(m), and the results of the engineering assessment may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status report rather than the Precompliance plan.

(B) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(C) Maximum flow rate, HAP emission rate, concentration, or other relevant parameter specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent.

(D) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:
