
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Large control devices, except condensers.

(ii)Controlled emissions for each process vent that is controlled using a large control device, except for a condenser, shall be determined by applying the control efficiency of the large control device to the estimated uncontrolled emissions. The control efficiency shall be determined by conducting a performance test on the control device as described in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section, or by using the results of a previous performance test as described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(D) of this section. If the control device is intended to control only HCl and chlorine, the owner or operator may assume the control efficiency of organic HAP is 0 percent. If the control device is intended to control only organic HAP, the owner or operator may assume the control efficiency for HCl and chlorine is 0 percent.

(A) Performance test measurements shall be conducted at both the inlet and outlet of the control device for TOC, total organic HAP, and total HCl and chlorine, as applicable, using the test methods and procedures described in paragraph (b) of this section. Concentrations shall be calculated from the data obtained through emission testing according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(B) Performance testing shall be conducted under absolute or hypothetical peak-case conditions, as defined in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(C) The owner or operator may elect to conduct more than one performance test on the control device for the purpose of establishing more than one operating condition at which the control device achieves the required control efficiency.

(D) The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test for any control device for which a previous performance test was conducted, provided the test was conducted using the same procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (11) of this section over conditions typical of the absolute or hypothetical peak-case, as defined in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section. The results of the previous performance test shall be used to demonstrate compliance.
