
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Condensers.

(iii)The owner or operator using a condenser as a control device shall determine controlled emissions for each batch emission episode according to the engineering methodology in paragraphs (c)(3)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section. The owner or operator must establish the maximum outlet gas temperature and calculate the controlled emissions using this temperature in the applicable equation. Individual HAP partial pressures shall be calculated as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section.

(A) Emissions from vapor displacement due to transfer of material to a vessel shall be calculated using Equation 9 of this subpart with T set equal to the temperature of the receiver and the HAP partial pressures determined at the temperature of the receiver.

(B) Emissions from purging shall be calculated using Equation 10 of this subpart with T set equal to the temperature of the receiver and the HAP partial pressures determined at the temperature of the receiver.

(C) Emissions from heating shall be calculated using Equation 29 of this subpart. In Equation 29 of this subpart, Δ&#x3B7; is equal to the number of moles of noncondensable displaced from the vessel, as calculated using Equation 12 of this subpart. In Equation 29 of this subpart, the HAP average molecular weight shall be calculated using Equation 14 with the HAP partial pressures determined at the temperature of the receiver.
