
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Floating roof.

(3)If the owner or operator equips a Group 1 storage vessel with a floating roof to comply with the provisions in § 63.1362(c)(2) or (c)(3), the owner or operator shall demonstrate initial compliance by complying with the procedures described in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Comply with § 63.119(b), (c), or (d) of subpart G of this part, as applicable, with the differences specified in § 63.1362(d)(2)(i) through (iii).

(ii) Comply with the procedures described in § 63.120(a), (b), or (c), as applicable, with the differences specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) When the term "storage vessel" is used in § 63.120, the definition of the term "storage vessel" in § 63.1361 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(B) When the phrase "the compliance date specified in § 63.100 of subpart F of this part" is referred to in § 63.120, the phrase "the compliance date specified in § 63.1364" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(C) When the phrase "the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic HAP in the stored liquid falls below the values defining Group 1 storage vessels specified in Table 5 or Table 6 of this subpart" is referred to in § 63.120(b)(1)(iv), the phrase "the maximum true vapor pressure of the total organic HAP in the stored liquid falls below the values defining Group 1 storage vessels specified in § 63.1361" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
