
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1365 Test methods and initial compliance procedures.
####### Compliance with emissions averaging provisions.

(h)An owner or operator shall demonstrate compliance with the emissions averaging provisions of § 63.1362(h) by fulfilling the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall develop and submit for approval an Emissions Averaging Plan containing all the information required in § 63.1367(d). The Emissions Averaging Plan shall be submitted no later than 18 months prior to the compliance date of the standard. The Administrator shall determine within 120 calendar days whether the Emissions Averaging Plan submitted by sources using emissions averaging presents sufficient information. The Administrator shall either approve the Emissions Averaging Plan, request changes, or request that the owner or operator submit additional information. Once the Administrator receives sufficient information, the Administrator shall approve, disapprove, or request changes to the plan within 120 days. If the Emissions Averaging Plan is disapproved, the owner or operator must still be in compliance with the standard by the compliance date.

(2) For all points included in an emissions average, the owner or operator shall comply with the procedures that are specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Calculate and record monthly debits for all Group 1 emission points that are controlled to a level less stringent than the standard for those emission points. Equations in paragraph (h)(5) of this section shall be used to calculate debits.

(ii) Calculate and record monthly credits for all Group 1 and Group 2 emission points that are overcontrolled to compensate for the debits. Equations in paragraph (h)(6) of this section shall be used to calculate credits. All process vent, storage vessel, and wastewater emission points except those specified in § 63.1362(h)(1) through (6) may be included in the credit calculation.

(iii) Demonstrate that annual credits calculated according to paragraph (h)(6) of this section are greater than or equal to debits calculated according to paragraph (h)(5) of this section for the same annual compliance period. The initial demonstration in the Emissions Averaging Plan or operating permit application that credit-generating emission points will be capable of generating sufficient credits to offset the debit-generating emission points shall be made under representative operating conditions. After the compliance date, actual operating data shall be used for all debit and credit calculations.

(iv) Demonstrate that debits calculated for a quarterly (3-month) period according to paragraph (h)(5) of this section are not more than 1.30 times the credits for the same period calculated according to paragraph (h)(6) of this section. Compliance for the quarter shall be determined based on the ratio of credits and debits from that quarter, with 30 percent more debits than credits allowed on a quarterly basis.

(v) Record and report quarterly and annual credits and debits as required in §§ 63.1367(d) and 63.1368(d).

(3) [Reserved]

(4) During periods of monitoring excursions, credits and debits shall be adjusted as specified in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) No credits shall be assigned to the credit-generating emission point.

(ii) Maximum debits shall be assigned to the debit-generating emission point.

(iii) The owner or operator may demonstrate to the Administrator that full or partial credits or debits should be assigned using the procedures in § 63.150(l) of subpart G of this part.

(5) Debits are generated by the difference between the actual emissions from a Group 1 emission point that is uncontrolled or controlled to a level less stringent than the applicable standard and the emissions allowed for the Group 1 emission point. Debits shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Source-wide debits shall be calculated using Equation 40 of this subpart.

Debits and all terms of Equation 40 of this subpart are in units of Mg/month

(ii) Emissions from process vents shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(ii)(C) of this section, uncontrolled emissions for process vents shall be calculated using the procedures that are specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(B) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(5)(ii)(C) of this section, actual emissions for process vents shall be calculated using the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(2) and (c)(3) of this section, as applicable.

(C) As an alternative to the procedures described in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, for continuous processes, uncontrolled and actual emissions may be calculated by the procedures described in § 63.150(g)(2) of subpart G of this part. For purposes of complying with this paragraph, a 90 percent reduction shall apply instead of the 98 percent reduction in § 63.150(g)(2)(iii) of subpart G of this part, and the term "process condenser" shall apply instead of the term "recovery device" in § 63.150(g)(2) for the purposes of this subpart.

(iii) Uncontrolled emissions from storage vessels shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Actual emissions from storage vessels shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(g)(3)(ii), (iii), or (iv) of subpart G of this subpart, as appropriate, except that when § 63.150(g)(3)(ii)(B) refers to the procedures in § 63.120(d) for determining percent reduction for a control device, § 63.1365(d)(2) or (3) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(iv) Emissions from wastewater shall be calculated using the procedures specified in § 63.150(g)(5) of subpart G of this part.

(6) Credits are generated by the difference between emissions that are allowed for each Group 1 and Group 2 emission point and the actual emissions from that Group 1 or Group 2 emission point that have been controlled after November 15, 1990 to a level more stringent than what is required in this subpart or any other State or Federal rule or statute. Credits shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Source-wide credits shall be calculated using Equation 41 of this subpart. Credits and all terms in Equation 41 of this subpart are in units of Mg/month, the baseline date is November 15, 1990, the terms consisting of a constant multiplied by the uncontrolled emissions are the emissions from each emission point subject to the standards in § 63.1362(b) and (c) that is controlled to a level more stringent than the standard.

(ii) For an emission point controlled using a pollution prevention measure, the nominal efficiency for calculating credits shall be as determined as described in § 63.150(j) of subpart G of this part.

(iii) Emissions from process vents shall be calculated in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Uncontrolled emissions from Group 1 process vents shall be calculated according to the procedures in paragraph (h)(5)(ii)(A) or (C) of this section.

(B) Actual emissions from Group 1 process vents with a nominal efficiency greater than the applicable standard or a pollution prevention measure that achieves reductions greater than the applicable standard shall be calculated using Equation 42 of this subpart:

(C) Baseline and actual emissions from Group 2 process vents shall be calculated according to the procedures in § 63.150(h)(2)(iii) and (iv) with the following modifications:
