
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1366 Monitoring and inspection requirements.
####### Scrubbers.

(ii)For affected sources using liquid scrubbers, the owner or operator shall establish a minimum scrubber liquid flow rate or pressure drop as a site-specific operating parameter which must be measured and recorded at least once every 15 minutes during the period in which the scrubber is controlling HAP from an emission stream as required by the standards in ยง 63.1362. If the scrubber uses a caustic solution to remove acid emissions, the pH of the effluent scrubber liquid shall also be monitored once a day. The minimum scrubber liquid flow rate or pressure drop shall be based on the conditions under which the initial compliance demonstration was conducted. Alternatively, for halogen scrubbers, the owner or operator may comply with the requirements specified in ยง 63.994(c).

(A) The monitoring device used to determine the pressure drop shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within a gage pressure of +/-10 percent of the maximum pressure drop measured.

(B) The monitoring device used for measurement of scrubber liquid flowrate shall be certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-10 percent of the design scrubber liquid flowrate.

(C) The monitoring device shall be calibrated annually.
