
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1366 Monitoring and inspection requirements.
####### Continuous emission monitor.

(x)As an alternative to the parameters specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) through (ix) of this section, an owner or operator may monitor and record the outlet HAP concentration or both the outlet TOC concentration and outlet total HCl and chlorine concentration at least every 15 minutes during the period in which the control device is controlling HAP from an emission stream subject to the standards in ยง 63.1362. The owner or operator need not monitor the total HCl and chlorine concentration if the owner or operator determines that the emission stream does not contain HCl or chlorine. The owner or operator need not monitor the TOC concentration if the owner or operator determines the emission stream does not contain organic compounds. The HAP or TOC monitor must meet the requirements of Performance Specification 8 or 9 of appendix B of part 60 and must be installed, calibrated, and maintained, according to ยง 63.8 of subpart A of this part. As part of the QA/QC Plan, calibration of the device must include, at a minimum, quarterly cylinder gas audits. If supplemental gases are introduced before the control device, the monitored concentration shall be corrected as specified in ยง 63.1365(a)(7).
