
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1366 Monitoring and inspection requirements.
####### Fabric filters.

(xi)For each fabric filter used to control particulate matter emissions from bag dumps and product dryers subject to § 63.1362(e), the owner or operator shall install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a bag leak detection system that meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(xi)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter emissions.

(B) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when an increase in particulate matter emissions over a preset level is detected.

(C) For positive pressure fabric filters, a bag leak detector must be installed in each fabric filter compartment or cell. If a negative pressure or induced air filter is used, the bag leak detector must be installed downstream of the fabric filter. Where multiple bag leak detectors are required (for either type of fabric filter), the system instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(D) The bag leak detection system shall be installed, operated, calibrated and maintained in a manner consistent with available guidance from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, in the absence of such guidance, the manufacturer's written specifications and instructions.

(E) Calibration of the system shall, at a minimum, consist of establishing the relative baseline output level by adjusting the range and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.

(F) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator shall not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as established in an operation and maintenance plan that is to be submitted with the Precompliance plan. In no event shall the sensitivity be increased more than 100 percent or decreased by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection which demonstrates the baghouse is in good operating condition.

(G) If the alarm on a bag leak detection system is triggered, the owner or operator shall, within 1 hour of an alarm, initiate the procedures to identify the cause of the alarm and take corrective action as specified in the corrective action plan.

(xii) For each waste management unit, treatment process, or control device used to comply with § 63.1362(d), the owner or operator shall comply with the procedures specified in § 63.143 of subpart G of this part, except that when the procedures to request approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures in § 63.151(f) are referred to in § 63.143(d)(3), the procedures in paragraph (b)(4) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
