
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1366 Monitoring and inspection requirements.
####### Averaging periods.

(2)Averaging periods for parametric monitoring levels shall be established according to paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, a daily (24-hour) or block average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter level set according to the procedures in (b)(3)(iii) of this section recorded during the operating day or block.

(ii) The operating day or block shall be defined in the Notification of Compliance Status report. The operating day may be from midnight to midnight or another continuous 24-hour period. The operating block may be used as an averaging period only for vents from batch operations, and is limited to a period of time that is, at a maximum, equal to the time from the beginning to end of a series of consecutive batch operations.

(iii) Monitoring values taken during periods in which the control devices are not controlling HAP from an emission stream subject to the standards in ยง 63.1362, as indicated by periods of no flow or periods when only streams that are not subject to the standards in ยง 63.1362 are controlled, shall not be considered in the averages. Where flow to the device could be intermittent, the owner or operator shall install, calibrate and operate a flow indicator at the inlet or outlet of the control device to identify periods of no flow.
