
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1367 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of emissions averaging.

(d)The owner or operator of an affected source that chooses to comply with the requirements of § 63.1362(h) shall maintain up-to-date records of the following information:

(1) An Emissions Averaging Plan which shall include in the plan, for all emission points included in each of the emissions averages, the information listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The identification of all emission points in each emissions average.

(ii) The values of all parameters needed for input to the emission debits and credits equations in § 63.1365(h).

(iii) The calculations used to obtain the debits and credits.

(iv) The estimated values for all parameters required to be monitored under § 63.1366(g) for each emission point included in an average. These parameter values, or as appropriate, limited ranges for parameter values, shall be specified as enforceable operating conditions for the operation of the process, storage vessel, or waste management unit, as appropriate. Changes to the parameters must be reported as required by § 63.1368(k).

(v) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping and reporting provisions in § 63.1365(h), § 63.1366(g), and § 63.1368(k) that are applicable to each emission point in the emissions average will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance.

(2) The Emissions Averaging Plan shall demonstrate that the emissions from the emission points proposed to be included in the average will not result in greater hazard or, at the option of the operating permit authority, greater risk to human health or the environment than if the emission points were controlled according to the provisions in § 63.1362(b) through (d).

(i) This demonstration of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made to the satisfaction of the operating permit authority.

(A) The Administrator may require an owner or operator to use specific methodologies and procedures for making a hazard or risk determination.

(B) The demonstration and approval of hazard or risk equivalency shall be made according to any guidance that the Administrator makes available for use or any other technically sound information or methods.

(ii) An Emissions Averaging Plan that does not demonstrate hazard or risk equivalency to the satisfaction of the Administrator shall not be approved. The Administrator may require such adjustments to the Emissions Averaging Plan as are necessary in order to ensure that the average will not result in greater hazard or risk to human health or the environment than would result if the emission points were controlled according to § 63.1362(b) through (d).

(iii) A hazard or risk equivalency demonstration must satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii) (A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Be a quantitative, comparative chemical hazard or risk assessment;

(B) Account for differences between averaging and nonaveraging options in chemical hazard or risk to human health or the environment; and

(C) Meet any requirements set by the Administrator for such demonstrations.

(3) Records as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(4) A calculation of the debits and credits as specified in § 63.1365(h) for the last quarter and the prior four quarters.

(e) The owner or operator of an affected source subject to the requirements for heat exchanger systems in § 63.1362(g) shall retain the records as specified in § 63.104(f)(1)(i) through (iv).
