
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1367 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records of equipment operation.

(b)The owner or operator must keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (11) of this section up-to-date and readily accessible.

(1) Each measurement of a control device operating parameter monitored in accordance with § 63.1366 and each measurement of a treatment process parameter monitored in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1362(d).

(2) For processes subject to § 63.1362(g), records of consumption, production, and the rolling average values of the HAP and VOC factors.

(3) For each continuous monitoring system used to comply with the alternative standards in § 63.1362(b)(6) and (c)(4), records documenting the completion of calibration checks and maintenance of the continuous monitoring systems.

(4) For processes in compliance with the 0.15 Mg/yr emission limit of § 63.1362(b)(2)(i) or (b)(4)(i), daily records of the rolling annual calculations of uncontrolled emissions.

(5) For each bag leak detector used to monitor particulate HAP emissions from a fabric filter, the owner or operator shall maintain records of any bag leak detection alarm, including the date and time, with a brief explanation of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken.

(6) The owner or operator of an affected source that complies with the standards for process vents, storage tanks, and wastewater systems shall maintain up-to-date, readily accessible records of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (vii) of this section to document that HAP emissions or HAP loadings (for wastewater) are below the limits specified in § 63.1362:

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(ix) of this section, the initial calculations of uncontrolled and controlled emissions of gaseous organic HAP and HCl per batch for each process.

(ii) The wastewater concentrations and flow rates per POD and process.

(iii) The number of batches per year for each batch process.

(iv) The operating hours per year for continuous processes.

(v) The number of batches and the number of operating hours for processes that contain both batch and continuous operations.

(vi) The number of tank turnovers per year, if used in an emissions average or for determining applicability of a new PAI process unit.

(vii) A description of absolute or hypothetical peak-case operating conditions as determined using the procedures in § 63.1365(b)(11).

(viii) Periods of planned routine maintenance as described in § 63.1362(c)(5).
