
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1367 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### 1,2

(ix) As an alternative to the records in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, a record of the determination that the conditions in § 63.1365(b)(11)(iii)(D)() or () are met.

(7) Daily schedule or log of each operating scenario updated daily or, at a minimum, each time a different operating scenario is put into operation.

(8) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.1362(c)(6), the owner or operator must keep records of the DOT certification required by § 63.1362(c)(6)(ii) and the pressure relief vent setting and leak detection records specified in § 63.1362(c)(6)(v).

(9) If the owner or operator elects to develop process unit groups, the owner or operator must keep records of the PAI and non-PAI process units in the process unit group, including records of the operating time for process units used to establish the process unit group. The owner or operator must also keep records of any redetermination of the primary product for the process unit group.

(10) All maintenance performed on the air pollution control equipment.

(11) If the owner or operator elects to comply with § 63.1362(c) by installing a floating roof, the owner or operator must keep records of each inspection and seal gap measurement in accordance with § 63.123(c) through (e) as applicable.
