
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### § 49.123 General provisions.
######## Incorporation by reference.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(e)The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and a notice of any change in these materials will be published in theThe materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted below, or are available for inspection at EPA's Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, located at 1301 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room B102, Mail Code 6102T, Washington, D.C. 20004, at EPA Region 10, Office of Air, Waste, and Toxics, 10th Floor, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, Washington 98101, or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call (202) 741-6030, or go to:

(1) The materials listed below are available for purchase from at least one of the following addresses: ASTM International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-2959; or University Microfilms International, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106.

(i) ASTM D388-99(Reapproved 2004), Standard Classification of Coals by Rank, Incorporation by reference (IBR) approved for § 49.123(a).

(ii) ASTM D396-04, Standard Specification for Fuel Oils, IBR approved for § 49.123(a).

(iii) ASTM D240-02, Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Liquid Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter, IBR approved for § 49.123(a).

(iv) ASTM D1826-94(Reapproved 2003), Standard Test Method for Calorific (Heating) Value of Gases in Natural Gas Range by Continuous Recording Calorimeter, IBR approved for § 49.123(a).

(v) ASTM D5865-04, Standard Test Method for Gross Calorific Value of Coal and Coke, IBR approved for § 49.123(a).

(vi) ASTM E711-87(Reapproved 2004) Standard Test Method for Gross Calorific Value of Refuse-Derived Fuel by the Bomb Calorimeter, IBR approved for § 49.123(a).

(vii) ASTM D2880-03, Standard Specification for Gas Turbine Fuel Oils, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(1).

(viii) ASTM D4294-03, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products by Energy-Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectroscopy, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(1).

(ix) ASTM D6021-96(Reapproved 2001), Standard Test Method for Measurement of Total Hydrogen Sulfide in Residual Fuels by Multiple Headspace Extraction and Sulfur Specific Detection, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(1).

(x) ASTM D3177-02, Standard Test Methods for Total Sulfur in the Analysis Sample of Coal and Coke, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(2).

(xi) ASTM D4239-04a, Standard Test Methods for Sulfur in the Analysis Sample of Coal and Coke Using High Temperature Tube Furnace Combustion Methods, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(2).

(xii) ASTM D2492-02, Standard Test Method for Forms of Sulfur in Coal, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(2).

(xiii) ASTM E775-87(Reapproved 2004), Standard Test Methods for Total Sulfur in the Analysis Sample of Refuse-Derived Fuel, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(3).

(xiv) ASTM D1072-90(Reapproved 1999), Standard Test Method for Total Sulfur in Fuel Gases, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xv) ASTM D3246-96, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Gas by Oxidative Microcoulometry, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xvi) ASTM D4084-94(Reapproved 1999) Standard Test Method for Analysis of Hydrogen Sulfide in Gaseous Fuels (Lead Acetate Reaction Rate Method), IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xvii) ASTM D5504-01, Standard Test Method for Determination of Sulfur Compounds in Natural Gas and Gaseous Fuels by Gas Chromatography and Chemiluminescence, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xviii) ASTM D4468-85(Reapproved 2000), Standard Test Method for Total Sulfur in Gaseous Fuels by Hydrogenolysis and Rateometric Colorimetry, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xix) ASTM D2622-03, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products by Wavelength Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometry, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xx) ASTM D6228-98(Reapproved 2003), Standard Test Method for Determination of Sulfur Compounds in Natural Gas and Gaseous Fuels by Gas Chromatography and Flame Photometric Detection, IBR approved for § 49.130(e)(4).

(xxi) ASTM D5865-10 (Approved January 1, 2010), Standard Test Method for Gross Calorific Value of Coal and Coke, IBR approved for § 49.123(a).
