
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1368 Reporting requirements.
####### Precompliance plan.

(e)The Precompliance plan shall be submitted at least 3 months prior to the compliance date of the standard. For new sources, the Precompliance plan shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction. The Administrator shall have 90 days to approve or disapprove the Precompliance plan. The Precompliance plan shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves it in writing, or fails to disapprove it in writing within the 90-day time period. The 90-day period shall begin when the Administrator receives the Precompliance plan. If the Precompliance plan is disapproved, the owner or operator must still be in compliance with the standard by the compliance date. To change any of the information submitted in the Precompliance plan or to submit a Precompliance plan for the first time after the compliance date, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 90 days before the planned change is to be implemented; the change shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the change in writing, or fails to disapprove the change in writing within 90 days of receipt of the change. The Precompliance plan shall include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Requests for approval to use alternative monitoring parameters or requests to set monitoring parameters according to § 63.1366(b)(4).

(2) Descriptions of the daily or per batch demonstrations to verify that control devices subject to § 63.1366(b)(1)(i) are operating as designed.

(3) Data and rationale used to support the parametric monitoring level(s) that are set according to § 63.1366(b)(3)(ii)(B).

(4) For owners and operators complying with the requirements of § 63.1362(g), the pollution prevention demonstration summary required in § 63.1365(g)(1).

(5) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions from process vents as required in § 63.1365(c)(2)(ii).

(6) For fabric filters that are monitored with bag leak detectors, an operation and maintenance plan that describes proper operation and maintenance procedures, and a corrective action plan that describes corrective actions to be taken, and the timing of those actions, when the particulate matter concentration exceeds the setpoint and activates the alarm.
