
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### ยง 63.1368 Reporting requirements.
####### Submittal schedule.

(1)Except as provided in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit Periodic reports semiannually. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status report is due. Each subsequent Periodic report shall cover the 6-month period following the preceding period and shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of the applicable period.

(i) The Administrator may determine on a case-by-case basis that more frequent reporting is necessary to accurately assess the compliance status of the affected source.

(ii) Quarterly reports shall be submitted when the monitoring data are used to comply with the alternative standards in ยง 63.1362(b)(6) or (c)(4) and the source experiences excess emissions. Once an affected source reports excess emissions, the affected source shall follow a quarterly reporting format until a request to reduce reporting frequency is approved. If an owner or operator submits a request to reduce the frequency of reporting, the provisions in ยง 63.10(e)(3) (ii) and (iii) of subpart A of this part shall apply, except that the term "excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and/or summary report" shall mean "Periodic report" for the purposes of this section.
