
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1368 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of compliance status report.

(f)The Notification of Compliance Status report required under § 63.9(h) shall be submitted no later than 150 calendar days after the compliance date and shall include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) The results of any applicability determinations, emission calculations, or analyses used to identify and quantify HAP emissions from the affected source.

(2) The results of emissions profiles, performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, or calculations used to demonstrate compliance. For performance tests, results should include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures.

(3) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the values of monitored parameters established during the initial compliance determinations, including data and calculations to support the levels established.

(4) Operating scenarios.

(5) Descriptions of absolute or hypothetical peak-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices.

(6) Identification of emission points subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.1360(i) and the authority under which the owner or operator will comply, and identification of emission sources discharging to devices described by § 63.1362(l).

(7) Anticipated periods of planned routine maintenance during which the owner or operator would not be in compliance with the provisions in § 63.1362(c)(1) through (4).

(8) Percentage of total production from a PAI process unit that is anticipated to be produced for use as a PAI in the 3 years after either June 23, 1999 or startup, whichever is later.

(9) Records of the initial process units used to create each process unit group, if applicable.
