
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1368 Reporting requirements.
####### Content of periodic report.

(2)The owner or operator shall include the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (xii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Each Periodic report must include the information in § 63.10(e)(3)(vi)(A) through (M) of subpart A of this part, as applicable.

(ii) If the total duration of excess emissions, parameter exceedances, or excursions for the reporting period is 1 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, or the total continuous monitoring system downtime for the reporting period is 5 percent or greater of the total operating time for the reporting period, the Periodic report must include the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Monitoring data, including 15-minute monitoring values as well as daily average values of monitored parameters, for all operating days when the average values were outside the ranges established in the Notification of Compliance Status report or operating permit.

(B) Duration of excursions, as defined in § 63.1366(b)(7).

(C) Operating logs and operating scenarios for all operating days when the values are outside the levels established in the Notification of Compliance Status report or operating permit.

(D) When a continuous monitoring system is used, the information required in § 63.10(c)(5) through (13) of subpart A of this part.

(iii) For each vapor collection system or closed vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.1362(j)(1), records required under § 63.1366(f) of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device through a bypass line. For each vapor collection system or closed vent system with a bypass line subject to § 63.1362(j)(2), records required under § 63.1366(f) of all periods in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.

(iv) The information in paragraphs (g)(2)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section shall be stated in the Periodic report, when applicable.

(A) No excess emissions.

(B) No exceedances of a parameter.

(C) No excursions.

(D) No continuous monitoring system has been inoperative, out of control, repaired, or adjusted.

(v) For each storage vessel subject to control requirements:

(A) Actual periods of planned routine maintenance during the reporting period in which the control device does not meet the specifications of § 63.1362(c)(5); and

(B) Anticipated periods of planned routine maintenance for the next reporting period.

(vi) For each PAI process unit that does not meet the definition of primary use, the percentage of the production in the reporting period produced for use as a PAI.

(viii) Updates to the corrective action plan.

(ix) Records of process units added to each process unit group, if applicable.

(x) Records of redetermination of the primary product for a process unit group.

(xi) For each inspection conducted in accordance with § 63.1366(h)(2) or (3) during which a leak is detected, the records specify in § 63.1367(h)(4) must be included in the next Periodic report.

(xii) If the owner or operator elects to comply with the provisions of § 63.1362(c) by installing a floating roof, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.122(d) through (f) as applicable. References to § 63.152 in § 63.122 shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.
