
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Pesticide Active Ingredient Production
###### § 63.1368 Reporting requirements.
####### Reports of emissions averaging.

(k)The owner or operator of an affected source that chooses to comply with the requirements of § 63.1362(h) shall submit all information as specified in § 63.1367(d) for all emission points included in the emissions average. The owner or operator shall also submit to the Administrator all information specified in paragraph (g) of this section for each emission point included in the emissions average.

(1) The reports shall also include the information listed in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) Any changes to the processes, storage tanks, or waste management unit included in the average.

(ii) The calculation of the debits and credits for the reporting period.

(iii) Changes to the Emissions Averaging Plan which affect the calculation methodology of uncontrolled or controlled emissions or the hazard or risk equivalency determination.

(iv) Any changes to the parameters monitored according to § 63.1366(g).

(2) Every second semiannual or fourth quarterly report, as appropriate, shall include the results according to § 63.1367(d)(4) to demonstrate the emissions averaging provisions of §§ 63.1362(h), 63.1365(h), 63.1366(g), and 63.1367(d) are satisfied.
