
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wool Fiberglass Manufacturing
###### ยง 63.1385 Test methods and procedures.

(a) The owner or operator shall use the following methods to determine compliance with the applicable emission limits:

(1) Method 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for the selection of the sampling port location and number of sampling ports;

(2) Method 2 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for volumetric flow rate;

(3) Method 3 or 3A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for Oand COfor diluent measurements needed to correct the concentration measurements to a standard basis;

(4) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for moisture content of the stack gas;

(5) Method 5 or Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) for the concentration of total PM. When using Method 5, each run must consist of a minimum sample volume of 2 dry standard cubic meters (dscm). When using Method 29, each run must consist of a minimum sample volume of 3 dscm. When measuring PM concentration using either Method 5 or 29, the probe and filter holder heating system must be set to provide a gas temperature no greater than 120+/-14 &#xB0;C (248+/-25 &#xB0;F).

(6) For measuring the concentration of formaldehyde, use one of the following test methods:

(i) Method 318 (appendix A of this part). Each test run must consist of a minimum of 10 spectra.

(ii) Method 316 (appendix A of this part). Each test run must consist of a minimum of 2 dry standard cubic meters (dscm) of sample volume.

(7) Method contained in appendix A of this subpart for the determination of product LOI;

(8) Method contained in appendix B of this subpart for the determination of the free-formaldehyde content of resin. The owner or operator shall use vendor specifications to determine the free-phenol content of resin.

(9) Method contained in appendix C of this subpart for the determination of product density;

(10) For measuring the concentration of phenol, use Method 318 (appendix A of this part). Each test run must consist of a minimum of 10 spectra.

(11) For measuring the concentration of methanol, use one of the following test methods:

(i) Method 318 (appendix A of this part). Each test run must consist of a minimum of 10 spectra.

(ii) Method 308 (appendix A of this part). Each test run must consist of a minimum of 2 hours.

(12) Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) for the concentration of chromium compounds. Each test run must consist of a minimum sample volume of 3 dscm.

(13) An alternative method, subject to approval by the Administrator.

(b) Each performance test shall consist of 3 runs. The owner or operator shall use the average of the three runs in the applicable equation for determining compliance.
