
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wool Fiberglass Manufacturing
###### § 63.1384 Performance test requirements.

(a) The owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits in § 63.1382. Compliance is demonstrated when the emission rate of the pollutant is equal to or less than each of the applicable emission limits in § 63.1382. The owner or operator shall conduct the performance test according to the procedures in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A and in this section. If the owner or operator conducted an emissions test in 2016 according to the procedures specified in § 63.1384(a)(9) and § 63.1385 in response to the EPA's Information Collection Request, the owner or operator can use the results of the emissions test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits for rotary spin lines specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(1) All monitoring systems and equipment must be installed, operational, and calibrated prior to the performance test.

(2) Unless a different frequency is specified in this section, the owner or operator must monitor and record process and/or add-on control device parameters at least every 15 minutes during the performance tests. The arithmetic average for each parameter must be calculated using all of the recorded measurements for the parameter.

(3) During each performance test, the owner or operator must monitor and record the glass pull rate for each glass-melting furnace and, if different, the glass pull rate for each rotary spin manufacturing line and flame attenuation manufacturing line. Record the glass pull rate every 15 minutes during any performance test required by this subpart and determine the arithmetic average of the recorded measurements for each test run and calculate the average of the three test runs. If a rotary spin or flame attenuation line shares one or more emissions points with another rotary spin or flame attenuation line(s), owners or operators can conduct the performance test while each of the process lines with the shared emissions point(s) is operating as specified in paragraph (a)(8) of this section, rather than testing each of the shared lines separately. In these cases, owners or operators must use the combined glass pull rate for the process lines with the shared emissions point(s) to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(4) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance test for each existing and new gas-fired glass-melting furnace. During the performance test of each gas-fired glass-melting furnace, the owner or operator must measure and record the materials mix, including the percentages of raw materials and cullet, melted in the furnace during the performance test.

(5) During the performance test, the owner or operator of a glass-melting furnace controlled by an ESP shall monitor and record the ESP parameter level(s), as specified in the operations, maintenance, and monitoring plan, and establish the minimum and/or maximum value(s) that will be used to demonstrate compliance after the initial performance test.

(6) During the performance test, the owner or operator of a cold top electric furnace that is not equipped with an add-on control device for PM emissions control, must monitor and record the temperature 46 to 61 centimeters (18 to 24 inches) above the molten glass surface to ensure that the maximum temperature does not exceed 120 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F).

(7) During the performance test, the owner or operator of a glass melting furnace (other than a cold top electric furnace) that is not equipped with an add-on control device for PM emissions control, must monitor and record the furnace parameter level, and establish the minimum and/or maximum value(s) that will be used to demonstrate compliance after the initial performance test.

(8) The owner or operator must conduct a performance test for each rotary spin manufacturing line, subject to this subpart, while producing the building insulation with the highest LOI expected to be produced on that line; and for each flame attenuation manufacturing line, subject to this subpart, while producing the heavy-density product or pipe product with the highest LOI expected to be produced on the affected line.

(9) The owner or operator of each rotary spin manufacturing line and flame attenuation manufacturing line regulated by this subpart must conduct performance tests using the resin with the highest free-formaldehyde content. During the performance test of each rotary spin manufacturing line and flame attenuation manufacturing line regulated by this subpart, the owner or operator shall monitor and record the free-formaldehyde and free-phenol contents of the resin, the binder formulation used, and the product LOI and density.

(10) During the performance test, the owner or operator of a rotary spin manufacturing line or flame attenuation manufacturing line who plans to use process modifications to comply with the emission limits in § 63.1382 must monitor and record the process parameter level(s), as specified in the operations, maintenance, and monitoring plan, which will be used to demonstrate compliance after the initial performance test.

(11) During the performance test, the owner or operator of a rotary spin manufacturing line or flame attenuation manufacturing line who plans to use a wet scrubbing control device to comply with the emission limits in § 63.1382 must continuously monitor and record the pressure drop across the scrubber, the scrubbing liquid flow rate, and addition of any chemical to the scrubber, including the chemical feed rate, and establish the minimum and/or maximum value(s) that will be used to determine compliance after the initial performance test.

(12) During the performance test, the owner or operator of a rotary spin manufacturing line or affected flame attenuation manufacturing line shall continuously record the operating temperature of each incinerator and record the average during each 1-hour test; the average operating temperature of the three 1-hour tests shall be used to monitor compliance.

(13) Unless disapproved by the Administrator, an owner or operator of a rotary spin or flame attenuation manufacturing line regulated by this subpart may conduct short-term experimental production runs using binder formulations or other process modifications where the process parameter values would be outside those established during performance tests without first conducting performance tests. Such runs must not exceed 1 week in duration unless the Administrator approves a longer period. The owner or operator must notify the Administrator and postmark or deliver the notification at least 15 days prior to commencement of the short-term experimental production runs. The Administrator must inform the owner or operator of a decision to disapprove or must request additional information prior to the date of the short-term experimental production runs. Notification of intent to perform an experimental short-term production run shall include the following information:

(i) The purpose of the experimental production run;

(ii) The affected line;

(iii) How the established process parameters will deviate from previously approved levels;

(iv) The duration of the experimental production run;

(v) The date and time of the experimental production run; and

(vi) A description of any emission testing to be performed during the experimental production run.

(b) To determine compliance with the PM emission limit for glass-melting furnaces, use the following equation:

(c) To determine compliance with the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, for formaldehyde and methanol for rotary spin manufacturing lines; formaldehyde, phenol, and methanol for flame attenuation manufacturing lines; and chromium compounds for gas-fired glass-melting furnaces, use the following equation:

(d) Following the initial performance or compliance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with the chromium compounds emissions limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, you must conduct an annual performance test for chromium compounds emissions from each gas-fired glass-melting furnace (no later than 12 calendar months following the previous compliance test).

(e) Following the initial performance or compliance test to demonstrate compliance with the PM, formaldehyde, phenol, and methanol emissions limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart, you must conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with each of the applicable PM, formaldehyde, phenol, and methanol emissions limits in § 63.1382 at least once every five years.
