
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wool Fiberglass Manufacturing
###### ยง 63.1386 Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
####### Records and reports for a failure to meet a standard.

(c)(1) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet a standard, record the number of failures since the prior notification of compliance status. For each failure record the date, time, and duration of each failure.

(2) For each failure to meet a standard record and retain a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard for which the source failed to meet the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 63.1382, including corrective actions to restore process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(4) If an affected unit fails to meet a standard, report such events in the notification of compliance status required by ยง 63.1386(a)(7). Report the number of failures to meet a standard since the prior notification. For each instance, report the date, time, and duration of each failure. For each failure the report must include a list of the affected units or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
