
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wool Fiberglass Manufacturing
###### Appendix A to Subpart NNN of Part 63 - Method for the Determination of LOI

The purpose of this test is to determine the LOI of cured blanket insulation. The method is applicable to all cured board and blanket products.

2.1 Scale sensitive to 0.1 gram.

2.2 Furnace designed to heat to at least 540 &#xB0;C (1,000 &#xB0;F) and controllable to +/-10 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F).

2.3 Wire tray for holding specimen while in furnace.

3.1 Cut a strip along the entire width of the product that will weigh at least 10.0 grams. Sample should be free of dirt or foreign matter.

3.2 Cut the sample into pieces approximately 12 inches long, weigh to the nearest 0.1 gram and record. Place in wire tray. Sample should not be compressed or overhang on tray edges.

3.3 Place specimen in furnace at 540 &#xB0;C (1,000 &#xB0;F), +/-10 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) for 15 to 20 minutes to insure complete oxidation. After ignition, fibers should be white and should not be fused together.

3.4 Remove specimen from the furnace and cool to room temperature.

3.5 Weigh cooled specimen and wire tray to the nearest 0.1 gram. Deduct the weight of the wire tray and then calculate the loss in weight as a percent of the original specimen weight.
