
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1401 Compliance schedule.

(a) New affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after December 14, 1998, shall be in compliance with this subpart (except § 63.1411(c)) upon initial start-up or January 20, 2000, whichever is later. New affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after December 14, 1998, but on or before January 9, 2014, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1411(c) by October 9, 2017. New affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after January 9, 2014, shall be in compliance with the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1411(c) upon initial startup or by October 8, 2014.

(b) Existing affected sources shall be in compliance with this subpart (except §§ 63.1404, 63.1405, and 63.1411(c)) no later than 3 years after January 20, 2000. Existing affected sources shall be in compliance with the storage vessel requirements of § 63.1404 and the pressure relief device monitoring requirements of § 63.1411(c) by October 9, 2017. Existing affected sources shall be in compliance with the continuous process vent requirements of § 63.1405(b) by October 15, 2019.

(c) If an affected source using the exemption provided in § 63.1400(f) has an actual annual production of amino/phenolic resins exceeding 800 Mg/yr for any 12-month period, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of § 63.1410 for the affected source within 3 years. The starting point for the 3-year compliance time period shall be the end of the 12-month period in which actual annual production for amino/phenolic resins exceeds 800 Mg/yr.

(d) Pursuant to section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Clean Air Act, an owner or operator may request an extension allowing the existing affected source up to 1 additional year to comply with section 112(d) standards. For purposes of this subpart, a request for an extension shall be submitted to the permitting authority as part of the operating permit application or to the Administrator as a separate submittal or as part of the Precompliance Report.

(1) Requests for extensions shall be submitted no later than 120 days prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section and shall include the data described in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D). The dates specified in § 63.6(i) for submittal of requests for extensions shall not apply to this subpart.

(2) An owner or operator may submit a compliance extension request less than 120 days prior to the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section provided that the need for the compliance extension arose after that date, and the need arose due to circumstances beyond reasonable control of the owner or operator. This request shall include, in addition to the information specified in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D), a statement of the reasons additional time is needed and the date when the owner or operator first learned of the circumstances necessitating a request for compliance extension.

(e) All terms in this subpart that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (e.g., weekly, monthly, quarterly, annual), unless specified otherwise, refer to the standard calendar periods.

(1) Notwithstanding time periods specified in this subpart for completion of required tasks, such time periods may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator, as specified in subpart A of this part (e.g., a period could begin on the compliance date or another date, rather than on the first day of the standard calendar period). For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period shall remain in effect until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.

(2) Where the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date occurs after the beginning of the period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as appropriate:

(i) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the compliance deadline occurs, if there remain at least 3 days for tasks that must be performed weekly, at least 2 weeks for tasks that must be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that must be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that must be performed annually; or

(ii) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance deadline occurs.

(3) In all instances where a provision of this subpart requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during the specified period, provided that the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period.
