
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1400 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Storage vessel applicability determination.

(h)The owner or operator of a storage vessel at a new affected source shall determine assignment to a process unit as follows:

(1) If a storage vessel is already subject to another subpart of part 63 on January 20, 2000, said storage vessel shall continue to be assigned to the process unit subject to the other subpart.

(2) If a storage vessel is dedicated to a single process unit, the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit.

(3) If a storage vessel is shared among process units, then the storage vessel shall be assigned to that process unit located on the same plant site as the storage vessel that has the greatest input into or output from the storage vessel (i.e., said process unit has the predominant use of the storage vessel).

(4) If predominant use cannot be determined for a storage vessel that is shared among process units, and if one or more of those process units is an APPU subject to this subpart, the storage vessel shall be assigned to any of the APPUs.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) If the predominant use of a storage vessel varies from year to year, then predominant use shall be determined based on the use as follows:

(i) For existing affected sources, use shall be determined based on the following:

(A) The year preceding January 20, 2000; or

(B) The expected use for the 5 years following January 20, 2000.

(ii) For new affected sources, use shall be determined based on the first 5 years after initial start-up.

(7) Where the storage vessel is located in a tank farm (including a marine tank farm), the assignment of the storage vessel shall be determined according to paragraphs (h)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section. Only those storage vessels where a portion or all of the input into or output from the storage vessel is hardpiped directly to one or more process units are covered by this paragraph.

(i) The storage vessel is assigned to a process unit if the product or raw material entering or leaving the process unit flows directly into (or from) the storage vessel in the tank farm without passing through any intervening storage vessel. An intervening storage vessel means a storage vessel connected by hardpiping both to the process unit and to the storage vessel in the tank farm.

(ii) If there are two or more process units that meet the criteria of paragraph (h)(7)(i) of this section with respect to a storage vessel, the storage vessel shall be assigned to one of those process units according to the provisions of paragraphs (h)(3) through (6) of this section.

(8) If the storage vessel begins receiving material from (or sending material to) a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a process unit, the owner or operator shall reevaluate the applicability of this subpart to the storage vessel according to the procedures in paragraphs (h)(3) through (7) of this section.
