
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1400 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Applicability of other subparts to this subpart.

(i)Paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) describe the applicability of other subparts to this subpart.

(1) After the compliance dates specified in this section, a storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to and complying with the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, shall continue to comply with 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb. After the compliance dates specified in this section, a storage vessel that is assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, but the owner or operator has not been required to apply controls as part of complying with 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, said storage vessel shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.

(2) Affected sources subject to this subpart that are also subject to the provisions of subpart Q of this part shall comply with both subparts.

(3) After the compliance dates specified in this section, an affected source subject to this subpart that is also subject to the provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, or the provisions of subpart H of this part, is required to comply only with the provisions of this subpart. After the compliance dates specified in this section, said source shall no longer be subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV, or subpart H of this part, as appropriate.

(4) After the applicable compliance date specified in this subpart, if a heat exchange system subject to this subpart is also subject to a standard identified in paragraph (i)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section, compliance with the applicable provisions of the standard identified in paragraph (i)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section shall constitute compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart with respect to that heat exchange system.

(i) Subpart F of this part.

(ii) A subpart of this part that requires compliance with ยง 63.104 (e.g., subpart U of this part).

(5) After the compliance dates specified in this subpart, if any combustion device, recovery device or recapture device subject to this subpart is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, or CC, or is subject to monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in 40 CFR part 265, subparts AA, BB, or CC, and the owner or operator complies with the periodic reporting requirements under 40 CFR part 264, subparts AA, BB, or CC, that would apply to the device if the facility had final-permitted status, the owner or operator may elect to comply either with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart, or with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements in 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265, as described in this paragraph, which shall constitute compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. If the owner or operator elects to comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265, the owner or operator shall report all information required by ยง 63.1417(f), Periodic Reports, as part of complying with the requirements of 40 CFR parts 264 and/or 265.
