
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1407 Non-reactor batch process vent provisions.
####### Emission standards.

(a)(1) Owners or operators of non-reactor batch process vents located at new or existing affected sources with 0.25 tons per year (0.23 megagrams per year) of uncontrolled organic HAP emissions or greater from the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, as appropriate. As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with paragraph (b) of this section. Owners or operators shall determine uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. If the owner or operator finds that uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source are less than 0.25 tons per year (0.23 megagrams per year), non-reactor batch process vents are not subject to the control requirements of this section. Further, the owner or operator shall, when requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that organic HAP emissions for the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source are less than 0.25 tons per year (0.23 megagrams per year).

(2) The owner or operator of a non-reactor batch process vent located at a new affected source shall:

(i) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare; or

(ii) For the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source, reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 76 weight percent using a control device or control technology.

(3) The owner or operator of a non-reactor batch process vent located at an existing affected source shall:

(i) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare; or

(ii) For the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source, reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 62 weight percent using a control device or control technology.
