
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1406 Reactor batch process vent provisions.
####### Emission standards.

(a)Owners or operators of reactor batch process vents located at new or existing affected sources shall comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section, as appropriate. As an alternative to complying with paragraph (a) of this section, an owner or operator may comply with paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator of a reactor batch process vent located at a new affected source shall control organic HAP emissions by complying with either paragraph (a)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare.

(ii) Reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 95 weight percent using a control device or control technology.

(iii) Reduce organic HAP emissions from the collection of all reactor batch process vents within the affected source, as a whole, to 0.0045 kilogram of organic HAP per megagram of product or less for solvent-based resin production, or to 0.0004 kilogram of organic HAP per megagram of product or less for non-solvent-based resin production.

(2) The owner or operator of a reactor batch process vent located at an existing affected source shall control organic HAP emissions by complying with either paragraph (a)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) Vent all emissions of organic HAP to a flare.

(ii) Reduce organic HAP emissions for the batch cycle by 83 weight percent using a control device or control technology.

(iii) Reduce organic HAP emissions from the collection of all reactor batch process vents within the affected source, as a whole, to 0.0567 kilogram of organic HAP per megagram of product or less for solvent-based resin production, or to 0.0057 kilogram of organic HAP per megagram of product or less for non-solvent-based resin production.
