
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1410 Equipment leak provisions.

The owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU for all equipment, as defined under § 63.1402, that contains or contacts 5 weight-percent HAP or greater and operates 300 hours per year or more, except § 63.1030. The weight-percent HAP is determined for equipment using the organic HAP concentration measurement methods specified in § 63.1414(a). When complying with the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, as referred to by 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU, the following apply for purposes of this subpart:

(a) Design evaluations are allowed for control devices that control emission points with total emissions less than 10 tons of organic HAP per year before control (i.e., small control devices).

(b) When 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS refers to specific test methods for the measurement of organic HAP concentration, the test methods presented in § 63.1414(a) shall be used.

(c) The option to measure TOC instead of organic HAP, as a basis for demonstrating compliance, is not allowed.

(d) Excused excursions are not allowed.

(e) The provisions in § 63.1403(b), rather than the provisions in § 63.982(f), are to be followed for combined vent streams.

(f) When a scrubber is used as a control device, the owner or operator shall follow the guidance provided in this subpart for design evaluations or performance tests, as appropriate, and for monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(g) When there are conflicts between the due dates for reports presented in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS and this subpart, reports shall be submitted according to the due dates presented in this subpart.

(h) When there are conflicts between the recordkeeping and reporting requirements presented in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS and this subpart, the owner or operator shall either follow both sets of requirements (i.e., follow the requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS for emission points covered by 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS and follow the requirements of this subpart for emission points covered by this subpart) or shall follow the set of requirements they prefer. If an owner or operator chooses to follow just one set of requirements, the owner or operator shall identify which set of requirements are being followed and which set of requirements are being disregarded in the appropriate report.
