
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.126 Rule for limiting fugitive particulate matter emissions.
######## What are the requirements for sources of fugitive particulate matter emissions?

(d)(1) The owner or operator of any source of fugitive particulate matter emissions, including any source or activity engaged in materials handling or storage, construction, demolition, or any other operation that is or may be a source of fugitive particulate matter emissions, must take all reasonable precautions to prevent fugitive particulate matter emissions and must maintain and operate the source to minimize fugitive particulate matter emissions.

(2) Reasonable precautions include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Use, where possible, of water or chemicals for control of dust in the demolition of buildings or structures, construction operations, grading of roads, or clearing of land.

(ii) Application of asphalt, oil (but not used oil), water, or other suitable chemicals on unpaved roads, materials stockpiles, and other surfaces that can create airborne dust.

(iii) Full or partial enclosure of materials stockpiles in cases where application of oil, water, or chemicals is not sufficient or appropriate to prevent particulate matter from becoming airborne.

(iv) Implementation of good housekeeping practices to avoid or minimize the accumulation of dusty materials that have the potential to become airborne, and the prompt cleanup of spilled or accumulated materials.

(v) Installation and use of hoods, fans, and fabric filters to enclose and vent the handling of dusty materials.

(vi) Adequate containment during sandblasting or other similar operations.

(vii) Covering, at all times when in motion, open bodied trucks transporting materials likely to become airborne.

(viii) The prompt removal from paved streets of earth or other material that does or may become airborne.
