
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.126 Rule for limiting fugitive particulate matter emissions.
######## Are there additional requirements that must be met?

(e)(1) A person subject to this section must:

(i) Annually survey the air pollution source(s) during typical operating conditions and meteorological conditions conducive to producing fugitive dust to determine the sources of fugitive particulate matter emissions. For new sources or new operations, a survey must be conducted within 30 days after commencing operation. Document the results of the survey, including the date and time of the survey and identification of any sources of fugitive particulate matter emissions found.

(ii) If sources of fugitive particulate matter emissions are present, determine the reasonable precautions that will be taken to prevent fugitive particulate matter emissions.

(iii) Prepare, and update as necessary following each survey, a written plan that specifies the reasonable precautions that will be taken and the procedures to be followed to prevent fugitive particulate matter emissions, including appropriate monitoring and recordkeeping. For construction or demolition activities, a written plan must be prepared prior to commencing construction or demolition.

(iv) Implement the written plan, and maintain and operate the source to minimize fugitive particulate matter emissions.

(v) Maintain records for five years that document the surveys and the reasonable precautions that were taken to prevent fugitive particulate matter emissions.

(2) The Regional Administrator may require specific actions to prevent fugitive particulate matter emissions, or impose conditions to maintain and operate the air pollution source to minimize fugitive particulate matter emissions, in a permit to construct or a permit to operate for the source.

(3) Efforts to comply with this section cannot be used as a reason for not complying with other applicable laws and ordinances.
