
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1413 Compliance demonstration procedures.
####### Small control devices.

(ii)Owners or operators are required to conduct a design evaluation for a small control device. An owner or operator may choose to conduct a performance test for a small control device and such a performance test shall follow the procedures specified in this section, as appropriate. Whenever a small control device becomes a large control device, the owner or operator shall conduct a performance test following the procedures specified in this section, as appropriate. Notification that such a performance test is required, the site-specific test plan, and the results of the performance test shall be provided to the Administrator as specified in ยง 63.1417. Except as provided in ยง 63.1415(a)(2), the parameter monitoring levels for small control devices shall be set based on the design evaluation required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Further, when setting the parameter monitoring level(s) based on the design evaluation, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in ยง 63.1417(d)(7) for review and approval as part of the Precompliance Report.
