
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1412 Continuous process vent applicability assessment procedures and methods.
####### Engineering assessment.

(k)For purposes of TRE index value determinations, engineering assessments may be used to determine continuous process vent flow rate, net heating value, and total organic HAP emission rate for the representative operating condition expected to yield the lowest TRE index value. Engineering assessments shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (k)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) If the TRE index value calculated using engineering assessment is greater than 4.0, the owner or operator is not required to perform the measurements specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section.

(2) If the TRE index value calculated using engineering assessment is less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator is required either to perform the measurements specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section for control applicability assessment or comply with the control requirements specified in ยง 63.1405(a).

(3) Engineering assessment includes, but is not limited to, the following examples:

(i) Previous test results, provided the tests are representative of current operating practices.

(ii) Bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions.

(iii) Maximum volumetric flow rate, organic HAP emission rate, organic HAP concentration, or net heating value limit specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the continuous process vent.

(iv) Design analysis based on accepted chemical engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to, the following:

(A) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum organic HAP concentrations;

(B) Estimation of maximum volumetric flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities;

(C) Estimation of organic HAP concentrations based on saturation conditions; and

(D) Estimation of maximum expected net heating value based on the stream concentration of each organic compound.
