
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.127 Rule for woodwaste burners.
######## What are the requirements for woodwaste burners?

(c)(1) Except as provided by paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of a woodwaste burner must shut down and dismantle the woodwaste burner by no later than two years after the effective date of this section. The requirement for dismantling applies to all woodwaste burners regardless of whether or not the woodwaste burners are currently operational. Until the woodwaste burner is shut down, visible emissions from the woodwaste burner must not exceed 20% opacity, averaged over any consecutive six-minute period.

(2) Until the woodwaste burner is shut down, only wood waste generated on-site may be burned or disposed of in the woodwaste burner.

(3) If there is no reasonably available alternative method of disposal for the wood waste other than by burning it on-site in a woodwaste burner, the owner or operator of the woodwaste burner that is in compliance with the opacity limit in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, may apply to the Regional Administrator for an extension of the two-year deadline. If the Regional Administrator finds that there is no reasonably available alternative method of disposal, then a two-year extension of the deadline may be granted. There is no limit to the number of extensions that may be granted by the Regional Administrator.
