
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1413 Compliance demonstration procedures.
####### Initial and continuous compliance for aggregate batch vent streams.

(d)(1) Initial compliance with the percent reduction standard specified in § 63.1408(a)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) shall be demonstrated following the procedures for continuous process vents specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(2) Initial compliance with § 63.1408(a)(1)(i) and (2)(i) (venting of emissions to a flare) shall be demonstrated following the procedures specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(3) Continuous compliance with the percent reduction standard specified in § 63.1408(a)(1)(ii) and (2)(ii) shall be demonstrated following the procedures for continuous process vents specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(4) Continuous compliance with § 63.1408(a)(1)(i) and (a)(2)(i) (venting of emissions to a flare) shall be demonstrated following the continuous monitoring procedures specified in § 63.1415.

(5) Initial and continuous compliance with the alternative standard specified in § 63.1408(b)(1) shall be demonstrated following the procedures in paragraph (f) of this section.

(6) Initial and continuous compliance with the mass emission limit specified in § 63.1408(b)(2) shall be demonstrated following the procedures in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
