
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1413 Compliance demonstration procedures.
####### Batch cycle percent reduction.

(iii)The percent reduction for the batch cycle for an individual reactor batch process vent and the overall percent reduction for the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source shall be determined using Equation 1 of this section and the control device efficiencies specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section. All information used to calculate the batch cycle percent reduction for an individual reactor batch process vent, including a definition of the batch cycle identifying all batch emission episodes, shall be recorded as specified in § 63.1416 (d)(1)(ii). All information used to calculate the overall percent reduction for the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source, including a list of all batch emission episodes from the collection of non-reactor batch process vents within the affected source, shall be recorded as specified in § 63.1416 (d)(1)(ii). This information shall include identification of those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, selected for control. This information shall include estimates of uncontrolled organic HAP emissions for those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, that are not selected for control, determined as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(D) or (E) of this section.

(A) When conducting a performance test, the control efficiency of the control device shall be determined following the procedures in § 63.1414(b)(4).

(B) For combustion control devices listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section and for flares, the control efficiency in Equation 1 of this section shall be 98 percent.

(C) If a performance test is not required, the control efficiency shall be based on the design evaluation specified in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section.

(D) For batch process vents estimated through engineering assessment, as described in § 63.1414(f)(6), to emit less than 10 tons per year of uncontrolled organic HAP emissions, the owner or operator may use in Equation 1 of this section the emissions determined using engineering assessment or may determine organic HAP emissions using any of the procedures specified in § 63.1414(d).

(E) For batch process vents estimated through engineering assessment, as described in § 63.1414(d)(6), to emit 10 tons per year or greater of uncontrolled organic HAP emissions, organic HAP emissions shall be estimated following the procedures specified in § 63.1414(d).

(F) Owners or operators designating a condenser, sometimes operated as a process condenser, as a control device shall conduct inprocess recycling and follow the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1416(d)(1)(vi).
