
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1413 Compliance demonstration procedures.
####### Flare compliance demonstrations.

(g)Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, if an owner or operator of an affected source uses a flare to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section. When using a flare to comply, the owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP concentration. If a compliance demonstration has been conducted previously for a flare, using the techniques specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section, that compliance demonstration may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if either no deliberate process changes have been made since the compliance demonstration, or the results of the compliance demonstration reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4).

(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6).

(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8), as appropriate.
