
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1414 Test methods and emission estimation equations.
####### Test methods.

(a)When required to conduct a performance test, the owner or operator shall use the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, except where another section of this subpart requires either the use of a specific test method or the use of requirements in another subpart containing specific test method requirements.

(1) Method 1 or 1A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used for selection of the sampling sites if the flow measuring device is a pitot tube, except that references to particulate matter in Method 1A do not apply for the purposes of this subpart. No traverse is necessary when Method 2A or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is used to determine gas stream volumetric flow rate.

(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is used for velocity and volumetric flow rates.

(3) Method 3, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is used for gas analysis.

(4) Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is used for stack gas moisture.

(5) The following methods shall be used to determine the organic HAP concentration.

(i) Method 316 or Method 320, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration of formaldehyde.

(ii) Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, shall be used to determine the concentration of all organic HAP other than formaldehyde.

(iii) Method 308, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, may be used as an alternative to Method 18 to determine the concentration of methanol.

(6) When complying with the alternative standard, as specified in ยง 63.1413(f), the owner or operator shall use a Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) instrument following Method PS-15, 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.
