
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1414 Test methods and emission estimation equations.
####### Emissions determined by direct measurement.

(5)The owner or operator may estimate annual organic HAP emissions for a batch emission episode by direct measurement. The test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section shall be used for direct measurement. If direct measurement is used, the owner or operator shall perform a test for the duration of a representative batch emission episode. Alternatively, the owner or operator may perform a test during only those periods of the batch emission episode for which the emission rate for the entire episode can be determined or for which the emissions are greater than the average emission rate of the batch emission episode. The owner or operator choosing either of these options shall develop an emission profile illustrating the emission rate (kilogram per unit time) over the entire batch emission episode, based on either process knowledge or test data, to demonstrate that test periods are representative. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances and process stoichiometry. Previous test results may be used to develop the emission profile provided the results are still relevant to the current batch process vent conditions. The emission profile shall be included in the site-specific test plan required by ยง 63.1417(h)(2).
