
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1414 Test methods and emission estimation equations.
####### Emissions from heating of vessels.

(4)Organic HAP emissions caused by the heating of a vessel shall be calculated using the procedures in either paragraph (d)(4)(i),(ii), or (iii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) If the final temperature to which the vessel contents is heated is lower than 50 K below the boiling point of the HAP in the vessel, then organic HAP emissions shall be calculated using the equations in paragraphs (d)(4)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Organic HAP emissions caused by heating of a vessel shall be calculated using Equation 10 of this section. The assumptions made for this calculation are atmospheric pressure of 760 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) and the displaced gas is always saturated with volatile organic compounds (VOC) vapor in equilibrium with the liquid mixture:

(B) The moles of gas displaced, Δ, is calculated using Equation 11 of this section:

(C) The initial and final pressure of the noncondensible gas in the vessel shall be calculated using Equation 12 of this section:

(D) The weighted average molecular weight of organic HAP in the displaced gas, MW, shall be calculated using Equation 13 of this section:

(ii) If the vessel contents are heated to a temperature greater than 50 K below the boiling point, then organic HAP emissions from the heating of a vessel shall be calculated as the sum of the organic HAP emissions calculated in accordance with paragraphs (d)(4)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) For the interval from the initial temperature to the temperature 50 K below the boiling point, organic HAP emissions shall be calculated using Equation 10 of this section, where Tis the temperature 50 K below the boiling point.

(B) For the interval from the temperature 50 K below the boiling point to the final temperature, organic HAP emissions shall be calculated as the summation of emissions for each 5 K increment, where the emissions for each increment shall be calculated using Equation 10 of this section.
