
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1415 Monitoring requirements.
####### General requirements.

(a)Each owner or operator of an emission point located at an affected source that uses a control device to comply with the requirements of this subpart and has one or more parameter monitoring level requirement specified under this subpart, shall install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (b) of this section in order to demonstrate continued compliance with the provisions of this subpart. All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.

(1) This monitoring equipment shall be in operation at all times when organic HAP emissions that are required to be controlled as part of complying with the emission limits specified in §§ 63.1404, 63.1405, 63.1406, 63.1407, and 63.1408 are vented to the control device.

(2) For control devices controlling less than 1 ton per year of uncontrolled organic HAP emissions, monitoring shall consist of a daily verification that the control device is operating properly. If the control device is used to control batch process vents alone or in combination with other emission points, the verification may be on a per batch cycle basis. This verification shall include, but not be limited to, a daily or per batch demonstration that the control device is working as designed. The procedure for this demonstration shall be submitted for review and approval as part of the Precompliance Report, as required by § 63.1417(d)(10).

(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow a monitoring parameter excursion caused by an activity that violates other applicable provisions of subpart A, F, or G of this part.
