
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Monitoring records.

(c)Owners or operators required to comply with ยง 63.1415 and, therefore, required to keep continuous records shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall record either each measured data value or average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) average instead of all measured values. Owners or operators of batch process vents shall record each measured data value; if values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be recorded instead of all measured values.

(2) Daily average, batch cycle daily average, or block average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section. The option of conducting parameter monitoring for batch process vents on a batch cycle daily average basis or a block average basis is described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
