
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### 3

(i) The daily average value, batch cycle daily average, or block average shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values recorded during the operating day, or batch cycle, as appropriate, except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section. For batch process vents, only parameter values recorded during those batch emission episodes, or portions thereof, in the batch cycle that the owner or operator has selected to control in order to comply shall be used to calculate the average. The calculated average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous for daily average values or batch cycle daily average values. The calculated average shall cover the entire period of the batch cycle for block average values. As specified in § 63.1413(a)(4)(i)(C)(), the owner or operator shall provide the information needed to calculate batch cycle daily averages for operating days that include partial batch cycles.

(ii) The operating day shall be the period the owner or operator specifies in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status for purposes of determining daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters. The block shall be the entire period of the batch cycle, as specified by the owner or operator in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status for purposes of determining block average values of monitored parameters.

(3) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day or block are above the minimum level or below the maximum level established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum level or below the maximum level rather than calculating and recording a daily average, or block average, for that operating day. For these operating days or blocks, the records required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall also be retained for 5 years.

(4) Monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or control device or recovery device or control technology operation when monitors are not operating:

(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; and

(ii) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(5) The owner or operator who has received approval to monitor different parameters, under § 63.1417(j) as allowed under § 63.1415(e), than those specified for storage vessels, continuous process vents, or batch process vents shall retain for a period of 5 years each record specified in their approved Alternative Monitoring Parameters request.

(6) The owner or operator who has received approval to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping provisions as specified in § 63.1417(k) shall retain for a period of 5 years each record specified in their approved Alternative Continuous Monitoring request.
