
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Batch process vent records,Compliance demonstration records.

(d)-(1)Each owner or operator of a batch process vent complying with § 63.1406 or § 63.1407 shall keep the following records, as applicable, readily accessible.

(i) If a batch process vent is seeking to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standard specified in § 63.1406(b) or § 63.1407(b), results of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1413(f).

(ii) If a batch process vent is seeking to demonstrate compliance with the percent reduction requirements of § 63.1406(a)(1)(ii) or § 63.1407(a)(2)(ii), records documenting the batch cycle percent reduction or overall percent reduction, as appropriate, as specified in § 63.1413(e)(1)(iii).

(iii) When using a flare to comply with § 63.1406(a)(1)(i) or § 63.1407(a)(2)(i):

(A) The flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted or non-assisted);

(B) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.1413(g); and

(C) Periods when all pilot flames were absent during the compliance determination required by § 63.1413(g).

(iv) The following information when using a control device or control technology, other than a flare, to achieve compliance with the percent reduction requirement of § 63.1406(a)(1)(ii) or § 63.1407(a)(2)(ii):

(A) For an incinerator, non-combustion control device, or other control technology, the percent reduction of organic HAP achieved for emissions vented to the control device or control technology, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1413(e)(1);

(B) For a boiler or process heater, a description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater; and

(C) For a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 megawatts and where the vent stream is not introduced with the primary fuel or used as the primary fuel, the percent reduction of organic HAP achieved for emissions vented to the control device, as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.1413(e)(1).

(v) If a batch process vent is seeking to demonstrate compliance with the mass emission limits specified in § 63.1406(a)(1)(iii) or (a)(2)(iii) or specified in § 63.1407(b)(2), the following information:

(A) Results of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1413(e)(2).

(B) The organic HAP emissions from the batch process vent associated with each single type of batch cycle (E) determined as specified in § 63.1413(e)(2).

(C) The site-specific emission limit required by § 63.1413(e)(2), as appropriate.

(vi) If an owner or operator designates a condenser sometimes operated as a process condenser as a control device, comply with either paragraph (d)(1)(vi)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) Retain information, data, analyses to document inprocess recycling of the material recovered when the condenser is operating as a control device.

(B) When requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that material recovered by the condenser operating as a control device is reused in a manner meeting the definition of inprocess recycling.
