
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Establishment of parameter monitoring level records.

(2)For each parameter monitored according to § 63.1415(b) and Table 3 of this subpart, or for alternate parameters and/or parameters for alternate control devices or control technologies monitored according to § 63.1417(j) as allowed under § 63.1415(e), maintain documentation showing the establishment of the level that indicates proper operation of the control device or control technology as required by § 63.1415(c) for parameters specified in § 63.1415(b) and as required by § 63.1417(j) for alternate parameters. An owner or operator may choose to monitor operating parameters for batch process vents on a batch cycle daily average basis or on a block average basis. The batch cycle daily average is based on parameter monitoring accomplished during the operating day (i.e., a 24-hour basis). The block average is based on the parameter monitoring accomplished during a single batch cycle. As defined in § 63.1402, the block shall be the period of time equal to a single batch cycle. Monitored parameter documentation shall include the following:

(i) Parameter monitoring data used to establish the level.

(ii) Identification that the parameter monitoring level is associated with a batch cycle daily average or a block average.

(iii) A definition of the batch cycle or block, as appropriate.
