
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1415 Monitoring requirements.
####### Monitoring of bypass lines.

(d)Owners or operators using a vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert emissions away from a control device or control technology used to comply with the provisions of this subpart shall comply with either paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. Equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief valves needed for safety purposes are not subject to this paragraph.

(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once every 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in ยง 63.1416(d)(3). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert emissions away from the control device or control technology and to the atmosphere; or

(2) Secure the bypass line damper or valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the damper or valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and emissions are not diverted through the bypass line. Records shall be generated as specified in ยง 63.1416(d)(3).
