
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### ยง 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Data retention.

(a)Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, each owner or operator of an affected source shall keep copies of all applicable records and reports required by this subpart for at least 5 years, as specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, with the exception listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) All applicable records shall be maintained in such a manner that they can be readily accessed. The most recent 6 months of records shall be retained on site or shall be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provides access within 2 hours after a request. The remaining 4 and one-half years of records may be retained offsite. Records may be maintained in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, on paper, microfilm, computer, floppy disk, CD-ROM, optical disc, magnetic tape, or microfiche.

(2) If an owner or operator submits copies of reports to the appropriate EPA Regional Office, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of reports. If the EPA Regional Office has waived the requirement of ยง 63.10(a)(4)(ii) for submittal of copies of reports, the owner or operator is not required to maintain copies of those reports.
