
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Aggregate batch vent stream records,Compliance demonstration records.

(e)-(1)Each owner or operator of an aggregate batch vent stream complying with § 63.1408(a)(1) or (2) shall keep the following records, as applicable, readily accessible:

(i) If an aggregate batch vent stream is in compliance with the percent reduction requirements of § 63.1408(a)(1)(ii) or (a)(2)(ii), owners or operators shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements for continuous process vents specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS.

(ii) If an aggregate batch vent stream is in compliance with the alternative standard specified in § 63.1408(b), results of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1413(f).

(iii) When using a flare to comply with § 63.1408(a)(1)(i) or (a)(2)(i):

(A) The flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted or non-assisted).

(B) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.1413(g).

(C) Periods when all pilot flames were absent during the compliance determination required by § 63.1413(g).

(iv) If an aggregate batch vent stream is seeking to comply with the mass emission limits specified in § 63.1408(b)(2), results of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1413(e)(2). In addition, for each batch process vent, the emissions associated with each single type of batch cycle (E), determined as specified in § 63.1413(e)(2), shall be recorded.
