
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### 2

() For flares, the records specified in Table 4 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.

(B) Records of the batch cycle daily average value or block average value of each continuously monitored parameter, as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) Each owner or operator of a batch process vent that uses a control device or control technology to comply with § 63.1406 or § 63.1407 shall keep the following records, as applicable, readily accessible:

(A) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator for bypass lines specified in § 63.1415(d) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour. Also, records of the time and duration periods when the vent is diverted from the control device or control technology or the flow indicator specified in § 63.1415(d) is not operating.

(B) Where a seal or closure mechanism is used to comply with § 63.1415(d), hourly records of whether a diversion was detected at any time are not required. The owner or operator shall record whether the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms has been done and shall record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line damper or valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.

(C) Records specifying the times and duration of periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments. In addition, records specifying any other periods of process or control device operation or control technology operation when monitors are not operating.

(iii) Each owner or operator of a batch process vent seeking to demonstrate compliance with the alternative standard, as specified in § 63.1406(b) or § 63.1407(b), shall keep the records of continuous emissions monitoring described in § 63.1416(c).

(iv) Each owner or operator of a batch process vent seeking to demonstrate compliance with the mass emission limits, specified in § 63.1406(a)(1)(iii) or (a)(2)(iii), shall keep the following records, as applicable, readily accessible.

(A) The cumulative average monthly emission rate or the 12-month rolling average monthly emission rate, as appropriate.

(B) If there is a deviation from the mass emission limit, as specified in § 63.1413(i), the individual monthly emission rate data points making up the cumulative average monthly emission rate or the 12-month rolling average monthly emission rate, as appropriate.

(C) If it becomes necessary to redetermine (E) for a reactor batch process vent, as specified in § 63.1413(e)(2), the new value(s) for (E).

(D) If an owner or operator is demonstrating compliance using the procedures in § 63.1413(e)(2), the monthly value of the site-specific emission limit developed under § 63.1413(e)(2).
