
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1417 Reporting requirements.
####### Precompliance Report.

(d)Owners or operators of affected sources requesting an extension for compliance; requesting approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, or alternative controls; requesting approval to use engineering assessment to estimate organic HAP emissions from a batch emissions episode as described in § 63.1414(d)(6)(i)(C); wishing to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1413(a)(4)(ii); establishing parameter monitoring levels based on a design evaluation as specified in § 63.1413(a)(3); or following the procedures in § 63.1413(e)(2); or following the procedures in § 63.1413(h)(3), shall submit a Precompliance Report according to the schedule described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The Precompliance Report shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2) through (11) of this section, as appropriate.

(1) The Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 12 months prior to the compliance date. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved. For new affected sources, the Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by § 63.5(d), as specified on Table 1 of this subpart. Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (d)(11) of this section.

(2) A request for an extension for compliance, as specified in § 63.1401(d), may be submitted in the Precompliance Report. The request for a compliance extension will include the data outlined in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A), (B), and (D), as required in § 63.1401(d)(1).

(3) The alternative monitoring parameter information required in paragraph (j) of this section shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of an affected source seeks to comply through the use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in this subpart or seeks to comply by monitoring a different parameter than those specified in this subpart.

(4) If the affected source seeks to comply using alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (k) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information requested in paragraph (d)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section in the Precompliance Report:

(i) The owner or operator shall submit notification of the intent to use the provisions specified in paragraph (k) of this section; or

(ii) The owner or operator shall submit a request for approval to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping provisions as specified in paragraph (k) of this section.

(5) The owner or operator shall report the intent to use alternative controls to comply with the provisions of this subpart in the Precompliance Report. The Administrator may deem the alternative controls to be equivalent to the controls required by the standard under the procedures outlined in § 63.6(g).

(6) If a request for approval to use engineering assessment to estimate organic HAP emissions from a batch emissions episode, as specified in § 63.1414(d)(6)(i)(C), is being made, the information required by § 63.1414(d)(6)(iii)(B) shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report.

(7) If an owner or operator elects to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1413(a)(4)(ii), or will be establishing parameter monitoring levels based on a design evaluation as specified in § 63.1413(a)(3), the following information shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report:

(i) Identification of which procedures (i.e., § 63.1413(a)(1)(i) or (ii)) are to be used; and

(ii) A description of how the parameter monitoring level is to be established. If the procedures in § 63.1413(a)(4)(ii) are to be used, a description of how performance test data will be used shall be included.

(8) If an owner or operator is complying with the mass emission limit specified in § 63.1405(b)(2)(i), the sample of production records specified in § 63.1413(h)(3) shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report.

(9) If an owner or operator is complying with the mass emission limit specified in § 63.1406(a)(1)(iii) or (a)(2)(iii), § 63.1407(b)(2), or § 63.1408(b)(2), the sample of production records specified in § 63.1413(e)(2) shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report.

(10) The procedure for a control device controlling less than 1 ton per year of uncontrolled organic HAP emissions shall be submitted, as specified in § 63.1415(a)(2). Such a procedure shall meet the requirements specified in § 63.1415(a)(2).

(11) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (d)(11)(i) or (ii) of this section. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in a supplement to the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved.

(i) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to clarify or modify information previously submitted.

(ii) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, as specified in paragraph (j) of this section; to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, as specified in paragraph (k) of this section; to use alternative controls, as specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section; to use engineering assessment to estimate organic HAP emissions from a batch emissions episode, as specified in paragraph (d)(6) of this section; or to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1413(a)(4)(ii) or (a)(3), as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section.
