
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Other records or documentation.

(g)(1) For continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart, owners or operators shall keep records documenting the completion of calibration checks and records documenting the maintenance of continuous monitoring systems that are specified in the manufacturer's instructions or that are specified in other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected source granted a waiver under § 63.10(f) shall maintain any information demonstrating whether an affected source is meeting the requirements for a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

(3) Owners or operators using the exemption from the equipment leak provisions provided by § 63.1400(f) shall comply with either paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall retain information, data, and analysis used to document the basis for using the exemption provided by § 63.1400(f). Such information, data, and analysis shall be retained for the 12-month period preceding December 14, 1998 and for each 12-month period the affected source is in operation and using the exemption provided by § 63.1400(f). The beginning of each 12-month period shall be the anniversary of December 14, 1998.

(ii) When requested by the Administrator, the owner or operator shall demonstrate that actual annual production is equal to or less than 800 megagrams per year of amino/phenolic resin for the 12-month period preceding December 14, 1998, and for each 12-month period the affected source has been in operation and using the exemption provided by § 63.1400(f). The beginning of each 12-month period shall be the anniversary of December 14, 1998.

(4) The owner or operator of a heat exchange system located at an affected source shall retain the following records:

(i) Monitoring data required by § 63.1409 indicating a leak and the date when the leak was detected, and if demonstrated not to be a leak, the basis for that determination.

(ii) Records of any leaks detected by procedures subject to § 63.1409(c)(2) and the date the leak was detected.

(iii) The dates of efforts to repair leaks.

(iv) The method or procedure used to confirm repair of a leak and the date repair was confirmed.

(5) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.

(i) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices that vent to a fuel gas system, process, drain system, or closed-vent system and control device, under the provisions in § 63.1411(d).

(ii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in § 63.1411(a).

(iii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, under the provisions in § 63.1411(b)(2).

(iv) The dates and results of the monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in § 63.1411(a) and (b). The results shall include:

(A) The background level measured during each compliance test.

(B) The maximum instrument reading measured at each piece of equipment during each compliance test.

(v) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1411(c), keep records of each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:

(A) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.

(B) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.

(6) An owner or operator shall record, on a semiannual basis, the information specified in paragraphs (g)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, for those planned routine maintenance operations that would require the control device not to meet the requirements of § 63.1404(a) or (b) of this subpart.

(i) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.

(ii) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description shall include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during these 6 months that the control device did not meet the requirement of § 63.1404 (a) or (b) of this subpart, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance.

(iii) For each storage vessel for which planned routine maintenance was performed during the previous 6 months, record the height of the liquid in the storage vessel at the time the control device is bypassed to conduct the planned routine maintenance and at the time the control device is placed back in service after completing the routine maintenance. These records shall include the date and time the liquid height was measured.
