
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1417 Reporting requirements.
####### Periodic Reports.

(f)Except as specified in paragraph (f)(12) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraph (f)(2) of this section or containing the information in paragraphs (f)(3) through (11) and (13) through (16) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 days after the end of each 180 day period. In addition, for equipment leaks subject to § 63.1410, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU, and for heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1409, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.1409. Section 63.1415 shall govern the use of monitoring data to determine compliance for emissions points required to apply controls by the provisions of this subpart.

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(12) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraph (f)(2) of this section or containing the information in paragraphs (f)(3) through (11) and (13) through (16) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 days after the end of each 180 day period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due. Subsequent reports shall cover each preceding 6-month period.

(2) If none of the compliance exceptions specified in paragraphs (f)(3) through (11) and (13) through (16) of this section occurred during the 6-month period, the Periodic Report required by paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall be a statement that the affected source was in compliance for the preceding 6-month period and no activities specified in paragraphs (f)(3) through (11) and (13) through (16) of this section occurred during the preceding 6-month period.

(3) For an owner or operator of an affected source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.1404 through 63.1409 for any emission point, Periodic Reports shall include:

(i) All information specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW and subpart SS for storage vessels; 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS for continuous process vents required to comply with subpart SS; § 63.1416(d)(3)(ii) for batch process vents; and § 63.1416(e) for aggregate batch vent stream.

(ii) The daily average values, batch cycle daily average values, or block average values of monitored parameters for deviations, as specified in § 63.1413(i), of operating parameters. In addition, the periods and duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified.

(4) Notification if one or more emission point(s) or one or more APPU is added to an affected source. The owner or operator shall submit the following information:

(i) A description of the addition to the affected source;

(ii) Notification of applicability status (i.e., does the emission point require control) of the additional emission point, if appropriate, or notification of all emission points in the added APPU.

(5) If there is a deviation from the mass emission limit specified in § 63.1406(a)(1)(iii) or (a)(2)(iii), § 63.1407(b)(2), or § 63.1408(b)(2), the following information, as appropriate, shall be included:

(i) The cumulative average monthly emission rate or the 12-month rolling average monthly emission rate, as appropriate.

(ii) The individual monthly emission rate data points making up the cumulative average monthly emission rate or the 12-month rolling average monthly emission rate, as appropriate.

(iii) If an owner or operator is demonstrating compliance using the procedures in § 63.1413(e)(2)(ii), the monthly value of the site-specific emission limit.

(6) If any performance tests are reported in a Periodic Report, the following information shall be included:

(i) One complete test report shall be submitted for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. A complete test report shall contain the information specified in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, results and any other information required shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(7) The Periodic Report shall include the results for each change made to a primary product determination for amino/phenolic resins made under § 63.1400(g).

(8) The Periodic Report shall include the results for each change made to a predominant use determination for a storage vessel belonging to an affected source subject to this subpart that is made under § 63.1400(h)(6).

(9) If an owner or operator invokes the delay of repair provisions for a heat exchange system, the following information shall be submitted, as appropriate. If the leak remains unrepaired, the information shall also be submitted in each subsequent periodic report until repair of the leak is reported.

(i) The presence of the leak and the date that the leak was detected.

(ii) Whether or not the leak has been repaired. If the leak is repaired, the date the leak was successfully repaired. If the leak remains unrepaired, the expected date of repair.

(iii) The reason(s) for delay of repair. If delay of repair is invoked due to the reasons described in § 63.1409(e)(2), documentation of emissions estimates shall be included.

(10) Notification that the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 63.1416(h), Reduced Recordkeeping Program.

(11) Notification that the owner or operator has elected to not retain the daily average, batch cycle daily average, or block average values, as appropriate, as specified in § 63.1416(h)(2)(i).

(12) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for particular emission points as specified in paragraphs (f)(12)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for a period of 1 year for an emission point if the Administrator requests the owner or operator to submit quarterly reports for the emission point.

(ii) The quarterly reports shall include all information specified in paragraphs (f)(3) through (11) and (13) through (16) of this section applicable to the emission point for which quarterly reporting is required under paragraph (f)(12)(i) of this section. Information applicable to other emission points within the affected source shall be submitted in the semiannual reports required under paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(iii) Quarterly reports shall be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each quarter.

(iv) After quarterly reports have been submitted for an emission point for 1 year, the owner or operator may return to semiannual reporting for the emission point unless the Administrator requests the owner or operator to continue to submit quarterly reports.

(13) For pressure relief devices, Periodic Reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(13)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1411, report confirmation that all monitoring to show compliance was conducted within the reporting period.

(ii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.1411(b), report any instrument reading of 500 ppm above background or greater, more than 5 days after the relief device returns to organic HAP gas or vapor service after a pressure release.

(iii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1411(c), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:

(A) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.

(B) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the method used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.

(14) If there is a deviation from the mass emission limit specified in § 63.1405(b)(2)(i), the report shall include the daily average emission rate calculated for each operating day for which a deviation occurred.

(15) If there is a deviation from the emission rate limit specified in § 63.1405(b)(2)(ii) or (iii), the report shall include the following information for each operating day for which a deviation occurred:

(i) The calculated average hourly emission rate.

(ii) The individual hourly emission rate data points making up the average hourly emission rate.

(16) For periods of storage vessel routine maintenance in which a control device is bypassed, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 63.1416(g)(6)(i) through (iii) of this subpart.
