
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1417 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of Compliance Status.

(e)For existing and new affected sources, a Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.1401. For equipment leaks, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information specified in 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU. For storage vessels, continuous process vents, batch process vents, and aggregate batch vent streams, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section. For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1411(c), the owner or operator shall also submit the information listed in paragraph (e)(10) of this section in a supplement to the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.

(1) The results of any emission point applicability determinations, performance tests, design evaluations, inspections, continuous monitoring system performance evaluations, any other information used to demonstrate compliance, and any other information, as appropriate, required to be included in the Notification of Compliance Status under 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW and subpart SS, as referred to in § 63.1404 for storage vessels; under 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, as referred to in § 63.1405 for continuous process vents; under § 63.1416(f)(1) through (3), (f)(5)(i) and (ii), and (f)(6)(i) and (ii) for continuous process vents; under § 63.1416(d)(1) for batch process vents; and under § 63.1416(e)(1) for aggregate batch vent streams. In addition, each owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For performance tests, applicability determinations, and estimates of organic HAP emissions that are based on measurements, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report, as described in paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other required information shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(ii) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(2) For each monitored parameter for which a maximum or minimum level is required to be established, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, unless this information has been established and provided in the operating permit.

(i) The required information shall include the specific maximum or minimum level of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.

(ii) The required information shall include the rationale for the specific maximum or minimum level for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the level and a description of why the level indicates proper operation of the control device or control technology.

(iii) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating day, as specified in § 63.1416(c)(2)(ii), for purposes of determining daily average values or batch cycle daily average values of monitored parameters. The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's block(s), as specified in § 63.1416(c)(2)(ii), for purposes of determining block average values of monitored parameters.

(iv) For batch process vents, the required information shall include a definition of each batch cycle that requires the control of one or more batch emission episodes during the cycle, as specified in §§ 63.1413(e)(1)(iii) and 63.1416(c)(2)(ii).

(3) When the determination of applicability for process units, as made following the procedures in § 63.1400(g), indicates that a process unit is an APPU, an identification of the APPU and a statement indicating that the APPU is an APPU that produces more than one intended product at the same time, as specified in § 63.1400(g)(1), or is a flexible operations process unit as specified in § 63.1400(g)(2) through (4).

(4) [Reserved]

(5) The results for each predominant use determination for storage vessels belonging to an affected source subject to this subpart that is made under § 63.1400(h)(6).

(6) Notification that the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 63.1416(h), Reduced Recordkeeping Program.

(7) Notification that an affected source is exempt from the equipment leak provisions of § 63.1410 according to the provisions of § 63.1400(f), and the affected source's actual annual production of amino/phenolic resins for the 12-month period preceding December 14, 1998.

(8) An owner or operator with a combustion device, recovery device, or recapture device affected by the situation described in § 63.1400(i)(5) shall identify which rule shall be complied with for monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, as allowed under § 63.1400(i)(5).

(9) Data or other information used to demonstrate that an owner or operator may use engineering assessment to estimate emissions for a batch emission episode, as specified in § 63.1414(d)(6)(iii)(A).

(10) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release.
