
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1416 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Process change records.

(4)Each owner or operator of a continuous process vent shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of any process changes that change the control applicability for a continuous process vent. Records are to include any recalculation or measurement of the flow rate, organic HAP concentration, and TRE index value.

(5) If a continuous process vent is seeking to demonstrate compliance with the mass emission limit specified in § 63.1405(b)(2)(i), keep records specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The results of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1413(h)(1)(i).

(ii) Identification of the period of time that represents an operating day.

(iii) The daily organic HAP emissions from the continuous process vent determined as specified in § 63.1413(h)(3).

(6) If a continuous process vent is seeking to demonstrate compliance with the emission rate limits specified in § 63.1405(b)(2)(ii) or (iii), keep records specified in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The results of the initial compliance demonstration specified in § 63.1413(h)(2)(i).

(ii) Identification of the period of time that represents an operating day.

(iii) The average hourly organic HAP emissions from the continuous process vent determined as specified in § 63.1413(h)(4).

(7) When using a flare to comply with § 63.1405(a)(1) or (b)(1), keep the records specified in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (f)(7)(iii) of this section.

(i) The flare design (i.e., steam-assisted, air-assisted or non-assisted);

(ii) All visible emission readings, heat content determinations, flow rate measurements, and exit velocity determinations made during the compliance determination required by § 63.1413(g); and

(iii) Periods when all pilot flames were absent during the compliance determination required by § 63.1413(g).
