
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1417 Reporting requirements.
####### Other reports.

(h)Other reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) For storage vessels, the notifications of inspections required by 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW shall be submitted.

(2) A site-specific test plan shall be submitted no later than 90 days before the planned date for a performance test. Unless the Administrator requests changes to the site-specific test plan within 45 days after its receipt, the site-specific test plan shall be deemed approved. The test plan shall include a description of the planned test and rationale for why the planned performance test will provide adequate and representative results for demonstrating the performance of the control device. If required by § 63.1413(e)(1) or § 63.1414(d)(5), the test plan shall include an emission profile and rationale for why the selected test period is representative.

(3) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intention to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled in order to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present during the test. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.

(4) When the conditions of § 63.1400(g)(7) or the conditions of § 63.1400(g)(8) are met, notification of changes to the primary product for an APPU or process unit shall be submitted. When a notification is made in response to a change in the primary product under § 63.1400(g)(7), rationale for why it is anticipated that no amino/phenolic resins will be produced in the process unit in the future shall be included.

(5) Owners or operators of APPU or emission points (other than equipment leak components subject to § 63.1410) that are added to the affected source under the provisions of § 63.1400(d)(2) or (3) or under the provisions of § 63.5(b)(6) shall submit reports as specified in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (ii) of this section.

(i) Reports shall include:

(A) A description of the process change or addition, as appropriate;

(B) The planned start-up date and the appropriate compliance date; and
