
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions: Manufacture of Amino/Phenolic Resins
###### § 63.1417 Reporting requirements.
####### 3

() All the added or created emission points resulting from a process change.

(ii) If the owner or operator wishes to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring or recordkeeping, alternative controls, engineering assessment to estimate organic HAP emissions from a batch emissions episode, or wishes to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1413(a)(1)(ii) or (ii), a Precompliance Report shall be submitted no later than 180 days prior to the appropriate compliance date.

(6) The information specified in paragraphs (h)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section shall be submitted when a small control device becomes a large control device, as specified in § 63.1413(a)(1)(ii).

(i) Notification that a small control device has become a large control device and the site-specific test plan shall be submitted within 60 days of the date the small control device becomes a large control device. The site-specific test plan shall include the information specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. Approval of the site-specific test plan shall follow paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(ii) Results of the performance test required by § 63.1413(a)(1)(ii) shall be submitted within 150 days of the date the small control device becomes a large control device.

(7) Whenever a continuous process vent becomes subject to control requirements under § 63.1405, as a result of a process change, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 60 days after the performance test or applicability assessment, whichever is sooner. The report may be submitted as part of the next Periodic Report required by paragraph (f) of this section.

(i) The report shall include the following information:

(A) A description of the process change;

(B) The results of the recalculation of the organic HAP concentration, volumetric flow rate, and or TRE index value required under § 63.1412 and recorded under § 63.1416(f).

(C) A statement that the owner or operator will comply with the requirements specified in § 63.1405.

(ii) If a performance test is required as a result of a process change, the owner or operator shall specify that the performance test has become necessary due to a process change. This specification shall be made in the performance test notification to the Administrator, as specified in paragraph (h)(3) of this section.

(iii) If a process change does not result in additional applicable requirements, then the owner or operator shall include a statement documenting this in the next Periodic Report required by paragraph (f) of this section.
