
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1420 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Initial primary product determination.

(1)The owner or operator shall initially determine the primary product of each process unit in accordance with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) If a process unit manufactures only one product, then that product shall represent the primary product of the process unit.

(ii) If a process unit produces more than one intended product at the same time, the primary product shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) The product for which the process unit has the greatest annual design capacity on a mass basis shall represent the primary product of the process unit, or

(B) If a process unit has the same maximum annual design capacity on a mass basis for two or more products and if one of those products is a polyether polyol, then the polyether polyol shall represent the primary product of the process unit.

(iii) If a process unit is designed and operated as a flexible operation unit, the primary product shall be determined as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section based on the anticipated operations for the 5 years following September 4, 1997 for existing process units, or for the first year after the process unit begins production of any product for the new process units. If operations cannot be anticipated sufficiently to allow the determination of the primary product for the specified period, applicability shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(A) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture one product for the greatest operating time over the specified 5-year period for existing process units, or the specified 1-year period for new process units, then that product shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(B) If the flexible operation unit will manufacture multiple products equally based on operating time, then the product with the greatest expected production on a mass basis over the specified 5-year period for existing process units, or the specified 1-year period for new process units shall represent the primary product of the flexible operation unit.

(iv) If, according to paragraph (e)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, the primary product of a process unit is a polyether polyol, then that process unit shall be designated as a PMPU. If the plant site is a major source, that PMPU and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, is either an affected source or part of an affected source comprised of one or more other PMPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, and subject to this subpart. If the primary product of a process unit is not a polyether polyol, then that process unit is not a PMPU.
