
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1420 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Emission points included in the affected source but not subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(c)The affected source includes the emission points listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section, but these emission points are not subject to the requirements of this subpart or the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A.

(1) Components and equipment that do not contain organic HAP or that contain organic HAP as impurities only and are located at a PMPU that is part of an affected source.

(2) Stormwater managed in segregated sewers.

(3) Water from fire-fighting and deluge systems in segregated sewers.

(4) Spills.

(5) Water from safety showers.

(6) Water from testing of deluge systems.

(7) Water from testing of firefighting systems.

(8) Vessels that store and/or handle material that contains no organic HAP or organic HAP as impurities only.

(9) Equipment that operates in organic HAP service for less than 300 hours during the calendar year.

(10) Loading racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that only transfer liquids containing HAP as impurities.

(11) Loading racks, loading arms, or loading hoses that vapor balance during all loading operations.

(12) Utility fluids, such as heat transfer fluids.
