
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1420 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### PMPUs without organic HAP.

(b)The owner or operator of a PMPU that is part of an affected source, as defined in paragraph (a) of this section, but that does not use or manufacture any organic HAP during the production of one or more products is only subject to the provisions of this subpart as specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable. Products or raw material(s) containing organic HAP as impurities only are not considered organic HAP for the purposes of this paragraph.

(1) If an organic HAP is not used or manufactured in the production of polyether polyols, the PMPU is not subject to any provisions of this subpart, except that the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to comply with the provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subpart A (the General Provisions) for that PMPU.

(i) Retain information, data, and analyses used to document the basis for the determination that the PMPU does not use or manufacture any organic HAP. Types of information that could document this determination include, but are not limited to, records of chemicals purchased for the process, analyses of process stream composition, engineering calculations, or process knowledge.

(ii) When requested by the Administrator, demonstrate that the PMPU does not use or manufacture any organic HAP.

(2) If an organic HAP is used or manufactured in the production of polyether polyols, but an organic HAP is not used in the production of one or more products that are not polyether polyols, the PMPU is not subject to any provision of this subpart other than paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section during the production of the non-polyether polyol products that do not use or manufacture any organic HAP.
