
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1420 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Definition of affected source.

(a)The provisions of this subpart apply to each affected source. Affected sources are described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) An affected source is either an existing affected source or a new affected source. Existing affected source is defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and new affected source is defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(2) An existing affected source is defined as the group of one or more polyether polyol manufacturing process units (PMPUs) and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that is not part of a new affected source, as defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and that is located at a plant site that is a major source.

(3) A new affected source is defined as a source that meets the criteria of paragraph (a)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section. The situation described in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section is distinct from those situations described in paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(i) At a site without organic HAP emission points before September 4, 1997 (i.e., a "greenfield" site), the group of one or more PMPUs and associated equipment, as listed in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, that is part of a major source, and on which construction for the PMPU(s) commenced after September 4, 1997;

(ii) The group of one or more PMPUs meeting the criteria in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section; or

(iii) A reconstructed affected source meeting the criteria in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section.

(4) The affected source also includes the emission points and components specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section that are associated with a PMPU (or a group of PMPUs) making up an affected source, as defined in ยง 63.1423.

(i) Each waste management unit.

(ii) Maintenance wastewater.

(iii) Each heat exchange system.

(iv) Components required by or utilized as a method of compliance with this subpart, which may include control techniques and recovery devices.

(v) Product finishing operation.

(vi) Each feed or catalyst operation.
