
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1420 Applicability and designation of affected sources.
####### Adding emission points or making process changes to existing affected sources.

(2)The provisions of paragraphs (g)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section apply to the owner or operator that adds emission points or makes process changes to an existing affected source.

(i) If any components are replaced at an existing affected source such that the criteria specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section are met, the entire affected source shall be a new affected source and shall comply with the requirements for a new affected source upon initial start-up or by June 1, 1999, whichever is later.

(A) The replacement of components meets the definition of reconstruction in § 63.1423(b). For purposes of determining whether the fixed capital cost of the new components exceeds 50 percent of the fixed capital cost that would be required to construct an entire affected source, the equivalent capital cost shall be the entire potentially affected source; and

(B) Such reconstruction commenced after September 4, 1997.

(ii) If any components are replaced at an existing affected source such that the criteria specified in paragraphs (g)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section are not met and that replacement of components creates one or more emission points (i.e., either newly created Group 1 emission points or emission points that change from Group 2 to Group 1) or causes any other emission point to be added (i.e., Group 2 emission points, heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1435, or equipment leak components subject § 63.1434), the resulting emission point(s) shall be subject to the applicable requirements for an existing affected source. The resulting emission point(s) shall be in compliance upon initial start-up or by the appropriate compliance date specified in § 63.1422 (i.e., December 1, 1999 for most equipment leak components subject to § 63.1434, and June 1, 2002 for emission points other than equipment leaks), whichever is later.

(iii) If an addition or process change (not including a process change that solely replaces components) is made that creates one or more Group 1 emission points (i.e., either newly created Group 1 emission points or emission points that change group status from Group 2 to Group 1) or causes any other emission point to be added (i.e., Group 2 emission points, heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1435, or equipment leak components subject to § 63.1434), the resulting emission point(s) shall be subject to the applicable requirements for an existing affected source. The resulting emission point(s) shall be in compliance by initial start-up or by the appropriate compliance date specified in § 63.1422 (i.e., December 1, 1999 for most equipment leak components subject to § 63.1434, and June 1, 2002 for emission points other than equipment leaks), whichever is later.
