
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1425 Process vent control requirements.
####### Requirements for epoxide emissions.

(b)The owner or operator of an affected source where polyether polyol products are produced using epoxides shall reduce epoxide emissions from process vents from batch unit operations and continuous unit operations within each PMPU in accordance with either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) For new affected sources, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) this section. The owner or operator also has the option of complying with a combination of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. If the owner or operator chooses to comply with a combination of paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, each process vent not controlled in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section shall be part of the group of applicable process vents that shall then comply with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(i) Reduce the total epoxide emissions from the group of applicable process vents by an aggregated 99.9 percent;

(ii) Maintain an outlet concentration of total epoxides or TOC after each combustion, recapture, or recovery device of 20 ppmv or less; or

(iii) Maintain an emission factor of no greater than 4.43 x 10kilogram epoxide emissions per megagram of product (4.43 x 10pounds epoxide emissions per 1,000 pounds of product) for all process vents in the PMPU.

(2) For existing affected sources, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (b)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section. The owner or operator also has the option of complying with a combination of paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section. If the owner or operator chooses to comply with a combination of paragraphs (b)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, each process vent that is not controlled in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section shall be part of the group of applicable process vents that shall then comply with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section. The owner or operator also has the option of complying with a combination of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (iii) of this section.

(i) Reduce the total epoxide emissions from each process vent using a flare;

(ii) Reduce the total epoxide emissions from the group of applicable process vents by an aggregated 98 percent;

(iii) Maintain an outlet concentration of total epoxides or TOC after each combustion, recapture or recovery devices of 20 ppmv or less; or

(iv) Maintain an emission factor of no greater than 1.69 x 10kilogram epoxide emissions per megagram of product (1.69 x 10pounds epoxide emissions per 1,000 pounds of product) for all process vents in the PMPU.
