
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1425 Process vent control requirements.
####### Requirements for process vents at PMPUs that produce polyether polyol products using tetrahydrofuran.

(f)For each process vent in a PMPU that uses tetrahydrofuran (THF) to produce one or more polyether polyol products that is, or is part of, an affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with the HON process vent requirements in §§ 63.113 through 63.118, except as provided for in paragraphs (f)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) When December 31, 1992 is referred to in the HON process vent requirements in § 63.113, it shall be replaced with September 4, 1997, for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When § 63.151(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.152(e), submission of an operating permit application, are referred to in §§ 63.114(c) and 63.117(e), § 63.1439(f), alternative monitoring parameters, and § 63.1439(e)(8), submission of an operating permit application, respectively, shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) When the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.117 and 63.118, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When the definition of excursion in § 63.152(c)(2)(ii)(A) is referred to in § 63.118(f)(2), the definition of excursion in § 63.1438(f) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When § 63.114(e) specifies that an owner or operator shall submit the information required in § 63.152(b) in order to establish the parameter monitoring range, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of § 63.1438 for establishing the parameter monitoring level and shall comply with § 63.1439(e)(5)(ii) or § 63.1439(e)(8) for the purposes of reporting information related to the establishment of the parameter monitoring level, for the purposes of this subpart. Further, the term "level" shall apply whenever the term "range" is used in §§ 63.114, 63.117, and 63.118.

(7) When reports of process changes are required under § 63.118(g), (h), (i), or (j), paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(i) For the purposes of this subpart, whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent to become a Group 1 process vent, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or the information regarding the process change is known to the owner or operator. This report may be included in the next Periodic Report. A description of the process change shall be included in this report.

(ii) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with a TRE greater than 4.0 to become a Group 2 process vent with a TRE less than 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or the information regarding the process change is known to the owner or operator, unless the flow rate is less than 0.005 standard cubic meters per minute. This report may be included in the next Periodic Report. A description of the process change shall be included in this report.

(iii) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate less than 0.005 standard cubic meter per minute (scmm) to become a Group 2 process vent with a flow rate of 0.005 scmm or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or the information regarding the process change is known to the owner or operator, unless the organic HAP concentration is less than 50 ppmv. This report may be included in the next Periodic Report. A description of the process change shall be submitted with the report.

(iv) Whenever a process change, as defined in § 63.115(e), is made that causes a Group 2 process vent with an organic HAP concentration less than 50 parts per million by volume (ppmv) to become a Group 2 process vent with an organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or greater and a TRE index value less than or equal to 4.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report within 180 days after the process change is made or the information regarding the process change is known to the owner or operator, unless the flow rate is less than 0.005 standard cubic meters per minute. This report may be included in the next Periodic Report. A description of the process change shall be submitted with this report.

(8) When § 63.118 refers to § 63.152(f), the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.1439(d) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(9) When §§ 63.115 and 63.116 refer to Table 2 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart F, the owner or operator shall only consider organic HAP as defined in this subpart.

(10) When the provisions of § 63.116(c)(3) and (4) specify that Method 18, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used, Method 18 or Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A may be used for the purposes of this subpart. The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall comply with paragraphs (f)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The organic HAP used as the calibration gas for Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be the single organic HAP representing the largest percent by volume of the emissions.

(ii) The use of Method 25A, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.
