
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1426 Process vent requirements for determining organic HAP concentration, control efficiency, and aggregated organic HAP emission reduction for a PMPU.
####### Testing conditions and calculation of TOC or total organic HAP concentration.

(3)(i) Testing conditions shall be as specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section, as appropriate.

(A) Testing of process vents from continuous unit operations shall be conducted at maximum representative operating conditions, as described in ยง 63.1437(a)(1). Each test shall consist of three l-hour runs. Gas stream volumetric flow rates shall be measured at approximately equal intervals of about 15 minutes during each 1-hour run. The organic HAP concentration (of the HAP of concern) shall be determined from samples collected in an integrated sample over the duration of each l-hour test run, or from grab samples collected simultaneously with the flow rate measurements (at approximately equal intervals of about 15 minutes). If an integrated sample is collected for laboratory analysis, the sampling rate shall be adjusted proportionally to reflect variations in flow rate. For gas streams from continuous unit operations, the organic HAP concentration or control efficiency used to determine compliance shall be the average organic HAP concentration or control efficiency of the three test runs.
