
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1426 Process vent requirements for determining organic HAP concentration, control efficiency, and aggregated organic HAP emission reduction for a PMPU.
####### 5,3

() If a condenser is used to control the process vent stream(s), the worst case emission episode(s) shall represent a period of time in which a process vent from the batch cycle or combination of cycles (if more than one cycle is vented through the same process vent) will require the maximum heat removal capacity, in Btu/hr, to cool the process vent stream to a temperature that, upon calculation of HAP concentration, will yield the required removal efficiency for the entire cycle. The calculation of maximum heat load shall be based on the emission profile described in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(B)() of this section that will allow calculation of sensible and latent heat loads.

(ii) The concentration of either TOC (minus methane or ethane) or total organic HAP (of the HAP of concern) shall be calculated according to paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) The TOC concentration (C) is the sum of the concentrations of the individual components and shall be computed for each run using Equation 2:

(B) The total organic HAP concentration (C) shall be computed according to Equation 2, except that only the organic HAP species shall be summed.

(iii) The concentration of TOC or total organic HAP shall be corrected to 3 percent oxygen if a combustion device is used.

(A) The emission rate correction factor or excess air, integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A shall be used to determine the oxygen concentration (%0). The samples shall be taken during the same time that the TOC (minus methane or ethane) or total organic HAP samples are taken.

(B) The concentration corrected to 3 percent oxygen shall be computed using Equation 3, as follows:
