
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.130 Rule for limiting sulfur in fuels.
######## Are there additional requirements that must be met?

(f)(1) A person subject to this section must:

(i) For fuel oils and liquid fuels, obtain, record, and keep records of the percent sulfur by weight from the vendor for each purchase of fuel. If the vendor is unable to provide this information, then obtain a representative grab sample for each purchase and test the sample using the reference method.

(ii) For gaseous fuels, either obtain, record, and keep records of the sulfur content from the vendor, or continuously monitor the sulfur content of the fuel gas line using a method that meets the requirements of Performance Specification 5, 7, 9, or 15 (as applicable for the sulfur compounds in the gaseous fuel) of appendix B and appendix F of 40 CFR part 60. If only purchased natural gas is used, then keep records showing that the gaseous fuel meets the definition of natural gas in 40 CFR 72.2.

(iii) For coal and solid fuels, either obtain, record, and keep records of the percent sulfur by weight from the vendor for each purchase of coal or solid fuel, or obtain a representative grab sample for each day of operation and test the sample using the reference method. If only wood is used, then keep records showing that only wood was used. The owner or operator of a coal- or solid fuel-fired source may apply to the Regional Administrator for a waiver of thisprovision or for approval of an alternative fuel sampling program.

(2) Records of fuel purchases and fuel sulfur content must be kept for a period of five years from date of purchase and must be made available to the Regional Administrator upon request.

(3) The owner or occupant of a single-family residence, and the owner or manager of a residential building with four or fewer dwelling units, is not subject to the requirement to obtain and record the percent sulfur content from the vendor if the fuel used in an oil, coal, or gas furnace is purchased from a licensed fuel distributor.
