
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1426 Process vent requirements for determining organic HAP concentration, control efficiency, and aggregated organic HAP emission reduction for a PMPU.
####### Test methods.

(4)When testing is conducted to measure emissions from an affected source, the test methods specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section shall be used, as applicable.

(i) For sample and velocity traverses, Method 1 or 1A of appendix A of part 60 shall be used, as appropriate, except that references to particulate matter in Method 1A do not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(ii) The velocity and gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as appropriate.

(iii) The concentration measurements shall be determined using the methods described in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii) (A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Method 18 of appendix A of part 60 may be used to determine the HAP concentration in any control device efficiency determination.

(B) Method 25 of appendix A of part 60 may be used to determine total gaseous nonmethane organic concentration for control efficiency determinations in combustion devices.
