
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### Determination of epoxide concentrations.

(f)The owner or operator shall determine the epoxide concentrations in accordance with the procedures in this paragraph.

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the concentration of epoxide in the reactor liquid using either direct measurement in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, or reaction kinetics in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section. An owner or operator may also request to use an alternative methodology in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall submit a standard operating procedure for obtaining the liquid sample, along with the test method used to determine the epoxide concentration. This information shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report.

(ii) Determine the epoxide concentration in the reactor liquid using Equation 12. [Equation 12]

(iii) If the owner/operator deems that the methods listed in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are not appropriate for the reaction system for a PMPU, then the owner/operator may submit a request for the use of an alternative method.

(2) The owner or operator shall determine the concentration of epoxide in the reactor vapor space using either direct measurement in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, or by engineering estimation in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. An owner or operator may also request to use an alternative methodology in accordance with paragraph (f)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall take two representative samples from a bleed valve off the reactor's process vent. The owner or operator shall determine the total epoxide concentration using 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, Method 18.

(ii) Determine the epoxide concentration in the vapor space using Raoult's Law or another appropriate phase equilibrium equation and the liquid epoxide concentration, determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(iii) If the owner/operator deems that the methods listed in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are not appropriate for the reaction system for a PMPU, then the owner/operator may submit a request for the use of an alternative method.
