
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### Applicability of extended cookout requirements.

(a)Owners or operators of affected sources that produce polyether polyols using epoxides, and that are using ECO as a control technique to reduce epoxide emissions in order to comply with percent emission reduction requirements in § 63.1425(b)(1)(i) or (b)(2)(ii) shall comply with the provisions of this section. The owner or operator that is using ECO in order to comply with the emission factor requirements in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or § 63.1425(b)(2)(iv) shall demonstrate that the specified emission factor is achieved by following the requirements in § 63.1431. If additional control devices are used to further reduce the HAP emissions from a process vent already controlled by ECO, then the owner or operator shall also comply with the testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements associated with the additional control device, as specified in §§ 63.1426, 63.1429, and 63.1430, respectively.

(1) For each product class, the owner or operator shall determine the batch cycle percent epoxide emission reduction for the most difficult to control product in the product class, where the most difficult to control product is the polyether polyol that is manufactured with the slowest pressure decay curve.

(2) The owner or operator may determine the batch cycle percent epoxide emission reduction by directly measuring the concentration of the unreacted epoxide, or by using process knowledge, reaction kinetics, and engineering knowledge, in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(i) If the owner or operator elects to use any method other than direct measurement, the epoxide concentration shall be determined by direct measurement for one product from each product class and compared with the epoxide concentration determined using the selected estimation method, with the exception noted in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section. If the difference between the directly determined epoxide concentration and the calculated epoxide concentration is less than 25 percent, then the selected estimation method will be considered to be an acceptable alternative to direct measurement for that class.

(ii) If uncontrolled epoxide emissions prior to the end of the ECO are less than 10 tons per year (9.1 megagrams per year), the owner or operator is not required to perform the direct measurement required in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. Uncontrolled epoxide emissions prior to the end of the ECO shall be determined by the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.
