
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### Define the end of epoxide feed.

(b)The owner or operator shall define the end of the epoxide feed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) The owner or operator shall determine the concentration of epoxide in the reactor liquid at the point in time when all epoxide has been added to the reactor and prior to any venting. This concentration shall be determined in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.

(2) If the conditions in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section are met, the end of the epoxide feed may be defined by the reactor epoxide partial pressure at the point in time when all epoxide reactants have been added to the reactor. This reactor epoxide partial pressure shall be determined in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (g) of this section.

(i) No epoxide is emitted before the end of the ECO;

(ii) Extended cookout is the only control technique to reduce epoxide emissions; and

(iii) The owner or operator elects to determine the percent epoxide emission reduction for the ECO using reactor epoxide partial pressure in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section.
