
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1426 Process vent requirements for determining organic HAP concentration, control efficiency, and aggregated organic HAP emission reduction for a PMPU.
####### Determination of organic HAP emission reduction for a PMPU.

(e)(1) The owner or operator shall determine the organic HAP emission reduction for process vents in a PMPU that are complying with § 63.1425(b)(1)(i), (b)(2)(ii), (c)(1)(ii), or (d)(2) using Equation 7. The organic HAP emission reduction shall be determined for each group of process vents subject to the same paragraph (i.e., paragraph (b), (c), or (d)) of § 63.1425. For instance, process vents that emit epoxides are subject to paragraph (b) of § 63.1425. Therefore, if the owner or operator of an existing affected source is complying with the 98 percent reduction requirement in § 63.1425(b)(2)(ii), the organic HAP (i.e., epoxide) emission reduction shall be determined for the group of vents in a PMPU that are subject to this paragraph.

(2) The control efficiency, R, shall be assigned as specified below in paragraph (e)(2)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.

(i) If the process vent is controlled using a flare (and the owner or operator has not previously obtained approval to assume a control efficiency greater than 98 percent in accordance with § 63.6(g)) or a combustion device specified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (4), or (5) of this section, and a performance test has not been conducted, the control efficiency shall be assumed to be 98 percent.

(ii) If the process vent is controlled using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device for which a performance test has been conducted in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section, or for which a performance test that meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section has been previously performed, the control efficiency shall be the efficiency determined by the performance test.

(iii) If epoxide emissions from the process vent are controlled using extended cookout, the control efficiency shall be the efficiency determined in accordance with § 63.1427(e).

(iv) If the process vent is controlled using a flare, and the owner or operator has obtained approval to assume a control efficiency greater than 98 percent in accordance with § 63.6(g), the control efficiency shall be the efficiency approved in accordance with § 63.6(g).
