
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### ECO monitoring requirements.

(i)The owner or operator using ECO shall comply with the monitoring requirements of this paragraph to demonstrate continuous compliance with this subpart. Paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section address monitoring of the extended cookout.

(1) To comply with the provisions of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor one of the parameters listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, or may utilize the provision in paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this section.

(i) Time from the end of the epoxide feed;

(ii) The epoxide partial pressure in the closed reactor;

(iii) Direct measurement of epoxide concentration in the reactor liquid at the end of the ECO, when the reactor liquid is still in the reactor, or after the reactor liquid has been transferred to another vessel; or

(iv) An owner or operator may submit a request to the Administrator to monitor a parameter other than the parameters listed in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section, as described in ยง 63.1439(f).

(2) During the determination of the percent epoxide emission reduction in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish, as a level that shall be maintained during periods of operation, one of the parameters in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, or may utilize the procedure in paragraph (i)(2)(iv) of this section, for each product class.

(i) The time from the end of the epoxide feed to the end of the ECO;

(ii) The reactor epoxide partial pressure at the end of the ECO;

(iii) The epoxide concentration in the reactor liquid at the end of the ECO, when the reactor liquid is still in the reactor, or after the reactor liquid has been transferred to another vessel; or

(iv) An owner or operator may submit a request to the Administrator to monitor a parameter other than the parameters listed in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as described in ยง 63.1439(f).

(3) For each batch cycle where ECO is used to reduce epoxide emissions, the owner or operator shall record the value of the monitored parameter at the end of the ECO. This parameter is then compared with the level established in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section to determine if an excursion has occurred. An ECO excursion is defined as one of the situations described in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) When the time from the end of the epoxide feed to the end of the ECO is less than the time established in paragraph (i)(2)(i) of this section;

(ii) When the reactor epoxide partial pressure at the end of the ECO is greater than the partial pressure established in paragraph (i)(2)(ii) of this section;

(iii) When the epoxide concentration in the reactor liquid at the end of the ECO is greater than the epoxide concentration established in paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section;

(iv) When the parameter is not measured and recorded at the end of the ECO; or

(v) When the alternative monitoring parameter is outside the range established under ยง 63.1439(f) for proper operation of the ECO as a control technique.
