
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### New polyether polyol products.

(l)If an owner or operator wishes to utilize ECO as a control option for a polyether polyol not previously assigned to a product class and reported to the Agency in accordance with either paragraph (k)(2)(i)(B), (l)(1)(ii), or (l)(2)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of paragraph (l)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If the operating conditions of the new polyether polyol are consistent with the operating conditions for an existing product class, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall update the list of products for the product class required by paragraph (j)(1)(ii) of this section, and shall record the information in paragraphs (j)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section for the new product.

(ii) Within 180 days after the production of the new polyether polyol, the owner or operator shall submit a report updating the product list previously submitted for the product class. This information may be submitted along with the next Periodic Report.

(2) If the operating conditions of the new polyether polyol do not conform with the operating characteristics of an existing product class, the owner or operator shall establish a new product class and shall comply with provisions of paragraphs (l)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The owner or operator shall establish the batch cycle percent epoxide emission reduction in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section for the product class.

(ii) The owner or operator shall establish the records specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for the product class.

(iii) Within 180 days of the production of the new polyether polyol, the owner or operator shall submit a report containing the information specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
