
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### 3

() At the end of the ECO, determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(B) The percent epoxide reduction for the batch cycle, determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(2) of this section. The records shall also include all the measurements and assumptions used to calculate the percent reduction.

(C) The reactor epoxide partial pressure at the end of the ECO.

(2) The owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) For each batch cycle, the product being produced and the product class to which it belongs.

(ii) For each batch cycle, the owner or operator shall record the value of the parameter monitored in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(iii) If a combustion, recovery, or recapture device is used to reduce emission in conjunction with ECO, the owner or operator shall record the information specified in ยง 63.1430(d) and comply with the monitoring provisions in ยง 63.1429.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) If epoxide emissions occur before the end of the ECO, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the time and duration of all such emission episodes.
