
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### Polyether polyol product changes.

(m)If a change in operation, as defined in paragraph (m)(1) of this section, occurs for a polyether polyol that has been assigned to a product class and reported to the Agency in accordance with paragraph (k)(2)(i)(B), (l)(1)(ii), or (l)(2)(iii) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the provisions of paragraphs (m)(2) through (3) of this section.

(1) A change in operation for a polyether polyol is defined as a change in any one of the parameters listed in paragraphs (m)(1)(i) through (ix) of this section.

(i) A significant change in reaction kinetics;

(ii) Use of a different oxide reactant;

(iii) Use of a different EO/PO ratio;

(iv) A lower reaction temperature;

(v) A lower catalyst feed on a mole/mole fraction OH basis;

(vi) A shorter cookout;

(vii) A lower reactor pressure;

(viii) A different type of reaction, (e.g., a self-catalyzed vs. catalyzed reaction); or

(ix) A marked change in reaction conditions (e.g., a markedly different liquid level).

(2) If the operating conditions of the product after the change in operation remain within the operation conditions of the product class to which the product was assigned, the owner or operator shall update the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section for the product.

(3) If the operating conditions of the product after the change in operation are outside of the operating conditions of the product class to which the product was assigned, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraph (m)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) If the new operating conditions of the polyether polyol are consistent with the operating conditions for another existing product class, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (m)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall update the list of products for the product class that the product is leaving, and for the product class that the product is entering, and shall record the new information in paragraphs (j)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section for the product.

(B) Within 180 days after the change in operating conditions for the polyether polyol product, the owner or operator shall submit a report updating the product lists previously submitted for the product class. This information may be submitted along with the next Periodic Report.

(ii) If the new operating conditions of the polyether polyol product do not conform with the operating characteristics of an existing product class, the owner or operator shall establish a new product class and shall comply with provisions of paragraphs (m)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The owner or operator shall establish the batch cycle percent epoxide emission reduction in accordance with paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section for the product class.

(B) The owner or operator shall establish the records specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section for the product class.

(C) Within 180 days of the change in operating conditions for the polyether polyol, the owner or operator shall submit a report containing the information specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.
