
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### Reporting requirements.

(k)The owner or operator shall comply with the reporting requirements in this paragraph.

(1) The information specified in paragraphs (k)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section shall be provided in the Precompliance Report, as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4).

(i) A standard operating procedure for obtaining the reactor liquid sample and a method that will be used to determine the epoxide concentration in the liquid, in accordance with paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section.

(ii) A request to monitor a parameter other than those specified in paragraph (i)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as provided for in paragraph (i)(1)(iv) of this section.

(2) The information specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section shall be provided in the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.1439(e)(5).

(i) For each product class, the information specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The operating conditions of this product class, as specified in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) A list of all products in the product class.

(C) The percent epoxide emission reduction, determined in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(ii) The parameter for each product class, as determined in accordance with paragraph (i)(2) of this section.

(iii) If a combustion, recovery, or recapture device is used in addition to ECO to reduce emissions, the information specified in § 63.1430(g)(1).

(iv) If epoxide emissions occur before the end of the ECO, a listing of the time and duration of all such emission episodes that occur during the initial demonstration of batch cycle efficiency.

(3) The information specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section shall be provided in the Periodic Report, as specified in § 63.1439(e)(6).

(i) Reports of each batch cycle for which an ECO excursion occurred, as defined in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(ii) Notification of each batch cycle when the time and duration of epoxide emissions before the end of the ECO, recorded in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(v) of this section, exceed the time and duration of the emission episodes during the initial epoxide emission percentage reduction determination, as recorded in paragraph (j)(1)(viii) of this section.

(iii) If a combustion, recovery, or recapture device is used to reduce emissions, the information specified in § 63.1430(h).
