
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1427 Process vent requirements for processes using extended cookout as an epoxide emission reduction technique.
####### Recordkeeping requirements.

(j)(1) The owner or operator shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, for each product class. The owner or operator shall also maintain the records related to the initial determination of the percent epoxide emission reduction specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(iii) through (x) of this section, as applicable, for each product class.

(i) Operating conditions of the product class, including:

(A) Pressure decay curve;

(B) Minimum reaction temperature;

(C) Number of reactive hydrogens in the raw material;

(D) Minimum catalyst concentration;

(E) Ratio of EO/PO at the end of the epoxide feed; and

(F) Reaction conditions, including the size of the reactor or batch.

(ii) A listing of all products in the product class, along with the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, for each product.

(iii) The concentration of epoxide at the end of the epoxide feed, determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(iv) The concentration of epoxide at the onset of the ECO, determined in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section.

(v) The uncontrolled epoxide emissions at the onset of the ECO, determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section. The records shall also include all the background data, measurements, and assumptions used to calculate the uncontrolled epoxide emissions.

(vi) The epoxide emissions at the end of the ECO, determined in accordance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section. The records shall also include all the background data, measurements, and assumptions used to calculate the epoxide emissions.

(vii) The percent epoxide reduction for the batch cycle, determined in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section. The records shall also include all the background data, measurements, and assumptions used to calculate the percent reduction.

(viii) The parameter level, established in accordance with paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(ix) If epoxide emissions occur before the end of the ECO, the owner or operator shall maintain records of the time and duration of all such emission episodes that occur during the initial demonstration of batch cycle efficiency.

(x) If the conditions in paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section are met, the owner or operator is not required to maintain the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(iii) through (iv) of this section, but shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(x)(A), (B), and (C) of this section.

(A) The reactor epoxide partial pressure at the following times:
