
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1428 Process vent requirements for group determination of PMPUs using a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product.
####### Process vents from continuous unit operations.

(h)(1) The owner or operator shall determine the total resource effectiveness (TRE) index value for each process vent from a continuous unit operation that is associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product. To determine the TRE index value, the owner or operator shall conduct a TRE determination and calculate the TRE index value according to the HON process vent group determination procedures in § 63.115(d)(1) or (2) and the TRE equation in § 63.115(d)(3). The TRE index value shall be determined at the location after all applicable control techniques have been applied to reduce epoxide emissions in accordance with paragraph (h)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If the owner or operator uses one or more nonepoxide recovery devices after all control techniques to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be after the last nonepoxide recovery device.

(ii) If the owner or operator does not use a nonepoxide recovery device after a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be at the exit of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device.

(iii) If the owner or operator does not use a nonepoxide recovery device after extended cookout to reduce epoxide emissions, this location shall be at the exit from the continuous unit operation. For the purpose of these determinations, the primary condenser operating as a reflux condenser on a reactor or distillation column shall be considered part of the unit operation.

(2) The owner or operator of a Group 2 continuous process vent shall recalculate the TRE index value as necessary to determine whether the process vent is Group 1 or Group 2, whenever process changes are made that could reasonably be expected to change the process vent to Group 1. Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, increases in production capacity or production rate, changes in feedstock type or catalyst type, or whenever there is replacement, removal, or addition of recovery equipment. For purposes of this paragraph, process changes do not include: process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the range on which the original TRE calculation was based.

(i) The TRE index value shall be recalculated based on measurements of process vent stream flow rate, TOC, and nonepoxide organic HAP concentrations, and heating values as specified in the HON process vent group determination procedures in § 63.115(a), (b), (c), and (d), as applicable, or on best engineering assessment of the effects of the change. Engineering assessments shall meet the specifications in § 63.115(d)(1).

(ii) Where the recalculated TRE index value is less than or equal to 1.0, or, where the TRE index value before the process change was greater than 4.0 and the recalculated TRE index value is less than or equal to 4.0 but greater than 1.0, the owner or operator shall submit a report as specified in the process vent reporting and recordkeeping provisions in § 63.1430(i) or (j), and shall comply with the appropriate provisions in the process vent control requirements in § 63.1425 by the dates specified in § 63.1422 (the section describing compliance dates for sources subject to this subpart).

(iii) Where the recalculated TRE index value is greater than 4.0, the owner or operator is not required to submit a report.
