
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1428 Process vent requirements for group determination of PMPUs using a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product.
####### Process changes affecting Group 2 combinations of process vents in a PMPU that are from batch unit operations.

(g)Whenever process changes, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, are made that affect a Group 2 combination of batch process vents and that could reasonably be expected to change the group status from Group 2 to Group 1, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (g)(2) and (3) of this section.

(1) Examples of process changes include, but are not limited to, increases in production capacity or production rate, changes in feedstock type or catalyst type; or whenever there is replacement, removal, or modification of recovery equipment considered part of the batch unit operation. Any change that results in an increase in the annual nonepoxide organic HAP emissions from the estimate used in the previous group determination constitutes a process change for the purpose of these provisions. Process changes do not include: process upsets; unintentional, temporary process changes; and changes that are within the margin of variation on which the original group determination was based.

(2) For each process affected by a process change, the owner or operator shall redetermine the group status by repeating the procedures specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, as applicable, and determining if the combination of process vents is a Group 1 combination of batch process vents, as defined in ยง 63.1423. Alternatively, engineering assessment, as described in ยง 63.488(b)(6)(i), may be used to determine the effects of the process change.

(3) Based on the results of paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with either paragraph (g)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.
