
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1429 Process vent monitoring requirements.
####### Monitoring equipment requirements.

(a)The owner or operator of a process vent that uses a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to comply with the process vent control requirements in ยง 63.1425(b)(1), (b)(2), (c)(1), (c)(3), or (d) shall install monitoring equipment specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), or (7) of this section, depending on the type of device used. Also, the owner or operator that uses a recovery or recapture device to comply with ยง 63.1425(c)(4) shall install monitoring equipment as specified in paragraph (a)(4), (5), (6), or (7) of this section. All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturers' specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.

(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.

(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the firebox or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the firebox in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(2) Where a flare is used, the following monitoring equipment is required: a device (including but not limited to a thermocouple, ultra-violet beam sensor, or infrared sensor) capable of continuously detecting the presence of a pilot flame.

(3) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts design heat input capacity is used, the following monitoring equipment is required: a temperature monitoring device in the firebox equipped with a continuous recorder. Any boiler or process heater in which all process vent streams are introduced with primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from this requirement.

(4) Where an absorber is used, a scrubbing liquid flow rate meter or a pressure monitoring device is required and should be equipped with a continuous recorder. If an acid or base absorbent is used, a pH monitoring device to monitor scrubber effluent is also required. If two or more absorbers in series are used, a scrubbing liquid flow rate meter, or a pressure monitoring device, equipped with a continuous recorder, is required for each absorber in the series. An owner or operator may submit a request to instead install the scrubbing liquid flow rate meter, or a pressure monitoring device, equipped with a continuous recorder, on only the final absorber in a series, in accordance with the alternative parameter monitoring reporting requirements in ยง 63.1439(f).

(5) Where a condenser is used, a condenser exit temperature (product side) monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder is required.

(6) Where a carbon adsorber is used, an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of + 10 percent or better, capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle, and a carbon bed temperature monitoring device, capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle are required.

(7) As an alternative to paragraphs (a)(4) through (6) of this section, the owner or operator may install an organic monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder.
