
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1429 Process vent monitoring requirements.
####### Monitoring of bypass lines.

(c)The owner or operator of a process vent using a process vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a process vent stream away from the combustion, recovery, or recapture device used to comply with the process vent control requirements in ยง 63.1425(b), (c), or (d) shall comply with paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section. Equipment such as low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, and pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes are not subject to paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Properly install, maintain, and operate a flow indicator that takes a reading at least once at approximately equal intervals of about 15 minutes. Records shall be generated as specified in the process vent reporting and recordkeeping provisions in ยง 63.1430(d)(3). The flow indicator shall be installed at the entrance to any bypass line that could divert emissions away from the combustion, recovery, or recapture device and to the atmosphere; or

(2) Secure the bypass line valve in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. A visual inspection of the seal or closure mechanism shall be performed at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and emissions are not diverted through the bypass line. Records shall be generated as specified in the process vent reporting and recordkeeping provisions in ยง 63.1430(d)(4)(i).
