
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1429 Process vent monitoring requirements.
####### Establishment of parameter monitoring levels.

(d)Parameter monitoring levels for process vents from continuous or batch unit operations using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to comply with the process vent control requirements in § 63.1425(b), (c), or (d) shall be established as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For each parameter monitored under paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, the owner or operator shall establish a level, defined as either a maximum or minimum operating parameter as denoted in Table 7 of this subpart (the table listing the operating parameters for which monitoring levels are required to be established for process vent streams), that indicates that the combustion, recovery, or recapture device is operated in a manner to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart. The level shall be established in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.1438(a) through (d), as applicable. The level may be based upon a prior performance test conducted for determining compliance with a regulation promulgated by the EPA, and the owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test under the process vent requirements for determining organic HAP concentration, control efficiency, and aggregated organic HAP emission reductions in § 63.1426, provided that the prior performance test meets the conditions of § 63.1426(b)(3).

(2) The established level, along with supporting documentation, shall be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status or the operating permit application as required in the Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.1439(e)(5) or in the operating permit application requirements in § 63.1439(e)(8), respectively.

(3) The operating day shall be defined as part of establishing the parameter monitoring level and shall be submitted with the information in paragraph (d)(2) of this section. The definition of operating day shall specify the time(s) at which an operating day begins and ends.
