
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1430 Process vent reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records to demonstrate continuous compliance.

(d)The owner or operator that uses a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to comply with the process vent control requirements in § 63.1425(b), (c), or (d) shall keep the following records readily accessible:

(1) Continuous records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under the process vent monitoring requirements in § 63.1429(a) as applicable, and listed in Table 5 of this subpart, or specified by the Administrator in accordance with the alternative parameter monitoring reporting requirements in § 63.1439(f), as allowed under § 63.1429(b). These records shall be kept as specified under § 63.1439(d), except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For flares, the records specified in Table 5 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of continuous records.

(ii) For carbon adsorbers used for process vents from batch unit operations, the records specified in Table 5 of this subpart shall be maintained in place of daily averages.

(2) Records of the daily average value for process vents from continuous unit operations or batch unit operations of each continuously monitored parameter, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Monitoring data recorded during periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments shall not be included in computing the daily averages. In addition, monitoring data recorded during periods of non-operation of the process (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of organic HAP emissions shall not be included in computing the daily averages.

(ii) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are above the minimum or below the maximum parameter monitoring level established in accordance with the process vent monitoring requirements in § 63.1429(d), the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum or below the maximum level established, rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day.

(3) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator for bypass lines specified under § 63.1429(c)(1) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour. Also, records of the time(s) of all periods when the process vent was diverted from the combustion, recovery, or recapture device, or the flow indicator specified in § 63.1429(c)(1) was not operating.

(4) Where a seal or closure mechanism is used to comply with the process vent monitoring requirements for bypass lines in § 63.1429(c)(2), hourly records of flow are not required. For compliance with § 63.1429(c)(2), the owner or operator shall record whether the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done, and shall record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type configuration has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken.

(5) Records specifying the times and duration of periods of monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high level adjustments. In addition, records specifying any other periods of process or combustion, recovery, or recapture device operation when monitors are not operating.
