
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1430 Process vent reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Records related to the group determination for process vents that are associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product,Process vents from batch unit operations.

(e)-(1)Except as provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section, the owner or operator of an affected source shall maintain the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section for each PMPU that uses a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product in batch unit operations. The records required to be maintained by this paragraph are limited to the information developed and used to make the group determination under the process vent requirements for processes using a nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product in § 63.1428(a) through (e), as appropriate. If an owner or operator did not need to develop certain information (e.g., annual average flow rate) to determine the group status, the owner or operator is not required to develop additional information. The owner or operator may elect Group 1 status for process vents without making a Group 1/Group 2 determination. In such event, none of the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) are required.

(i) A description of, and an emission estimate for, each batch emission episode, and the total emissions associated with one batch cycle for each unique product class made in the PMPU.

(ii) Total annual uncontrolled TOC or nonepoxide organic HAP emissions from the combination of process vents from batch unit operations associated with the use of nonepoxide organic HAP to make or modify the product, as determined in accordance with the process vent requirements for group determinations in § 63.1428(b).

(iii) The annual average flow rate for the combination of process vents from batch unit operations associated with the use of organic HAP to make or modify the product, as determined in accordance with the process vent requirements for group determinations in § 63.1428(d).

(iv) The cutoff flow rate, determined in accordance with the process vent requirements for group determinations in § 63.1428(e).

(v) The results of the PMPU group determination (i.e., whether the combination of process vents is Group 1 or Group 2).

(vi) If the combination of all process vents from batch unit operations associated with the use of an organic HAP to make or modify the product is subject to the Group 1 batch process vent control requirements for nonepoxide HAP emissions from making or modifying the product in § 63.1425((c)(1), none of the records in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section are required.

(vii) If the total annual emissions from the combination of process vents from batch unit operations associated with the use of an organic HAP to make or modify the product are less than 11,800 kg per year, only the records in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section are required.
