
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1430 Process vent reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Periodic Reports.

(h)The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit Periodic Reports of the recorded information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (6) of this section, as appropriate, according to the schedule for submitting Periodic Reports in ยง 63.1439(e)(6)(i).

(1) Reports of daily average values of monitored parameters for all operating days when the daily average values recorded under paragraph (d)(2) of this section were above the maximum, or below the minimum, level established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.

(2) Reports of the duration of periods when monitoring data are not collected for each excursion caused by insufficient monitoring data as defined in ยง 63.1438(f)(1)(iv), (f)(2)(i)(B), or (f)(3)(ii).

(3) Reports of the times and durations of all periods recorded under paragraph (d)(3) of this section when the process vent stream is diverted from the combustion, recovery, or recapture device through a bypass line.

(4) Reports of all periods recorded under paragraph (d)(4) of this section in which the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key to unlock the bypass line valve was checked out.

(5) Reports of the times and durations of all periods recorded under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section in which all pilot flames of a flare were absent.

(6) Reports of all carbon bed regeneration cycles during which the parameters recorded under paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section were above the maximum, or below the minimum, levels established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit.
