
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1433 Wastewater provisions.
####### Process wastewater.

(a)Except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the HON wastewater requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.147 for each process wastewater stream originating at an affected source, with the HON leak inspection requirements in § 63.148, and with the HON requirements in § 63.149 for equipment that is subject to § 63.149, with the differences noted in paragraphs (a)(1) through (20) of this section. Further, the owner or operator of each affected source shall comply with the requirements of § 63.105(a) for maintenance wastewater, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) Owners and operators of affected sources are not required to comply with the HON new source wastewater requirements in § 63.132(b)(1) and § 63.132(d) for the purposes of this subpart. Owners or operators of all new affected sources, as defined in this subpart, shall comply with the HON requirements for existing sources in §§ 63.132 through 63.149, with the exceptions noted in paragraphs (a)(2) through (20) of this section.

(2) The provisions of paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (ii), and (a)(10)(iii) of this section clarify the organic HAP that an owner or operator shall consider when complying with the requirements of §§ 63.132 through 63.149.

(i) Owners and operators are exempt from all requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.149 that pertain solely and exclusively to organic HAP listed on Table 8 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G.

(ii) When the HON requirements in §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to Table 9 compounds, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.1423 and that are listed in Table 9 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.

(iii) When §§ 63.132 through 63.149 refer to compounds in Table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, or compounds in List 1 or List 2 of Table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the owner or operator is only required to consider compounds that meet the definition of organic HAP in § 63.1423 and that are listed on Table 36 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) is referred to in §§ 63.132, 63.133, and 63.137, the General Provisions' alternative nonopacity emission standard provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) When the HON storage vessel requirements contained in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are referred to in §§ 63.132 through 63.148, the HON storage vessel requirements in §§ 63.119 through 63.123 are applicable, with the exception of the differences referred to in the storage vessel requirements in § 63.1432, for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When the HON process wastewater reporting requirements in § 63.146(a) require the submission of a request for approval to monitor alternative parameters according to the procedures specified in § 63.151(f) or (g), the owner or operator requesting to monitor alternative parameters shall follow the procedures specified in § 63.1439(f) for the purposes of this subpart.

(6) When the HON process wastewater recordkeeping requirements in § 63.147(d) require the owner or operator to keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day as specified in the HON recordkeeping provisions in § 63.152(f), the owner or operator shall instead keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter as specified in § 63.1439(d), for the purposes of this subpart.
