
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1431 Process vent annual epoxides emission factor plan requirements.
####### Compliance with the epoxide emission factor limitation through the use of extended cookout in conjunction with one or more combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device.

(e)(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Agency of the intent to use extended cookout in conjunction with one or more combustion, recovery, and/or recapture device to comply with the annual epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv). The owner or operator shall prepare an estimate of the annual epoxide emissions after control. This notification and emission estimate shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4), or in the operating permit application, as allowed under § 63.1439(e)(8).

(2) The owner or operator shall determine the annual epoxide emissions after control. This information shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, as provided in § 63.1439(e)(5).

(3) The owner or operator shall comply with the ECO monitoring provisions in § 63.1427(i).

(4) The owner or operator shall comply with the ECO recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.1427(j) and (k).
