
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1431 Process vent annual epoxides emission factor plan requirements.
####### Compliance with epoxide emission factor limitation using a combustion, recovery, or recapture device.

(c)(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Agency of the intent to use a combustion, recovery, or recapture device to comply with the epoxide emission factor limitation in § 63.1425(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(2)(iv). The owner or operator shall prepare an estimate of the annual epoxide emissions and the actual production rate in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. This notification and emission estimate shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report as specified in § 63.1439(e)(4), or in the operating permit application, as allowed in § 63.1439(e)(8).

(i) Annual uncontrolled epoxide emissions. These emission estimates shall be determined in accordance with the batch process vent group determination procedures in the NESHAP for Group I Polymers and Resins (40 CFR part 63, subpart U, § 63.488(b)) and shall be based on anticipated production.

(ii) A description of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device, along with the expected percent efficiency.

(iii) Annual emissions after the combustion, recovery, or recapture device. The expected annual emissions after control shall be determined using Equation 15.

(iv) The actual annual production rate means the annual mass of polyether polyol product produced from the applicable PMPU. This production rate shall be for the same annual time period as the annual emission estimate as calculated in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator shall conduct a performance test in accordance with § 63.1426(c) to determine the epoxide control efficiency of the combustion, recovery, or recapture device. The owner or operator shall then recalculate the annual epoxide emissions after control using Equation 15, except that the control efficiency, R, shall be the measured control efficiency. This information shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status, as provided in § 63.1439(e)(5).

(3) The owner or operator shall comply with the process vent monitoring provisions in § 63.1429.

(4) The owner or operator shall comply with the process vent recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs § 63.1430(b) through (d), and the process vent reporting requirements in § 63.1430(g)(1) and (h).
