
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1432 Storage vessel provisions.

(a) For each storage vessel located at an affected source, the owner or operator shall comply with the HON storage vessel requirements of §§ 63.119 through 63.123 and the HON leak inspection provisions in § 63.148, with the differences noted in paragraphs (b) through (p) of this section, for the purposes of this subpart.

(b) When the term "storage vessel" is used in the HON storage vessel requirements in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.1423 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(c) When the term "Group 1 storage vessel" is used in the HON storage vessel requirements in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.1423 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) When the term "Group 2 storage vessel" is used in the HON storage vessel requirements in §§ 63.119 through 63.123, the definition of this term in § 63.1423 shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(e) When the HON storage vessel requirements in § 63.119 refer to "December 31, 1992," the phrase "September 4, 1997" shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(f) When the HON storage vessel requirements in § 63.119 refer to "April 22, 1994," the phrase "June 1, 1999," shall apply instead, for the purposes of this subpart.

(g) The owner or operator of an affected source shall comply with this paragraph instead of § 63.120(d)(1)(ii) for the purposes of this subpart. If the combustion, recovery, or recapture device used to comply with § 63.119(e) is also used to comply with any of the requirements found in §§ 63.1425 through 63.1431 and/or § 63.1433, the performance test required in or accepted by §§ 63.1425 through 63.1431 and/or § 63.1433 is acceptable for demonstrating compliance with the HON storage vessel requirements in § 63.119(e), for the purposes of this subpart. The owner or operator will not be required to prepare a design evaluation for the combustion, recovery, or recapture device as described in § 63.120(d)(1)(i), if the performance test meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The performance test demonstrates that the combustion, recovery, or recapture device achieves greater than or equal to the required control efficiency specified in the HON storage vessel requirements in § 63.119(e)(1) or (2), as applicable; and

(2) The performance test is submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1439(e)(5).

(h) When the HON storage vessel requirements in §§ 63.120(d)(3)(i), 63.120(d)(5), and 63.122(g)(2) use the term "range," the term "level" shall apply instead for the purposes of this subpart.

(i) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by the HON storage vessel requirements in § 63.120(d)(2) shall specify for which combustion, recovery, or recapture device the owner or operator has selected to follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.1438. For the combustion, recovery, or recapture device(s) for which the owner or operator has selected not to follow the procedures for continuous monitoring specified in § 63.1438, the monitoring plan shall include a description of the parameter(s) to be monitored to ensure that the combustion, recovery, or recapture device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter(s), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (e.g., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised), as specified in § 63.120(d)(2)(i).

(j) For purposes of this subpart, the monitoring plan required by § 63.122(b) shall be included in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.1439(e)(5).

(k) When the HON Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.152(b) are referred to in §§ 63.120, 63.122, and 63.123, the Notification of Compliance Status requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(5) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(l) When the HON Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.152(c) are referred to in §§ 63.120 and 63.122, the Periodic Report requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(6) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(m) When other reports as required in § 63.152(d) are referred to in § 63.122, the reporting requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(7) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(n) When the HON Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.151(b) are referred to in § 63.119 through § 63.123, the owner or operator shall comply with the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(3), for the purposes of this subpart.

(o) When the determination of equivalence criteria in § 63.102(b) are referred to in the HON storage vessel requirements in § 63.121(a), the General Provisions' alternative nonopacity emission provisions in § 63.6(g) shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(p) The compliance date for storage vessels at affected sources subject to the provisions of this section is specified in § 63.1422.

(q) In addition to the records required by § 63.123, the owner or operator of each storage vessel that is complying with § 63.119(e) and that has an applicable monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.120(d)(2) that does not specify continuous monitoring, shall maintain records of all times when the storage tank is being filled (i.e., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised). These records shall consist of documentation of the time when each filling period begins and ends.
