
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1437 Additional requirements for performance testing.

(a) Performance testing shall be conducted in accordance with § 63.7(a)(1), (a)(3), (d), (e)(2), (e)(4), (g), and (h), with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section and the additions specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator or an applicable subpart. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(1) Performance tests shall be conducted according to the general provisions' performance testing requirements in § 63.7(e)(2), except that for all emission sources except process vents from batch unit operations, performance tests shall be conducted during maximum representative operating conditions for the process achievable during one of the time periods described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, without causing any of the situations described in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section to occur. For process vents from batch unit operations, performance tests shall be conducted either at absolute worst-case conditions or hypothetical worst-case conditions, as defined in § 63.1426(c)(3)(i)(B), that are achievable during one of the time periods described in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, without causing any of the situations described in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section to occur.

(i) The 6-month period that ends 2 months before the Notification of Compliance Status is due, according to § 63.1439(e)(5); or the 6-month period that begins 3 months before the performance test and ends 3 months after the performance test.

(ii) Causing damage to equipment; necessitating that the owner or operator make a product that does not meet an existing specification for sale to a customer; or necessitating that the owner or operator make a product in excess of demand.

(iii) Causing plant or testing personnel to be subject to unsafe conditions. Owners or operators that limit testing based on this paragraph shall maintain documentation that demonstrates the nature of the unsafe conditions and explains measures considered by the owner or operator to overcome these conditions. If requested, this documentation shall be provided to the Administrator.

(2) When the General Provisions' data analysis, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in § 63.7(g) refer to the Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.9(h), the Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.1439(e)(5) shall instead apply, for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) Because the General Provisions' site-specific test plan in § 63.7(c)(3) is not required, the General Provisions' requirement for the Administrator to approve or deny site-specific test plans, in § 63.7(h)(4)(ii), is not applicable for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) The owner or operator of an affected source shall provide the Administrator at least 30 days prior notice of any performance test, except as specified under other subparts, to afford the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected source shall notify the Administrator (or delegated State or local agency) as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date, either by providing at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled test date of the performance test, or by arranging a rescheduled date with the Administrator (or delegated State or local agency) by mutual agreement.

(b) Data shall be reduced in accordance with the EPA approved methods specified in the applicable subpart or, if other test methods are used, the data and methods shall be validated according to the protocol in Method 301, 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this subpart, if an owner or operator of an affected source uses a flare to comply with any of the requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet organic HAP or TOC concentration. If a compliance demonstration has been conducted previously for a flare, using the techniques specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, that compliance demonstration may be used to satisfy the requirements of this paragraph if either no deliberate process changes have been made since the compliance demonstration, or the results of the compliance demonstration reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(1) Conduct a visible emission test using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(4) of the General Provisions;

(2) Determine the net heating value of the gas being combusted, using the techniques specified in § 63.11(b)(6) of the General Provisions; and

(3) Determine the exit velocity using the techniques specified in either § 63.11(b)(7)(i) (and § 63.11(b)(7)(iii), where applicable) or § 63.11(b)(8) of the General Provisions, as appropriate.
