
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1434 Equipment leak provisions.
####### Pressure relief devices routed to a control device, process, or drain system.

(4)If a pressure relief device in organic HAP service is designed and operated to route all pressure releases through a closed vent system to a control device, process, or drain system, the owner or operator is not required to comply with paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) (if applicable) of this section. Both the closed vent system and control device (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.172. The drain system (if applicable) must meet the requirements of § 63.136.

(d) When the HON equipment leak Initial Notification requirements contained in §§ 63.182(a)(1) and 63.182(b) are referred to in 40 CFR part 63, subpart H, the owner or operator shall comply with the Initial Notification requirements contained in § 63.1439(e)(3), for the purposes of this subpart. The Initial Notification shall be submitted no later than June 1, 2000, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, for existing sources.

(e) The HON equipment leak Notification of Compliance Status required by §§ 63.182(a)(2) and 63.182(c) shall be submitted within 150 days (rather than 90 days) of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.1422 for the equipment leak provisions. The Initial Notification shall be submitted no later than June 1, 2000, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, for existing sources.

(f) The Periodic Reports required by §§ 63.182(a)(3) and 63.182(d) may be submitted as part of the Periodic Reports required by § 63.1439(e)(6).

(g) If specific items of equipment, comprising part of a process unit subject to this subpart, are managed by different administrative organizations (e.g., different companies, affiliates, departments, divisions, etc.), those items of equipment may be aggregated with any PMPU within the affected source for all purposes under subpart H, providing there is no delay in achieving the applicable compliance date.

(h) The phrase "the provisions of subparts F, I, or PPP of this part" shall apply instead of the phrase "the provisions of subparts F or I of this part," and instead of the phrase "the provisions of subpart F or I of this part" throughout §§ 63.163 and 63.168, for the purposes of this subpart. In addition, the phrase "subparts F, I, and PPP" shall apply instead of the phrase "subparts F and I" in § 63.174(c)(2)(iii), for the purposes of this subpart.
