
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1438 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### Establishment of parameter monitoring levels.

(a)The owner or operator of a combustion, recovery, or recapture device that has one or more parameter monitoring level requirements specified under this subpart shall establish a maximum or minimum level for each measured parameter. If a performance test is required by this subpart for a combustion, recovery, or recapture device, the owner or operator shall use the procedures in either paragraph (b) or (c) of this section to establish the parameter monitoring level(s). If a performance test is not required by this subpart for a combustion, recovery, or recapture device, the owner or operator may use the procedures in paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section to establish the parameter monitoring levels. When using the procedures specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in ยง 63.1439(e)(4)(viii) for review and approval, as part of the Precompliance Report.

(1) The owner or operator shall operate combustion, recovery, and recapture devices such that the daily average value of monitored parameters remains at or above the minimum established level, or remains at or below the maximum established level, except as otherwise provided in this subpart.

(2) As specified in ยง 63.1439(e)(5)(ii), all established levels, along with their supporting documentation and the definition of an operating day, shall be submitted as part of the Notification of Compliance Status.

(3) Nothing in this section shall be construed to allow a monitoring parameter excursion caused by an activity that violates other applicable provisions of 40 CFR part 63, subparts A, F, G, or H.
