
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1438 Parameter monitoring levels and excursions.
####### Parameter monitoring excursion definitions.

(f)Parameter monitoring excursions are defined in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) With respect to storage vessels (where the applicable monitoring plan specifies continuous monitoring), process vents from continuous unit operations using combustion, recovery, or recapture devices for purposes of compliance, and for process wastewater streams, an excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.

(ii) The period of combustion, recovery, or recapture device operation, with the exception noted in paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section, is 4 hours or greater in an operating day and monitoring data are insufficient, as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section, to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.

(iii) The period of combustion, recovery, or recapture device operation, with the exception noted in paragraph (f)(1)(v) of this section, is less than 4 hours in an operating day and more than 2 of the hours during the period of operation do not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data, as defined in paragraph (f)(1)(iv) of this section.

(iv) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data, as used in paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable due to monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibrated checks, or zero (low-level) and high level adjustments, for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour. For data compression systems approved under ยง 63.1439(g)(3), monitoring data are insufficient to calculate a valid hour of data if there are less than four data measurements made during the hour.

(v) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies, are not considered to be part of the period of combustion, recovery, or recapture device operation, for the purposes of paragraphs (f)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(2) For storage vessels where the applicable monitoring plan does not specify continuous monitoring, an excursion is defined in paragraph (f)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) If the monitoring plan specifies monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (such as every 15 minutes or every hour), either of the cases listed in paragraph (f)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section is considered a single excursion for the combustion device.

(A) When the average value of one or more parameters, averaged over the time during which the storage vessel is being filled (i.e., when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised), is above the maximum level or below the minimum level established for the given parameters.

(B) When monitoring data are insufficient. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available, due to monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, or zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments, for at least 75 percent of the specific intervals at which parameters are to be monitored and recorded, according to the storage vessel's monitoring plan, during which the storage vessel is being filled.

(ii) If the monitoring plan does not specify monitoring a parameter and recording its value at specific intervals (for example, if the relevant operating requirement is to exchange a disposable carbon canister before expiration of its rated service life), the monitoring plan shall define an excursion in terms of the relevant operating requirement.

(3) With respect to process vents from batch unit operations, an excursion means one of the two cases listed in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) When the daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is above the maximum or below the minimum established level for the given parameters.

(ii) When monitoring data are insufficient for an operating day. Monitoring data shall be considered insufficient when measured values are not available, due to monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, or zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments, for at least 75 percent of the 15-minute periods when batch emission episodes selected to be controlled are being vented to the control device during the operating day, using the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Determine the total amount of time during the operating day when batch emission episodes selected to be controlled are being vented to the control device.

(B) Subtract the time during the periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies, from the total amount of time determined above in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, to obtain the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient.

(C) Determine the total number of 15-minute periods in the operating time used to determine if monitoring data are insufficient, as was determined in accordance with paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(B) of this section.

(D) If measured values are not available for at least 75 percent of the total number of 15-minute periods determined in paragraph (f)(3)(ii)(C) of this section, the monitoring data are insufficient for the operating day.

(4) With respect to process vents using ECO to reduce epoxide emissions, an excursion means any of the situations described in ยง 63.1427(i)(3)(i) through (v). For each excursion, the owner or operator shall be deemed out of compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.
