
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Recordkeeping and documentation.

(d)The owner or operator required to keep continuous records shall keep records as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, and except as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. If a monitoring plan for storage vessels pursuant to § 63.1432(i) requires continuous records, the monitoring plan shall specify which provisions, if any, of paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section apply. As described in § 63.1432(i), certain storage vessels are not required to keep continuous records as specified in this paragraph. The owner or operator of such storage vessels shall keep records as specified in the monitoring plan required by § 63.1432(i).

(1) The monitoring system shall measure data values at least once during approximately equal 15-minute intervals.

(2) The owner or operator shall record either each measured data value or block average values for 1 hour or shorter periods calculated from all measured data values during each period. If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the hourly (or shorter period) block average instead of all measured values. The owner or operator of process vents from batch unit operations shall record each measured data value.

(3) Daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (d)(6) and (7) of this section.

(i) The daily average value shall be calculated as the average of all parameter values recorded during the operating day, except as specified in paragraph (d)(7) of this section. The calculated average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous. If intermittent emissions episodes occur resulting in emissions being vented to a combustion, recapture, or recovery device for a period of less than 24 hours in the operating day, the daily average shall be calculated based only on the period when emissions are being vented to the combustion, recapture, or recovery device. For example, if a batch unit operation operates such that emissions are vented to a combustion device for 6 hours, then the daily average is the average of the temperature measurements taken during those 6 hours.

(ii) The operating day shall be the 24-hour period that the owner or operator specifies in the operating permit or the Notification of Compliance Status, for purposes of determining daily average values.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) If all recorded values for a monitored parameter during an operating day are above the minimum level or below the maximum level established in the Notification of Compliance Status or operating permit, the owner or operator may record that all values were above the minimum level or below the maximum level rather than calculating and recording a daily average for that operating day.

(7) Monitoring data recorded during periods identified in paragraphs (d)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section shall not be included in any average computed under this subpart. Records shall be kept of the times and durations of all such periods and any other periods during process or combustion, recovery, or recapture device operation when monitors are not operating.

(i) Monitoring system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero (low-level) and high-level adjustments; or

(ii) Periods of non-operation of the affected source (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(8) For continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart, records documenting the completion of calibration checks, and records documenting the maintenance of continuous monitoring systems that are specified in the manufacturer's instructions or that are specified in other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.

(9) The owner or operator of an affected source granted a waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements under the General Provisions' recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.10(f) shall maintain the information, if any, specified by the Administrator as a condition of the waiver of recordkeeping or reporting requirements.

(10) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(10)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable.

(i) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices that the owner or operator elects to equip with a closed-vent system and control device, subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(4).

(ii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(1).

(iii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices equipped with rupture disks, subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(2)(ii).

(iv) The dates and results of the Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, monitoring following a pressure release for each pressure relief device subject to the provisions in § 63.1434(c)(1) and (2). The results shall include:

(A) The background level measured during each compliance test.

(B) The maximum instrument reading measured at each piece of equipment during each compliance test.

(v) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.1434(c)(3), keep records of each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:

(A) The source, nature, and cause of the pressure release.

(B) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release.

(C) The quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such pressure releases.
