
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Initial Notification.

(3)The owner or operator of a new affected source shall submit a written Initial Notification to the Administrator containing the information described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section. The General Provisions' Initial Notification requirements in ยง 63.9(b)(2) and (3) shall not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(i) The Initial Notification shall include the following information:

(A) The name and address of the owner or operator;

(B) The address (physical location) of the affected source;

(C) An identification of the kinds of emission points within the affected source;

(D) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and the source's compliance date; and

(E) A statement of whether or not the affected source is a major source.

(ii) The Initial Notification shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable.

(A) [Reserved]

(B) For a new source that has an initial start-up on or after August 30, 1999, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required by the General Provisions in ยง 63.5(d) shall be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification. The application shall be submitted as soon as practical before construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but it need not be sooner than August 30, 1999). For a new source that reclassifies to major source status after January 19, 2021, and greater than 90 days after the initial start-up, the source shall submit the initial notification required by 63.9(b) no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart.

(C) For a new source that has an initial start-up prior to August 30, 1999, the Initial Notification shall be submitted no later than August 30, 1999, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The application for approval of construction or reconstruction described in the General Provisions' requirements in ยง 63.5(d) is not required for these sources.
