
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Notification of Compliance Status.

(5)For existing and new affected sources, a Notification of Compliance Status shall be submitted within 150 days after the compliance dates specified in § 63.1422. For equipment leaks subject to § 63.1434, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in the HON equipment leak Notification of Compliance Status requirements in § 63.182(c), in the Notification of Compliance Status required by this paragraph. For all other emission points, including heat exchange systems, the Notification of Compliance Status shall contain the information listed in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (vii) of this section. For pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.1434(c)(3), the owner or operator shall submit the information listed in paragraph (e)(5)(viii) of this section in the Notification of Compliance Status within 150 days after the first applicable compliance date for pressure relief device monitoring.

(i) The results of any emission point group determinations, process section applicability determinations, performance tests, inspections, continuous monitoring system performance evaluations, any other information required by the test method to be in the test report used to demonstrate compliance, values of monitored parameters established during performance tests, and any other information required to be included in a Notification of Compliance Status under the requirements for overlapping regulations in § 63.1422(j), the HON storage vessel reporting provisions in § 63.122 and the storage vessel provisions in § 63.1432, and the HON process wastewater reporting provisions in § 63.146. In addition, the owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (e)(5)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) For performance tests, group determinations, or determination that controls are needed, the Notification of Compliance Status shall include one complete test report, as described in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section, for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required by the test method to be in the test report shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(B) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards (if the owner or operator prepares the standards), record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method to be in the test report.

(ii) For each monitored parameter for which a maximum or minimum level is required to be established under the HON process vent monitoring requirements in § 63.114(e) and the process vent monitoring requirements in § 63.1429(d), the HON process wastewater parameter monitoring requirements in § 63.143(f), paragraph (e)(8) of this section, or paragraph (f) of this section, the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section shall be submitted. Further, as described in the storage vessel provisions in § 63.1432(k), for those storage vessels for which the parameter monitoring plan (required to be submitted under the HON Notification of Compliance Status requirements for storage vessels in § 63.120(d)(3)) specifies compliance with the parameter monitoring provisions of § 63.1438, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section for each monitoring parameter. For those storage vessels for which the parameter monitoring plan required to be submitted under the HON Notification of Compliance Status requirements for storage vessels in § 63.120(d)(2) does not require compliance with the provisions of § 63.1438, the owner or operator shall provide the information specified in § 63.120(d)(3) as part of the Notification of Compliance Status.

(A) The required information shall include the specific maximum or minimum level of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.

(B) The required information shall include the rationale for the specific maximum or minimum level for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the level and a description of why the level indicates that the combustion, recovery, or recapture device is operated in a manner to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subpart.

(C) The required information shall include a definition of the affected source's operating day, as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters.

(iii) The determination of applicability for flexible operation units as specified in § 63.1420(e)(1)(iii).

(iv) The parameter monitoring levels for flexible operation units, and the basis on which these levels were selected, or a demonstration that these levels are appropriate at all times, as specified in § 63.1420(e)(5)(ii)(A).

(v) The results for each predominant use determination made under § 63.1420(f)(1) through (7), for storage vessels assigned to an affected source subject to this subpart.

(vi) If any emission point is subject to this subpart and to other standards as specified in § 63.1422(j), and if the provisions of § 63.1422(j) allow the owner or operator to choose which testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping provisions will be followed, then the Notification of Compliance Status shall indicate which rule's requirements will be followed for testing, monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping.

(vii) An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 wastewater stream or residual removed from a Group 1 wastewater stream for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream or residual sent to the treatment facility. An owner or operator who transfers a Group 1 process vent for disposal pursuant to § 63.113(i) shall include in the Notification of Compliance Status the name and location of the transferee, and the identification of the Group 1 process vent.

(viii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service, a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored (if applicable), a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release, and a description of how the owner or operator will determine the information to be recorded under paragraphs (d)(10)(v)(B) and (C) of this section (i.e., the duration of the pressure release and the methodology and calculations for determining of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the pressure release).
