
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Precompliance Report.

(4)The owner or operator of an affected source requesting an extension for compliance; requesting approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, or alternative controls; or requesting approval to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1438(c) or (d) shall submit a Precompliance Report according to the schedule described in paragraph (e)(4)(i) of this section. The Precompliance Report shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(ii) through (viii) of this section, as appropriate.

(i) The Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator no later than 12 months prior to the compliance date. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved. For new affected sources, the Precompliance Report shall be submitted to the Administrator with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii) of this section. To submit a Precompliance Report for the first time after the compliance date to request an extension for compliance; request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, or alternative controls; or request approval to establish parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in § 63.1438(c) or (d), the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator at least 90 days before the planned change is to be implemented; the change shall be considered approved if the Administrator either approves the change in writing, or fails to disapprove the change in writing within 45 days of receipt.

(ii) A request for an extension for compliance, as specified in § 63.1422(e), may be submitted in the Precompliance Report. The request for a compliance extension shall include the data outlined in the General Provisions' compliance requirements in § 63.6(i)(6)(i)(A) and (B), as required in § 63.1422(e)(1).

(iii) The alternative monitoring parameter information required in paragraph (f) of this section shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of an affected source seeks to comply through the use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in this subpart or in 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, or seeks to comply by monitoring a different parameter than those specified in this subpart or in 40 CFR part 63, subpart G.

(iv) If the affected source seeks to comply using alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (g) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit a request for approval in the Precompliance Report.

(v) The owner or operator shall report the intent to use an alternative emission standard to comply with the provisions of this subpart in the Precompliance Report. The Administrator may deem an alternative emission standard to be equivalent to the standard required by the subpart, under the procedures outlined in the General Provisions' requirements for use of an alternative nonopacity emission standard, in § 63.6(g).

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii)(A) of this section, or as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(vii)(B) of this section. Unless the Administrator objects to a request submitted in a supplement to the Precompliance Report within 45 days after its receipt, the request shall be deemed approved.

(A) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to clarify or modify information previously submitted.

(B) Supplements to the Precompliance Report may be submitted to request approval to use alternative monitoring parameters, as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(iii) of this section; to use alternative continuous monitoring and recordkeeping, as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(iv) of this section; or to use alternative controls, as specified in paragraph (e)(4)(v) of this section.

(viii) If an owner or operator establishes parameter monitoring levels according to the procedures contained in the parameter monitoring provisions in § 63.1438(c) or (d), the following information shall be submitted in the Precompliance Report:

(A) Identification of which procedures (i.e., § 63.1438(c) or (d)) are to be used; and

(B) A description of how the parameter monitoring level is to be established. If the procedures in § 63.1438(c) are to be used, a description of how performance test data will be used shall be included.
