
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### ยง 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Violation of reporting requirements.

(1)Owners and operators shall not be in violation of the reporting requirements of this paragraph (e) for failing to submit information required to be included in a specified report if the owner or operator meets the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. Examples of circumstances where this paragraph may apply include information related to newly-added equipment or emission points, changes in the process, changes in equipment required or utilized for compliance with the requirements of this subpart, or changes in methods or equipment for monitoring, recordkeeping, or reporting.

(i) The information was not known in time for inclusion in the report specified by this subpart.

(ii) The owner or operator has been diligent in obtaining the information.

(iii) The owner or operator submits a report according to the provisions of paragraphs (e)(1)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) If this subpart expressly provides for supplements to the report in which the information is required, the owner or operator shall submit the information as a supplement to that report. The information shall be submitted no later than 60 days after it is obtained, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.

(B) If this subpart does not expressly provide for supplements, but the owner or operator must submit a request for revision of an operating permit pursuant to the State operating permit programs in part 70 or the Federal operating permit programs in part 71, due to circumstances to which the information pertains, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the request for revision to the operating permit.

(C) In any case not addressed by paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section, the owner or operator shall submit the information with the first Periodic Report, as required by this subpart, which has a submission deadline at least 60 days after the information is obtained.
