
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### Periodic Reports.

(6)For existing and new affected sources, the owner or operator shall submit Periodic Reports as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (ix) of this section. In addition, for equipment leaks subject to § 63.1434, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in the HON periodic reporting requirements in § 63.182(d), and for heat exchange systems subject to § 63.1434, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in the HON heat exchange system reporting requirements in § 63.104(f)(2), as part of the Periodic Report required by this paragraph (e)(6).

(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(viii) of this section, a report containing the information in paragraph (e)(6)(ii) of this section or paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section, as appropriate, shall be submitted semiannually no later than 60 days after the end of each 180-day period. The first report shall be submitted no later than 240 days after the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due and shall cover the 6-month period beginning on the date the Notification of Compliance Status is due. Subsequent reports shall cover each preceding 6-month period.

(ii) If none of the compliance exceptions in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section occurred during the 6-month period, the Periodic Report required by paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section shall be a statement that there were no compliance exceptions, as described in this paragraph, for the 6-month period covered by that report and that none of the activities specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii) through (vii) of this section occurred during the period covered by that report.

(iii) For an owner or operator of an affected source complying with the provisions of §§ 63.1432 through 63.1433 for any emission point, Periodic Reports shall include:

(A) All information specified in the HON periodic reporting requirements in § 63.122(a)(4) for storage vessels and in § 63.146(c) through § 63.146(f) for process wastewater.

(B) The daily average values of monitored parameters for all excursions, as defined in § 63.1438(f).

(C) The periods when monitoring data were not collected shall be specified; and
