
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyether Polyols Production
###### § 63.1439 General recordkeeping and reporting provisions.
####### 3

() For gas streams sent for disposal pursuant to § 63.113(i) or for process wastewater streams sent for treatment pursuant to § 63.132(g), reports of changes in the identity of the treatment facility or transferee.

(E) The information in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section for reports of malfunctions.

(iv) If any performance tests are reported in a Periodic Report, the following information shall be included:

(A) One complete test report shall be submitted for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. A complete test report shall contain the information specified in paragraph (e)(5)(i)(B) of this section.

(B) For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, results and any other information required by the test method to be in the test report shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(v) The results for each change made to a primary product determination for a PMPU made under § 63.1420(e)(3) or (10).

(vi) The results for each reevaluation of the applicability of this subpart to a storage vessel that begins receiving material from (or sending material to) a process unit that was not included in the initial determination, or a storage vessel that ceases to receive material from (or send material to) a process unit that was included in the initial determination, in accordance with § 63.1420(f)(8).

(vii) The Periodic Report required by the equipment leak provisions in § 63.1434(f) shall be submitted as part of the Periodic Report required by paragraph (e)(6) of this section.

(viii) The owner or operator of an affected source shall submit quarterly reports for particular emission points and process sections as specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(viii)(A) through (D) of this section.
