
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.132 Rule for general open burning permits.
######## Are there additional requirements that must be met?

(e)(1) A person subject to this section must submit an application to the Regional Administrator for each proposed open burn. An application must be submitted in writing at least one working day, and no earlier than five working days, prior to the requested date that the burn would be conducted, and must contain, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) Street address of the property upon that the proposed open burning will occur, or if there is no street address of the property, the legal description of the property.

(ii) Name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person who will be responsible for conducting the proposed open burning.

(iii) A plot plan showing the location of the proposed open burning in relation to the property lines and indicating the distances and directions of the nearest residential and commercial properties.

(iv) The type and quantity of materials proposed to be burned, including the estimated volume of material to be burned and the area over which burning will be conducted.

(v) A description of the measures that will be taken to prevent escaped burns, including but not limited to the availability of water.

(vi) The requested date when the proposed open burning would be conducted and the duration of the burn if it is more than one day.

(vii) Any other information specifically requested by the Regional Administrator.

(2) If the proposed open burning is consistent with this section and ยง 49.131 General rule for open burning, or the EPA-approved Tribal open burning rule, the Regional Administrator may issue a burn permit. The permit will authorize burning only for the requested date(s) and will include any conditions that the Regional Administrator determines are necessary to ensure compliance with this section, ยง 49.131 General rule for open burning or the EPA-approved Tribal open burning rule, and to protect the public health and welfare.

(3) When reviewing an application, the Regional Administrator will take into consideration relevant factors including, but not limited to, the size, duration, and location of the proposed open burn, the current and projected air quality conditions, the forecasted meteorological conditions, and other scheduled burning activities in the surrounding area. Where the Regional Administrator determines that the proposed open burning can be conducted without causing an adverse impact on air quality, a permit may be issued.

(4) The Regional Administrator, to the extent practical, will coordinate the issuance of open burning permits with the open burning permit programs of surrounding jurisdictions.
