
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1451 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations, work practice standards, and operation and maintenance requirements that apply to me?
######## Nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emissions limits.

(b)For each smelting furnace, slag cleaning vessel, and copper converter departments subject to the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emissions limit in § 63.1444 as applies to you, you have demonstrated initial compliance if you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The average concentration of nonsulfuric acid particulate matter in the process off-gas discharged from the affected source, measured according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(b), did not exceed 6.2 mg/dscm.

(2) You have submitted a notification of compliance status according to the requirements in § 63.1454(e).

(c) For each existing copper converter department subject to the opacity limit in § 63.1444, you have demonstrated initial compliance if you meet both of the conditions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The opacity of visible emissions exiting the roof monitors or roof exhaust fans on the building housing the copper converter department measured according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(c), did not exceed 4 percent opacity.

(2) You have submitted a notification of compliance status according to the requirements in § 63.1454(e).
