
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1453 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations, work practice standards, and operation and maintenance requirements that apply to me?
######## Particulate matter emission limits.

(a)For each affected source subject to a particulate matter emission limit § 63.1444 or § 63.1446 as applies to you, you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each copper concentrate dryer, smelting furnace, slag cleaning vessel, and copper converter department subject to a total particulate matter emission limit in § 63.1444 or § 63.1446 as applies to you, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Maintain the average concentration of total particulate matter in the gases discharged from the affected source at or below the applicable emission limit.

(ii) Conduct subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(a).

(2) For each smelting furnace, slag cleaning vessel, and copper converter department subject to the nonsulfuric acid particulate matter emission limit in § 63.1444 as applies to you, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the conditions in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Maintain the average concentration of nonsulfuric acid particulate matter in the process off-gas discharged from the affected source at or below 6.2 mg/dscm.

(ii) Conduct subsequent performance tests following your initial performance test no less frequently than once per year according to the performance test procedures in § 63.1450(b).
