
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.134 Rule for forestry and silvicultural burning permits.
######## Are there additional requirements that must be met?

(d)(1) A person subject to this section must submit an application to the Regional Administrator for each proposed forestry or silvicultural burn. An application must contain, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) Street address of the property upon which the proposed forestry or silvicultural burning will occur or, if there is no street address of the property, the legal description of the property.

(ii) Name, mailing address, and telephone number of the person who will be responsible for conducting the proposed forestry or silvicultural burning.

(iii) A plot plan showing the location of the proposed forestry or silvicultural burning in relation to the property lines and indicating the distances and directions of the nearest residential, public, and commercial properties, roads, and other areas that could be affected by the burning.

(iv) The type and quantity of forestry or silvicultural residues proposed to be burned, including the estimated weight of material to be burned and the area over which burning will be conducted.

(v) A description of the burning method(s) to be used (pile burn, broadcast burn, windrow burn, understory burn, etc.) and the amount of material to be burned with each method.

(vi) A description of the measures that will be taken to prevent escaped burns, including but not limited to the availability of water and firebreaks.

(vii) The requested date(s) that the proposed forestry or silvicultural burning would be conducted.

(viii) Any other information specifically requested by the Regional Administrator.

(2) If the proposed forestry or silvicultural burning is consistent with this section and ยง 49.131 General rule for open burning, or the EPA-approved Tribal open burning rule, the Regional Administrator may approve the forestry or silvicultural burning permit and authorize burning on the day burning is to be conducted after taking into consideration relevant factors including, but not limited to:

(i) The size, duration, and location of the proposed burn, the current and projected air quality conditions, the forecasted meteorological conditions, and other scheduled burning activities in the surrounding area; and

(ii) Other factors indicating whether or not the proposed forestry or silvicultural burning can be conducted without causing an adverse impact on air quality.

(3) The Regional Administrator, to the extent practical, will consult with and coordinate approvals to burn with the open burning programs of surrounding jurisdictions.
