
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.135 Rule for emissions detrimental to public health or welfare.
######## What are the requirements for air pollution sources?

(c)(1) A person must not cause or allow the emission of any air pollutants from an air pollution source, in sufficient quantities and of such characteristic and duration, that the Regional Administrator determines:

(i) Causes or contributes to a violation of any national ambient air quality standard; or

(ii) Is presenting an imminent and substantial endangerment to public health or welfare, or the environment.

(2) If the Regional Administrator makes either of the determinations in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, then the Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator of the source to install air pollution controls and/or to take reasonable precautions to reduce or prevent the emissions. If the Regional Administrator determines that the installation of air pollution controls and/or reasonable precautions are necessary, then the Regional Administrator will require the owner or operator to obtain a permit to construct or permit to operate for the source. The specific requirements will be established in the required permit to construct or permit to operate.

(3) Nothing in this section affects the ability of the Regional Administrator to issue an order pursuant to section 303 of the Act to require an owner or operator to immediately reduce or cease the emission of air pollutants.

(4) Nothing in this section shall be construed to impair any cause of action or legal remedy of any person, or the public, for injury or damages arising from the emission of any air pollutant in such place, manner, or amount as to constitute a common law nuisance.
