
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Emission Standards and Operating Requirements
####### ยง 63.1506 Operating requirements.
######## Aluminum scrap shredder.

(e)The owner or operator of a scrap shredder with emissions controlled by a fabric filter must operate a bag leak detection system, or a continuous opacity monitor, or conduct visible emissions observations.

(1) If a bag leak detection system is used to meet the monitoring requirements in ยง 63.1510, the owner or operator must:

(i) Initiate corrective action within 1-hour of a bag leak detection system alarm and complete the corrective action procedures in accordance with the OM&M plan.

(ii) Operate each fabric filter system such that the bag leak detection system alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month block reporting period. In calculating this operating time fraction, if inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alarm shall be counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If the owner or operator takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alarm time shall be counted as the actual amount of time taken by the owner or operator to initiate corrective action.

(2) If a continuous opacity monitoring system is used to meet the monitoring requirements in ยง 63.1510, the owner or operator must initiate corrective action within 1-hour of any 6-minute average reading of 5 percent or more opacity and complete the corrective action procedures in accordance with the OM&M plan.

(3) If visible emission observations are used to meet the monitoring requirements in ยง 63.1510, the owner or operator must initiate corrective action within 1-hour of any observation of visible emissions during a daily visible emissions test and complete the corrective action procedures in accordance with the OM&M plan.
