
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Emission Standards and Operating Requirements
####### ยง 63.1505 Emission standards for affected sources and emission units.
######## Secondary aluminum processing unit

(k). The owner or operator must comply with the emission limits calculated using the equations for PM, HCl and HF in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section for each secondary aluminum processing unit at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source. The owner or operator must comply with the emission limit calculated using the equation for D/F in paragraph (k)(3) of this section for each secondary aluminum processing unit at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major or area source.

(1) The owner or operator must not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emissions of PM in excess of:

(2) The owner or operator must not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emissions of HCl or HF in excess of:

(3) The owner or operator must not discharge or allow to be discharged to the atmosphere any 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emissions of D/F in excess of:

(4) The owner or operator of a SAPU at a secondary aluminum production facility that is a major source may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section by demonstrating that each emission unit within the SAPU is in compliance with the applicable emission limits of paragraphs (i) and (j) of this section.

(5) The owner or operator of a SAPU at a secondary aluminum production facility that is an area source may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits of paragraph (k)(3) of this section by demonstrating that each emission unit within the SAPU is in compliance with the emission limit of paragraph (i)(3) of this section.

(6) With the prior approval of the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, an owner or operator may redesignate any existing group 1 furnace or in-line fluxer at a secondary aluminum production facility as a new emission unit. Any emission unit so redesignated may thereafter be included in a new SAPU at that facility. Any such redesignation will be solely for the purpose of this NESHAP and will be irreversible.
