
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Emission Standards and Operating Requirements
####### ยง 63.1506 Operating requirements.
######## Summary.

(a)(1) The owner or operator must operate all new and existing affected sources and control equipment according to the requirements in this section. The affected sources, and their associated control equipment, listed in ยง 63.1500(c)(1) through (4) of this subpart that are located at a secondary aluminum production facility that is an area source are subject to the operating requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), (f), (g), (h), (m), (n), and (p) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator of an existing sweat furnace that meets the specifications of ยง 63.1505(f)(1) must operate the sweat furnace and control equipment according to the requirements of this section on and after the compliance date of this standard.

(3) The owner or operator of a new sweat furnace that meets the specifications of ยง 63.1505(f)(1) must operate the sweat furnace and control equipment according to the requirements of this section by March 23, 2000 or upon startup, whichever is later.

(4) Operating requirements are summarized in Table 2 to this subpart.

(5) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
