
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Emission Standards and Operating Requirements
####### ยง 63.1506 Operating requirements.
######## Group 1 furnace with add-on air pollution control devices.

(m)The owner or operator of a group 1 furnace with emissions controlled by a lime-injected fabric filter must:

(1) If a bag leak detection system is used to meet the monitoring requirements in ยง 63.1510, the owner or operator must:

(i) Initiate corrective action within 1 hour of a bag leak detection system alarm.

(ii) Complete the corrective action procedures in accordance with the OM&M plan.

(iii) Operate each fabric filter system such that the bag leak detection system alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month block reporting period. In calculating this operating time fraction, if inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alarm shall be counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If the owner or operator takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alarm time shall be counted as the actual amount of time taken by the owner or operator to initiate corrective action.

(2) If a continuous opacity monitoring system is used to meet the monitoring requirements in ยง 63.1510, the owner or operator must:

(i) Initiate corrective action within 1 hour of any 6-minute average reading of 5 percent or more opacity; and

(ii) Complete the corrective action procedures in accordance with the OM&M plan.

(3) Maintain the 3-hour block average inlet temperature for each fabric filter at or below the average temperature established during the performance test, plus 14 &#xB0;C (plus 25 &#xB0;F).

(4) For a continuous lime injection system, maintain free-flowing lime in the hopper to the feed device at all times and maintain the lime feeder setting at or above the level established during the performance test.

(5) Maintain the total reactive chlorine flux injection rate for each operating cycle or time period used in the performance test at or below the average rate established during the performance test.

(6) Operate each sidewell furnace such that:

(i) The level of molten metal remains above the top of the passage between the sidewell and hearth during reactive flux injection, unless emissions from both the sidewell and the hearth are included in demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.

(ii) Reactive flux is added only in the sidewell, unless emissions from both the sidewell and the hearth are included in demonstrating compliance with all applicable emission limits.

(7) The operation of capture/collection systems and control devices associated with natural gas-fired, propane-fired or electrically heated group 1 furnaces that will be idled for at least 24 hours after the furnace cycle has been completed may be temporarily stopped. Operation of these capture/collection systems and control devices must be restarted before feed/charge, flux or alloying materials are added to the furnace.
