
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Afterburner.

(g)These requirements apply to the owner or operator of an affected source using an afterburner to comply with the requirements of this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a device to continuously monitor and record the operating temperature of the afterburner consistent with the requirements for continuous monitoring systems in subpart A of this part.

(2) The temperature monitoring device must meet each of these performance and equipment specifications:

(i) The temperature monitoring device must be installed at the exit of the combustion zone of each afterburner.

(ii) The monitoring system must record the temperature in 15-minute block averages and determine and record the average temperature for each 3-hour block period.

(iii) The recorder response range must include zero and 1.5 times the average temperature established according to the requirements in ยง 63.1512(m).

(iv) The reference method must be a National Institute of Standards and Technology calibrated reference thermocouple-potentiometer system or alternate reference, subject to approval by the Administrator.

(3) The owner or operator must conduct an inspection of each afterburner at least once a year and record the results. At a minimum, an inspection must include:

(i) Inspection of all burners, pilot assemblies, and pilot sensing devices for proper operation and clean pilot sensor;

(ii) Inspection for proper adjustment of combustion air;
