
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Fabric filters and lime-injected fabric filters.

(f)The owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit using a fabric filter or lime-injected fabric filter to comply with the requirements of this subpart must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a bag leak detection system as required in paragraph (f)(1) of this section or a continuous opacity monitoring system as required in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The owner or operator of an aluminum scrap shredder must install and operate a bag leak detection system as required in paragraph (f)(1) of this section, install and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system as required in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, or conduct visible emission observations as required in paragraph (f)(3) of this section.

(1) These requirements apply to the owner or operator of a new or existing affected source or existing emission unit using a bag leak detection system.

(i) The owner or operator must install and operate a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack of a fabric filter.

(ii) Each bag leak detection system must be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained according to the manufacturer's operating instructions.

(iii) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.

(iv) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative or absolute PM loadings.

(v) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.

(vi) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound automatically when an increase in relative PM emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is easily heard by plant operating personnel.

(vii) For positive pressure fabric filter systems, a bag leak detection system must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell. For negative pressure or induced air fabric filters, the bag leak detector must be installed downstream of the fabric filter.

(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(ix) The baseline output must be established by adjusting the range and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.

(x) Following initial adjustment of the system, the owner or operator must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time except as detailed in the OM&M plan. In no case may the sensitivity be increased by more than 100 percent or decreased more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection which demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition.

(2) These requirements apply to the owner or operator of a new or existing affected source or an existing emission unit using a continuous opacity monitoring system.

(i) The owner or operator must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a continuous opacity monitoring system to measure and record the opacity of emissions exiting each exhaust stack.

(ii) Each continuous opacity monitoring system must meet the design and installation requirements of Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.

(3) These requirements apply to the owner or operator of a new or existing aluminum scrap shredder who conducts visible emission observations. The owner or operator must:

(i) Perform a visible emissions test for each aluminum scrap shredder using a certified observer at least once a day according to the requirements of Method 9 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60. Each Method 9 test must consist of five 6-minute observations in a 30-minute period; and

(ii) Record the results of each test.

(4) As an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, the owner or operator of a new or existing aluminum scrap shredder may measure the opacity of the emissions discharged through a stack or stacks using ASTM Method D7520-13 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14) subject to the requirements of paragraphs ยง 63.1510(f)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. Each test must consist of five 6-minute observations in a 30-minute period.

(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-13, the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).

(ii) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure that equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-13.

(iii) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in ยง 63.10(b)(1) for DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.

(iv) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity on any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.
