
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Feed/charge weight.

(e)The owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit subject to an emission limit in kg/Mg (lb/ton) or µg/Mg (gr/ton) of feed/charge must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a device to measure and record the total weight of feed/charge to, or the aluminum production from, the affected source or emission unit over the same operating cycle or time period used in the performance test. Feed/charge or aluminum production within SAPUs must be measured and recorded on an emission unit-by-emission unit basis. As an alternative to a measurement device, the owner or operator may use a procedure acceptable to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources to determine the total weight of feed/charge or aluminum production to the affected source or emission unit.

(1) The accuracy of the weight measurement device or procedure must be +/-1 percent of the weight being measured. The owner or operator may apply to the permitting agency for approval to use a device of alternative accuracy if the required accuracy cannot be achieved as a result of equipment layout or charging practices. A device of alternative accuracy will not be approved unless the owner or operator provides assurance through data and information that the affected source will meet the relevant emission standard.

(2) The owner or operator must verify the calibration of the weight measurement device in accordance with the schedule specified by the manufacturer, or if no calibration schedule is specified, at least once every 6 months.
