
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Operation, maintenance, and monitoring (OM&M) plan.

(b)The owner or operator must prepare and implement for each new or existing affected source and emission unit, a written OM&M plan. The owner or operator of an existing affected source must submit the OM&M plan to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources no later than the compliance date established by § 63.1501. The owner or operator of any new affected source must submit the OM&M plan to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources within 90 days after a successful initial performance test under § 63.1511(b), or within 90 days after the compliance date established by § 63.1501 if no initial performance test is required. The plan must be accompanied by a written certification by the owner or operator that the OM&M plan satisfies all requirements of this section and is otherwise consistent with the requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator must comply with all of the provisions of the OM&M plan as submitted to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, unless and until the plan is revised in accordance with the following procedures. If the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources determines at any time after receipt of the OM&M plan that any revisions of the plan are necessary to satisfy the requirements of this section or this subpart, the owner or operator must promptly make all necessary revisions and resubmit the revised plan. If the owner or operator determines that any other revisions of the OM&M plan are necessary, such revisions will not become effective until the owner or operator submits a description of the changes and a revised plan incorporating them to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources. Each plan must contain the following information:

(1) Process and control device parameters to be monitored to determine compliance, along with established operating levels or ranges, as applicable, for each process and control device.

(2) A monitoring schedule for each affected source and emission unit.

(3) Procedures for the proper operation and maintenance of each process unit and add-on control device used to meet the applicable emission limits or standards in § 63.1505.

(4) Procedures for the proper operation and maintenance of monitoring devices or systems used to determine compliance, including:

(i) Calibration and certification of accuracy of each monitoring device, at least once every 6 months, according to the manufacturer's instructions; and

(ii) Procedures for the quality control and quality assurance of continuous emission or opacity monitoring systems as required by the general provisions in subpart A of this part.

(5) Procedures for monitoring process and control device parameters, including lime injection rates, procedures for annual inspections of afterburners, and if applicable, the procedure to be used for determining charge/feed (or throughput) weight if a measurement device is not used.

(6) Corrective actions to be taken when process or operating parameters or add-on control device parameters deviate from the value or range established in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, including:

(i) Procedures to determine and record the cause of any deviation or excursion, and the time the deviation or excursion began and ended; and

(ii) Procedures for recording the corrective action taken, the time corrective action was initiated, and the time/date corrective action was completed.

(7) A maintenance schedule for each process and control device that is consistent with the manufacturer's instructions and recommendations for routine and long-term maintenance.

(8) Documentation of the work practice and pollution prevention measures used to achieve compliance with the applicable emission limits and a site-specific monitoring plan as required in paragraph (o) of this section for each group 1 furnace not equipped with an add-on air pollution control device.

(9) Procedures to be followed when changing furnace classifications under the provisions of § 63.1514.
