
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Lime injection.

(i)These requirements apply to the owner or operator of an affected source or emission unit using a lime-injected fabric filter to comply with the requirements of this subpart.

(1) The owner or operator of a continuous lime injection system must verify that lime is always free-flowing by either:

(i) Inspecting each feed hopper or silo at least once each 8-hour period and recording the results of each inspection. If lime is found not to be free-flowing during any of the 8-hour periods, the owner or operator must increase the frequency of inspections to at least once every 4-hour period for the next 3 days. The owner or operator may return to inspections at least once every 8 hour period if corrective action results in no further blockages of lime during the 3-day period; or

(ii) Subject to the approval of the permitting agency, installing, operating and maintaining a load cell, carrier gas/lime flow indicator, carrier gas pressure drop measurement system or other system to confirm that lime is free-flowing. If lime is found not to be free-flowing, the owner or operator must promptly initiate and complete corrective action, or

(iii) Subject to the approval of the permitting agency, installing, operating and maintaining a device to monitor the concentration of HCl at the outlet of the fabric filter. If an increase in the concentration of HCl indicates that the lime is not free-flowing, the owner or operator must promptly initiate and complete corrective action.

(2) The owner or operator of a continuous lime injection system must record the lime feeder setting once each day of operation.

(3) An owner or operator who intermittently adds lime to a lime-injected fabric filter must obtain approval from the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources for a lime addition monitoring procedure. The permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources will not approve a monitoring procedure unless data and information are submitted establishing that the procedure is adequate to ensure that relevant emission standards will be met on a continuous basis.

(4) At least once per month, verify that the lime injection rate in pounds per hour (lb/hr) is no less than 90 percent of the lime injection rate used to demonstrate compliance during your most recent performance test. If the monthly check of the lime injection rate is below the 90 percent, the owner or operator must repair or adjust the lime injection system to restore normal operation within 45 days. The owner or operator may request from the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, an extension of up to an additional 45 days to demonstrate that the lime injection rate is no less than 90 percent of the lime injection rate used to demonstrate compliance during the most recent performance test. In the event that a lime feeder is repaired or replaced, the feeder must be calibrated, and the feed rate must be restored to the lb/hr feed rate operating limit established during the most recent performance test within 45 days. The owner or operator may request from the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, an extension of up to an additional 45 days to complete the repair or replacement and establishing a new setting. The repair or replacement, and the establishment of the new feeder setting(s) must be documented in accordance with the recordkeeping requirements of ยง 63.1517.
