
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Group 1 furnace without add-on air pollution control devices.

(o)These requirements apply to the owner or operator of a group 1 furnace that is not equipped with an add-on air pollution control device.

(1) The owner or operator must develop, in consultation with the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, a written site-specific monitoring plan. The site-specific monitoring plan must be submitted to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources as part of the OM&M plan. The site-specific monitoring plan must contain sufficient procedures to ensure continuing compliance with all applicable emission limits and must demonstrate, based on documented test results, the relationship between emissions of PM, HCl, and D/F (and HF for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces), and the proposed monitoring parameters for each pollutant. Test data must establish the highest level of PM, HCl, and D/F (and HF for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces) that will be emitted from the furnace in accordance with ยง 63.1511(b)(1). If the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources determines that any revisions of the site-specific monitoring plan are necessary to meet the requirements of this section or this subpart, the owner or operator must promptly make all necessary revisions and resubmit the revised plan.

(i) The owner or operator of an existing affected source must submit the site-specific monitoring plan to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources for review at least 6 months prior to the compliance date.

(ii) The permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources will review and approve or disapprove a proposed plan, or request changes to a plan, based on whether the plan contains sufficient provisions to ensure continuing compliance with applicable emission limits and demonstrates, based on documented test results, the relationship between emissions of PM, HCl, and D/F (and HF for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces) and the proposed monitoring parameters for each pollutant. Test data must establish the highest level of PM, HCl, and D/F (and HF for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces) that will be emitted from the furnace. Subject to approval of the OM&M plan, the highest levels may be determined by conducting performance tests and monitoring operating parameters in accordance with ยง 63.1511(b)(1).

(2) Each site-specific monitoring plan must document each work practice, equipment/design practice, pollution prevention practice, or other measure used to meet the applicable emission standards.

(3) Each site-specific monitoring plan must include provisions for unit labeling as required in paragraph (c) of this section, feed/charge weight measurement (or production weight measurement) as required in paragraph (e) of this section and flux weight measurement as required in paragraph (j) of this section.

(4) Each site-specific monitoring plan for a melting/holding furnace subject to the clean charge emission standard in ยง 63.1505(i)(3) must include these requirements:
