
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Total reactive flux injection rate.

(j)These requirements apply to the owner or operator of a group 1 furnace (with or without add-on air pollution control devices) or in-line fluxer. The owner or operator must:

(1) Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a device to continuously measure and record the weight of gaseous or liquid reactive flux injected to each affected source or emission unit.

(i) The monitoring system must record the weight for each 15-minute block period, during which reactive fluxing occurs, over the same operating cycle or time period used in the performance test.

(ii) The accuracy of the weight measurement device must be +/-1 percent of the weight of the reactive component of the flux being measured. The owner or operator may apply to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources for permission to use a weight measurement device of alternative accuracy in cases where the reactive flux flow rates are so low as to make the use of a weight measurement device of +/-1 percent impracticable. A device of alternative accuracy will not be approved unless the owner or operator provides assurance through data and information that the affected source will meet the relevant emission standards.

(iii) The owner or operator must verify the calibration of the weight measurement device in accordance with the schedule specified by the manufacturer, or if no calibration schedule is specified, at least once every 6 months.

(2) Calculate and record the gaseous or liquid reactive flux injection rate (kg/Mg or lb/ton) for each operating cycle or time period used in the performance test using the procedure in ยง 63.1512(o).

(3) Record, for each 15-minute block period during each operating cycle or time period used in the performance test during which reactive fluxing occurs, the time, weight, and type of flux for each addition of:

(i) Gaseous or liquid reactive flux other than chlorine; and

(ii) Solid reactive flux.

(4) Calculate and record the total reactive flux injection rate for each operating cycle or time period used in the performance test using the procedure in ยง 63.1512(o). For solid flux that is added intermittently, record the amount added for each operating cycle or time period used in the performance test using the procedures in ยง 63.1512(o).

(5) The owner or operator of a group 1 furnace or in-line fluxer performing reactive fluxing may apply to the Administrator for approval of an alternative method for monitoring and recording the total reactive flux addition rate based on monitoring the weight or quantity of reactive flux per ton of feed/charge for each operating cycle or time period used in the performance test. An alternative monitoring method will not be approved unless the owner or operator provides assurance through data and information that the affected source will meet the relevant emission standards on a continuous basis.
