
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1511 Performance test/compliance demonstration general requirements.
######## Initial performance test.

(b)Following approval of the site-specific test plan, the owner or operator must demonstrate initial compliance with each applicable emission, equipment, work practice, or operational standard for each affected source and emission unit, and report the results in the notification of compliance status report as described in § 63.1515(b). The owner or operator of any affected source constructed before February 14, 2012, for which an initial performance test is required to demonstrate compliance must conduct this initial performance test no later than the date for compliance established by § 63.1501. The owner or operator of any affected source constructed or reconstructed after February 14, 2012, for which an initial performance test is required must conduct this initial performance test within 180 days after the date for compliance established by § 63.1501. Except for the date by which the performance test must be conducted, the owner or operator must conduct each performance test in accordance with the requirements and procedures set forth in § 63.7(c). Owners or operators of affected sources located at facilities which are area sources are subject only to those performance testing requirements pertaining to D/F. Owners or operators of sweat furnaces meeting the specifications of § 63.1505(f)(1) are not required to conduct a performance test.

(1) The performance tests must be conducted under representative conditions expected to produce the highest level of HAP emissions expressed in the units of the emission standards for the HAP (considering the extent of feed/charge contamination, reactive flux addition rate and feed/charge rate). If a single test condition is not expected to produce the highest level of emissions for all HAP, testing under two or more sets of conditions (for example high contamination at low feed/charge rate, and low contamination at high feed/charge rate) may be required. Any subsequent performance tests for the purposes of establishing new or revised parametric limits shall be allowed upon pre-approval from the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources. These new parametric settings shall be used to demonstrate compliance for the period being tested.

(2) Each performance test for a continuous process must consist of 3 separate runs; pollutant sampling for each run must be conducted for the time period specified in the applicable method or, in the absence of a specific time period in the test method, for a minimum of 3 hours.

(3) Each performance test for a batch process must consist of three separate runs; pollutant sampling for each run must be conducted over the entire process operating cycle. Additionally, for batch processes where the length of the process operating cycle is not known in advance, and where isokinetic sampling must be conducted based on the procedures in Method 5 in appendix A to part 60, use the following procedure to ensure that sampling is conducted over the entire process operating cycle:
