
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1510 Monitoring requirements.
######## Alternative monitoring methods.

(w)If an owner or operator wishes to use an alternative monitoring method to demonstrate compliance with any emission standard in this subpart, other than those alternative monitoring methods which may be authorized pursuant to ยง 63.1510(j)(5) and ยง 63.1510(v), the owner or operator may submit an application to the Administrator. Any such application will be processed according to the criteria and procedures set forth in paragraphs (w)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The Administrator will not approve averaging periods other than those specified in this section.

(2) The owner or operator must continue to use the original monitoring requirement until necessary data are submitted and approval is received to use another monitoring procedure.

(3) The owner or operator shall submit the application for approval of alternate monitoring methods no later than the notification of the performance test. The application must contain the information specified in paragraphs (w)(3) (i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) Data or information justifying the request, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality of using the required approach;

(ii) A description of the proposed alternative monitoring requirements, including the operating parameters to be monitored, the monitoring approach and technique, and how the limit is to be calculated; and

(iii) Data and information documenting that the alternative monitoring requirement(s) would provide equivalent or better assurance of compliance with the relevant emission standard(s).

(4) The Administrator will not approve an alternate monitoring application unless it would provide equivalent or better assurance of compliance with the relevant emission standard(s). Before disapproving any alternate monitoring application, the Administrator will provide:

(i) Notice of the information and findings upon which the intended disapproval is based; and

(ii) Notice of opportunity for the owner or operator to present additional supporting information before final action is taken on the application. This notice will specify how much additional time is allowed for the owner or operator to provide additional supporting information.

(5) The owner or operator is responsible for submitting any supporting information in a timely manner to enable the Administrator to consider the application prior to the performance test. Neither submittal of an application nor the Administrator's failure to approve or disapprove the application relieves the owner or operator of the responsibility to comply with any provisions of this subpart.

(6) The Administrator may decide at any time, on a case-by-case basis, that additional or alternative operating limits, or alternative approaches to establishing operating limits, are necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards of this subpart.
