
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1511 Performance test/compliance demonstration general requirements.
######## Establishment of monitoring and operating parameter values.

(g)The owner or operator of new or existing affected sources and emission units must establish a minimum or maximum operating parameter value, or an operating parameter range for each parameter to be monitored as required by ยง 63.1510 that ensures compliance with the applicable emission limit or standard. To establish the minimum or maximum value or range, the owner or operator must use the appropriate procedures in this section and submit the information required by ยง 63.1515(b)(4) in the notification of compliance status report. The owner or operator may use existing data in addition to the results of performance tests to establish operating parameter values for compliance monitoring provided each of the following conditions are met to the satisfaction of the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources:

(1) The complete emission test report(s) used as the basis of the parameter(s) is submitted.

(2) The same test methods and procedures as required by this subpart were used in the test.

(3) The owner or operator certifies that no design or work practice changes have been made to the source, process, or emission control equipment since the time of the report.

(4) All process and control equipment operating parameters required to be monitored were monitored as required in this subpart and documented in the test report.

(5) If the owner or operator wants to conduct a new performance test and establish different operating parameter values, they must submit a revised site specific test plan and receive approval in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section. In addition, if an owner or operator wants to use existing data in addition to the results of the new performance test to establish operating parameter values, they must meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section.
