
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1512 Performance test/compliance demonstration requirements and procedures.
######## Secondary aluminum processing unit

(j). The owner or operator must conduct performance tests as described in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section. The results of the performance tests are used to establish emission rates in lb/ton of feed/charge for PM, HCl and HF and µg TEQ/Mg of feed/charge for D/F emissions from each emission unit. These emission rates are used for compliance monitoring in the calculation of the 3-day, 24-hour rolling average emission rates using the equation in § 63.1510(t). A performance test is required for:

(1) Each group 1 furnace processing only clean charge to measure emissions of PM and either:

(i) Emissions of HF and HCl (for determining the emission limit); or

(ii) The mass flow rate of HCl at the inlet to and outlet from the control device (for the percent reduction standard).

(2) Each group 1 furnace that processes scrap other than clean charge to measure emissions of PM and D/F and either:

(i) Emissions of HF and HCl (for determining the emission limit); or

(ii) The mass flow rate of HCl at the inlet to and outlet from the control device (for the percent reduction standard).

(3) Each in-line fluxer to measure emissions of PM and HCl.
