
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1512 Performance test/compliance demonstration requirements and procedures.
######## Group 1 furnace (including melting holding furnaces) without add-on air pollution control devices.

(e)In the site-specific monitoring plan required by § 63.1510(o), the owner or operator of a group 1 furnace (including a melting/holding furnaces) without add-on air pollution control devices must include data and information demonstrating compliance with the applicable emission limits.

(1) If the group 1 furnace processes other than clean charge material, the owner or operator must conduct emission tests to measure emissions of PM, HCl, HF, and D/F at the furnace exhaust outlet.

(2) If the group 1 furnace processes only clean charge, the owner or operator must conduct emission tests to simultaneously measure emissions of PM, HCl and HF. A D/F test is not required. Each test must be conducted while the group 1 furnace (including a melting/holding furnace) processes only clean charge.

(3) The owner or operator may choose to determine the rate of reactive flux addition to the group 1 furnace and assume, for the purposes of demonstrating compliance with the SAPU emission limit, that all chlorine and fluorine contained in reactive flux added to the group 1 furnace is emitted as HCl and HF. Under these circumstances, the owner or operator is not required to conduct an emission test for HCl or HF.

(4) When testing an existing uncontrolled furnace, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of either paragraphs (e)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section at the next required performance test required by § 63.1511(e).

(i) Install hooding that meets ACGIH Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or

(ii) At least 180 days prior to testing petition the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, that such hoods are impractical under the provisions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section and propose testing procedures that will minimize unmeasured emissions during the performance test according to the paragraph (e)(7) of this section, or

(iii) Assume an 80-percent capture efficiency for the furnace exhaust (i.e., multiply emissions measured at the furnace exhaust outlet by 1.25). If the source fails to demonstrate compliance using the 80-percent capture efficiency assumption, the owner or operator must re-test with a hood that meets the ACGIH Guidelines within 180 days, or petition the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, within 180 days that such hoods are impractical under the provisions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section and propose testing procedures that will minimize unmeasured emissions during the performance test according to paragraph (e)(7) of this section.

(iv) The 80-percent capture efficiency assumption is not applicable in the event of testing conducted under an approved petition submitted pursuant to paragraphs (e)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section.

(v) Round top furnaces constructed before February 14, 2012, and reconstructed round top furnaces are exempt from the requirements of paragraphs (e)(4)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section. Round top furnaces must be operated to minimize unmeasured emissions according to paragraph (e)(7) of this section.

(5) When testing a new uncontrolled furnace, other than a new round top furnace, constructed after February 14, 2012, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section at the next required performance test required by § 63.1511(e). When testing a new round top furnace constructed after February 14, 2012, the owner or operator must comply with the requirements of either paragraphs (e)(5)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section at the next required performance test required by § 63.1511(e).

(i) Install hooding that meets ACGIH Guidelines (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or

(ii) At least 180 days prior to testing petition the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources, that such hoods are impractical under the provisions of paragraph (e)(6) of this section and propose testing procedures that will minimize unmeasured emissions during the performance test according to the paragraph (e)(7) of this section, or
