
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1513 Equations for determining compliance.
######## Secondary aluminum processing unit.

(e)Use the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) or the procedure in paragraph (e)(4) of this section to determine compliance with emission limits for a secondary aluminum processing unit.

(1) Use Equation 9 to compute the mass-weighted PM emissions for a secondary aluminum processing unit. Compliance is achieved if the mass-weighted emissions for the secondary aluminum processing unit (E) is less than or equal to the emission limit for the secondary aluminum processing unit (L) calculated using Equation 1 in § 63.1505(k).

(2) Use Equation 10 to compute the aluminum mass-weighted HCl or HF emissions for the secondary aluminum processing unit. Compliance is achieved if the mass-weighted emissions for the secondary aluminum processing unit (E) is less than or equal to the emission limit for the secondary aluminum processing unit (L) calculated using Equation 2 in § 63.1505(k).

(3) Use Equation 11 to compute the aluminum mass-weighted D/F emissions for the secondary aluminum processing unit. Compliance is achieved if the mass-weighted emissions for the secondary aluminum processing unit is less than or equal to the emission limit for the secondary aluminum processing unit (L) calculated using Equation 3 in § 63.1505(k).

(4) As an alternative to using the equations in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, the owner or operator may demonstrate compliance for a secondary aluminum processing unit by demonstrating that each existing group 1 furnace is in compliance with the emission limits for a new group 1 furnace in § 63.1505(i) and that each existing in-line fluxer is in compliance with the emission limits for a new in-line fluxer in § 63.1505(j).
