
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1514 Change of furnace classification.
######## Changing from a group 1 controlled furnace processing other than clean charge to a group 1 uncontrolled furnace processing clean charge.

(b)An owner or operator wishing to change operating modes must conduct performance tests in accordance with §§ 63.1511 and 63.1512 to demonstrate to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources that compliance can be achieved in both modes. Operating parameters relevant to each mode of operation must be established during the performance test.

(1) Operators of major sources must conduct performance tests for PM, HCl and D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512(d) with the capture system and control device operating normally if compliance has not been previously demonstrated in this operating mode. Performance tests must be repeated at least once every 5 years to demonstrate compliance for each operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted in accordance with § 63.1511(b)(1) in the controlled mode.

(ii) Operating parameters must be established during these tests, as required by § 63.1511(g).

(iii) The emission factors for this mode of operation for use in the demonstration of compliance with the emission limits for SAPUs specified in § 63.1505(k) must be determined.

(2) Operators of major sources must conduct performance tests for PM, HCl, HF and D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512(e) without operating a control device if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for this operating mode. Performance tests must be repeated at least once every 5 years to demonstrate compliance for each operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph may be conducted at any time after operation with clean charge has commenced.

(ii) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted with furnace emissions captured in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1506(c) and directed to the stack or vent tested.

(iii) Operating parameters representing uncontrolled operation must be established during these tests, as required by § 63.1511(g). For furnaces in batch (cyclic) operation, the number of tap-to-tap cycles (including zero, if none) elapsed using the feed/charge type, feed/charge rate and flux rate must be established as a parameter to be met before changing to uncontrolled mode. For furnaces in continuous (non-cyclic) operation, the time period elapsed (including no time if none) using the feed/charge type, feed/charge rate and flux rate must be established as a parameter to be met before changing to uncontrolled mode.

(iv) Emissions of D/F during this test must not exceed 1.5 µg TEQ/Mg of feed/charge.

(v) The emission factors for this mode of operation for use in the demonstration of compliance with the emission limits for SAPUs specified in § 63.1505(k), must be determined.

(3) Operators of area sources must conduct performance tests for D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512(d) with the capture system and control device operating normally, if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for this operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted in accordance with § 63.1511(b)(1).

(ii) Operating parameters must be established during these tests, as required by § 63.1511(g).

(iii) The D/F emission factor for this mode of operation for use in the demonstration of compliance with the emission limits for SAPUs specified in § 63.1505(k) must be determined.

(4) Operators of area sources must conduct performance tests for D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512(e) without operating a control device if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for this operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted at any time after operation with clean charge has commenced and must be conducted in accordance with § 63.1511(b)(1) and under representative conditions expected to produce the highest level of D/F in the uncontrolled mode.

(ii) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted with furnace emissions captured in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1506(c) and directed to the stack or vent tested.

(iii) Operating parameters representing uncontrolled operation must be established during these tests, as required by § 63.1511(g). For furnaces in batch (cyclic) operation, the number of tap-to-tap cycles elapsed (including zero, if none) using the feed/charge type, feed/charge rate and flux rate must be established as a parameter to be met before changing to uncontrolled mode. For furnaces in continuous (non-cyclic) operation, the time period elapsed (including no time, if none) using the feed/charge type, feed/charge rate and flux rate must be established as a parameter to be met before changing to uncontrolled mode.

(iv) Emissions of D/F during this test must not exceed 1.5 µg TEQ/Mg of feed/charge.

(5) To change modes of operation from uncontrolled to controlled, the owner or operator must perform the following, before charging scrap to the furnace that exceeds the contaminant level established for uncontrolled mode:

(i) Change the label on the furnace to reflect controlled operation;

(ii) Direct the furnace emissions to the control device;

(iii) Turn on the control device and begin lime addition to the control device at the rate established for controlled mode; and

(iv) Ensure the control device is operating properly.

(6) To change modes of operation from controlled to uncontrolled, the owner or operator must perform the following, before turning off or bypassing the control device:

(i) Change the label on the furnace to reflect uncontrolled operation;

(ii) Charge clean charge for the number of tap-to-tap cycles that elapsed (or, for continuously operated furnaces, the time elapsed) before the uncontrolled mode performance test was conducted; and

(iii) Decrease the flux addition rate to no higher than the flux addition rate used in the uncontrolled mode performance test.

(7) In addition to the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.1517, the owner or operator must maintain records of the nature of each mode change (controlled to uncontrolled, or uncontrolled to controlled), the time the furnace operating mode change is initiated, and the time the exhaust gas is diverted from control device to bypass or from bypass to control device.
