
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Monitoring and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1514 Change of furnace classification.
######## Changing from a group 1 controlled or uncontrolled furnace to a group 2 furnace.

(c)An owner or operator wishing to change operating modes must conduct performance tests in accordance with §§ 63.1511 and 63.1512 to demonstrate to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources that compliance can be achieved under both modes and establish the number of cycles (or time) of operation with clean charge and no reactive flux addition necessary before changing to group 2 mode. Operating parameters relevant to group 1 operation must be established during the performance test.

(1) Operators of major sources must conduct performance tests for PM, HCl and D/F (and HF for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces) according to the procedures in § 63.1512 if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for the operating mode. Controlled group 1 furnaces must conduct performance tests according to the procedures in § 63.1512(d) with the capture system and control device operating normally. Uncontrolled group 1 furnaces must conduct performance tests according to the procedures in § 63.1512(e) without operating a control device. Performance tests must be repeated at least once every 5 years to demonstrate compliance for each operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted in accordance with § 63.1511(b)(1) in both modes.

(ii) Operating parameters must be established during these tests, as required by § 63.1511(g).

(iii) The emission factors for this mode of operation for use in the demonstration of compliance with the emission limits for SAPUs specified in § 63.1505(k) must be determined.

(2) While in compliance with the operating requirements of § 63.1506(o) for group 2 furnaces, operators of major sources must conduct performance tests for PM, HCl, HF and D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512(e) without operating a control device if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for this operating mode. Performance tests must be repeated at least once every 5 years to demonstrate compliance for each operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph may be conducted at any time after the furnace has commenced operation with clean charge and without reactive flux addition.

(ii) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted with furnace emissions captured in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1506(c) and directed to the stack or vent tested.

(iii) Owners or operators must demonstrate that emissions are no greater than:

(A) 1.5 µg D/F (TEQ) per Mg of feed/charge;

(B) 0.040 lb HCl or HF per ton of feed/charge; and

(C) 0.040 lb PM per ton of feed/charge.

(iv) The number of tap-to-tap cycles, or time elapsed between starting operation with clean charge and no reactive flux addition and the group 2 furnace performance test must be established as an operating parameter to be met before changing to group 2 mode.

(3) Operators of area sources must conduct a performance tests for D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512 if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for the operating mode. Controlled group 1 furnaces must conduct performance tests according to the procedures in § 63.1512(d) with the capture system and control device operating normally. Uncontrolled group 1 furnaces must conduct performance tests according to the procedures in § 63.1512(e) without operating a control device.

(i) The performance tests must be conducted in accordance with § 63.1511(b)(1) under representative conditions expected to produce the highest expected level of D/F in the group 1 mode.

(ii) Operating parameters must be established during these tests, as required by § 63.1511(g).

(iii) The D/F emission factor for this mode of operation, for use in the demonstration of compliance with the emission limits for SAPUs specified in § 63.1505(k) must be determined.

(4) While in compliance with the operating requirements of § 63.1506(o) for group 2 furnaces, operators of area sources must conduct performance tests for D/F, according to the procedures in § 63.1512(e) without operating a control device if compliance has not been previously demonstrated for this operating mode.

(i) Testing under this paragraph may be conducted at any time after the furnace has commenced operation with clean charge, and without reactive flux addition.

(ii) Testing under this paragraph must be conducted with furnace emissions captured in accordance with the provisions of § 63.1506(c) and directed to the stack or vent tested.

(iii) Owners or operators must demonstrate that emissions are no greater than 1.5 µg D/F (TEQ) per Mg of feed/charge.

(iv) The number of tap-to-tap cycles, or time elapsed between starting operation with clean charge and no reactive flux and the group 2 furnace performance tests must be established as an operating parameter to be met before changing to group 2 mode.

(5) To change modes of operation from a group 2 furnace to a group 1 furnace, the owner or operator must perform the following before adding other than clean charge and before adding reactive flux to the furnace:

(i) Change the label on the furnace to reflect group 1 operation;

(ii) Direct the furnace emissions to the control device, if it is equipped with a control device;

(iii) If the furnace is equipped with a control device, turn on the control device and begin lime addition to the control device at the rate established for group 1 mode; and

(iv) Ensure the control device is operating properly.

(6) To change mode of operation from a group 1 furnace to group 2 furnace, the owner or operator must perform the following, before turning off or bypassing the control device:

(i) Change the label on the furnace to reflect group 2 operation;

(ii) Charge clean charge for the number of tap-to-tap cycles that elapsed (or, for continuously operated furnaces, the time elapsed) before the group 2 performance test was conducted; and,

(iii) Use no reactive flux.

(7) In addition to the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.1517, the owner or operator must maintain records of the nature of each mode change (controlled or uncontrolled to group 2), the time the change is initiated, and the time the exhaust gas is diverted from control device to bypass or from bypass to control device.
