
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Notifications, Reports, And Records
####### § 63.1515 Notifications.
######## Initial notifications.

(a)The owner or operator must submit initial notifications to the permitting authority for major sources, or the Administrator for area sources as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) As required by § 63.9(b)(1), the owner or operator must provide notification for an area source that subsequently increases its emissions such that the source is a major source subject to the standard.

(2) As required by § 63.9(b)(3), the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source, or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is an affected source, that has an initial startup after the effective date of this subpart and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d), must provide notification that the source is subject to the standard.

(3) As required by § 63.9(b)(4), the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed major affected source that has an initial startup after the effective date of this subpart and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required by § 63.5(d) must provide the following notifications:

(i) Intention to construct a new major affected source, reconstruct a major source, or reconstruct a major source such that the source becomes a major affected source;

(ii) Date when construction or reconstruction was commenced (submitted simultaneously with the application for approval of construction or reconstruction if construction or reconstruction was commenced before the effective date of this subpart, or no later than 30 days after the date construction or reconstruction commenced if construction or reconstruction commenced after the effective date of this subpart);

(iii) Anticipated date of startup; and

(iv) Actual date of startup.

(4) As required by § 63.9(b)(5), after the effective date of this subpart, an owner or operator who intends to construct a new affected source or reconstruct an affected source subject to this subpart, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes an affected source subject to this subpart, must provide notification of the intended construction or reconstruction. The notification must include all the information required for an application for approval of construction or reconstruction as required by § 63.5(d). For major sources, the application for approval of construction or reconstruction may be used to fulfill these requirements.

(i) The application must be submitted as soon as practicable before the construction or reconstruction is planned to commence (but no sooner than the effective date) if the construction or reconstruction commences after the effective date of this subpart; or

(ii) The application must be submitted as soon as practicable before startup but no later than 90 days after the effective date of this subpart if the construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before the effective date.

(5) As required by § 63.9(d), the owner or operator must provide notification of any special compliance obligations for a new source.

(6) As required by § 63.9(e) and (f), the owner or operator must provide notification of the anticipated date for conducting performance tests and visible emission observations. The owner or operator must notify the Administrator of the intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance test is scheduled; notification of opacity or visible emission observations for a performance test must be provided at least 30 days before the observations are scheduled to take place.

(7) As required by § 63.9(g), the owner or operator must provide additional notifications for sources with continuous emission monitoring systems or continuous opacity monitoring systems.
