
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Notifications, Reports, And Records
####### § 63.1515 Notifications.
######## Notification of compliance status report.

(b)Each owner or operator of an existing affected source must submit a notification of compliance status report within 60 days after the compliance date established by § 63.1501. Each owner or operator of a new affected source must submit a notification of compliance status report within 90 days after conducting the initial performance test required by § 63.1511(b), or within 90 days after the compliance date established by § 63.1501 if no initial performance test is required. The notification must be signed by the responsible official who must certify its accuracy. A complete notification of compliance status report must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (10) of this section. The required information may be submitted in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submittal, or in any combination. In a State with an approved operating permit program where delegation of authority under section 112(l) of the CAA has not been requested or approved, the owner or operator must provide duplicate notification to the applicable Regional Administrator. If an owner or operator submits the information specified in this section at different times or in different submittals, later submittals may refer to earlier submittals instead of duplicating and resubmitting the information previously submitted. A complete notification of compliance status report must include:

(1) All information required in § 63.9(h). The owner or operator must provide a complete performance test report for each affected source and emission unit for which a performance test is required. A complete performance test report includes all data, associated measurements, and calculations (including visible emission and opacity tests).

(2) The approved site-specific test plan and performance evaluation test results for each continuous monitoring system (including a continuous emission or opacity monitoring system).

(3) Unit labeling as described in § 63.1506(b), including process type or furnace classification and operating requirements.

(4) The compliant operating parameter value or range established for each affected source or emission unit with supporting documentation and a description of the procedure used to establish the value (e.g., lime injection rate, total reactive chlorine flux injection rate, total reactive fluorine flux injection rate for uncontrolled group 1 furnaces, afterburner operating temperature, fabric filter inlet temperature), including the operating cycle or time period used in the performance test.

(5) Design information and analysis, with supporting documentation, demonstrating conformance with the requirements for capture/collection systems in § 63.1506(c).

(6) If applicable, analysis and supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with EPA guidance and specifications for bag leak detection systems in § 63.1510(f).

(7) Manufacturer's specification or analysis documenting the design residence time of no less than 1 second for each afterburner used to control emissions from a scrap dryer/delacquering kiln/decoating kiln subject to alternative emission standards in § 63.1505(e).

(8) Manufacturer's specification or analysis documenting the design residence time of no less than 0.8 seconds and design operating temperature of no less than 1,600 &#xB0;F for each afterburner used to control emissions from a sweat furnace that is not subject to a performance test.

(9) The OM&M plan (including site-specific monitoring plan for each group 1 furnace with no add-on air pollution control device).
