
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Aluminum Production
###### Notifications, Reports, And Records
####### ยง 63.1516 Reports.
######## Annual compliance certifications.

(c)For the purpose of annual certifications of compliance required by 40 CFR part 70 or 71, the owner or operator of a major source subject to this subpart must certify continuing compliance based upon, but not limited to, the following conditions:

(1) Any period of excess emissions, as defined in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, that occurred during the year were reported as required by this subpart; and

(2) All monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements were met during the year.

(d) If there was a malfunction during the reporting period, the owner or operator must submit a report that includes the emission unit ID, monitor ID, pollutant or parameter monitored, beginning date and time of the event, end date and time of the event, cause of the deviation or exceedance and corrective action taken for each malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must include a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, including, but not limited to, product-loss calculations, mass balance calculations, measurements when available, or engineering judgment based on known process parameters. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 63.1506(a)(5).

(e) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in ยง 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of a source, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraph (b) of this section in paper format.
