
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Lead Smelting
###### ยง 63.1544 Standards for fugitive dust sources.
####### Refining and casting area(s).

(5)(i) Personnel doors must be kept closed during operations except when entering or exiting the furnace building by the aid of door weights or similar device for automatic closure.

(ii) Large equipment doors must remain closed except when entering or existing the building using an automatic closure system or equivalent lock-and-key method.

(iii) It may be necessary to open doors subject to the requirements in ยง 63.1544(a)(5)(i) and (ii) to prevent heat stress or exhaustion of workers inside the refining and casting building. Records of such periods must be included in the report required under ยง 63.1549(e)(8).

(b) Notwithstanding paragraph (c) of this section, the standard operating procedures manual shall be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval.

(c) Existing manuals that describe the measures in place to control fugitive dust sources required as part of a State implementation plan for lead shall satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section provided they include all the work practices as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section and provided they address all the sources listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(d) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
