
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.1562 What parts of my plant are covered by this subpart?
######## i.e.

(1) The process vent or group of process vents on fluidized catalytic cracking units that are associated with regeneration of the catalyst used in the unit (, the catalyst regeneration flue gas vent).

(2) The process vent or group of process vents on catalytic reforming units (including but not limited to semi-regenerative, cyclic, or continuous processes) that are associated with regeneration of the catalyst used in the unit. This affected source includes vents that are used during the unit depressurization, purging, coke burn, and catalyst rejuvenation.

(3) The process vent or group of process vents on Claus or other types of sulfur recovery plant units or the tail gas treatment units serving sulfur recovery plants that are associated with sulfur recovery.

(4) Each bypass line serving a new, existing, or reconstructed catalytic cracking unit, catalytic reforming unit, or sulfur recovery unit. This means each vent system that contains a bypass line (e.g., ductwork) that could divert an affected vent stream away from a control device used to comply with the requirements of this subpart.

(c) An affected source is a new affected source if you commence construction of the affected source after September 11, 1998, and you meet the applicability criteria in ยง 63.1561 at the time you commenced construction.

(d) Any affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria in ยง 63.2.

(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.

(f) This subpart does not apply to:

(1) A thermal catalytic cracking unit.

(2) A sulfur recovery unit that does not recover elemental sulfur or where the modified reaction is carried out in a water solution which contains a metal ion capable of oxidizing the sulfide ion to sulfur (e.g., the LO-CAT II process).

(3) A redundant sulfur recovery unit not located at a petroleum refinery and used by the refinery only for emergency or maintenance backup.

(4) Equipment associated with bypass lines such as low leg drains, high point bleed, analyzer vents, open-ended valves or lines, or pressure relief valves needed for safety reasons.

(5) Gaseous streams routed to a fuel gas system, provided that on and after January 30, 2019, any flares receiving gas from the fuel gas system are subject to ยง 63.670.
