
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.1563 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you startup your affected source before April 11, 2002, then you must comply with the emission limitations and work practice standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than April 11, 2002 except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) If you startup your affected source after April 11, 2002, you must comply with the emission limitations and work practice standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the emission limitations and work practice standards for existing affected sources in this subpart by no later than April 11, 2005 except as specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(c) We will grant an extension of compliance for an existing catalytic cracking unit allowing additional time to meet the emission limitations and work practice standards for catalytic cracking units in §§ 63.1564 and 63.1565 if you commit to hydrotreating the catalytic cracking unit feedstock and to meeting the emission limitations of this subpart on the same date that your facility meets the final Tier 2 gasoline sulfur control standard (40 CFR part 80, subpart J). To obtain an extension, you must submit a written notification to your permitting authority according to the requirements in § 63.1574(e). Your notification must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Identification of the affected source with a brief description of the controls to be installed (if needed) to comply with the emission limitations for catalytic cracking units in this subpart.

(2) A compliance schedule, including the information in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The date by which onsite construction or the process change is to be initiated.

(ii) The date by which onsite construction or the process change is to be completed.

(iii) The date by which your facility will achieve final compliance with both the final Tier 2 gasoline sulfur control standard as specified in § 80.195, and the emission limitations and work practice standards for catalytic cracking units in this subpart. In no case will your permitting authority grant an extension beyond the date you are required to meet the Tier 2 gasoline sulfur control standard or December 31, 2009, whichever comes first. If you don't comply with the emission limitations and work practice standards for existing catalytic cracking units by the specified date, you will be out-of-compliance with the requirements for catalytic cracking units beginning April 11, 2005.

(iv) A brief description of interim emission control measures that will be taken to ensure proper operation and maintenance of the process equipment during the period of the compliance extension.

(d) You must comply with the applicable requirements in §§ 63.1564(a)(5), 63.1565(a)(5) and 63.1568(a)(4) as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) For sources which commenced construction or reconstruction before June 30, 2014, you must comply with the applicable requirements in §§ 63.1564(a)(5), 63.1565(a)(5) and 63.1568(a)(4) on or before August 1, 2017 unless an extension is requested and approved in accordance with the provisions in § 63.6(i). After February 1, 2016 and prior to the date of compliance with the provisions in §§ 63.1564(a)(5), 63.1565(a)(5) and 63.1568(a)(4), you must comply with the requirements in § 63.1570(c) and (d).

(2) For sources which commenced construction or reconstruction on or after June 30, 2014, you must comply with the applicable requirements in §§ 63.1564(a)(5), 63.1565(a)(5) and 63.1568(a)(4) on or before February 1, 2016 or upon startup, whichever is later.

(e) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP, the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) Any portion of the existing facility that is a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart upon startup.

(2) All other parts of the source must be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart by no later than 3 years after it becomes a major source or, if applicable, the extended compliance date granted according to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section.

(f) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.1574 according to the schedule in § 63.1574 and in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Some of the notifications must be submitted before the date you are required to comply with the emission limitations and work practice standards in this subpart.
