
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### § 63.1564 What are my requirements for metal HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units?
######## What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?

(a)You must:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, meet each emission limitation in table 1 of this subpart that applies to you. If your catalytic cracking unit is subject to the NSPS for PM in § 60.102 of this chapter or is subject to § 60.102a(b)(1) of this chapter, you must meet the emission limitations for NSPS units. If your catalytic cracking unit is not subject to the NSPS for PM, you can choose from the six options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section:

(i) You can elect to comply with the NSPS for PM in § 60.102 of this chapter (Option 1a);

(ii) You can elect to comply with the NSPS for PM coke burn-off emission limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) of this chapter (Option 1b);

(iii) You can elect to comply with the NSPS for PM concentration limit in § 60.102a(b)(1) of this chapter (Option 1c);

(iv) You can elect to comply with the PM per coke burn-off emission limit (Option 2);

(v) You can elect to comply with the Nickel (Ni) lb/hr emission limit (Option 3); or

(vi) You can elect to comply with the Ni per coke burn-off emission limit (Option 4).

(2) Comply with each operating limit in Table 2 of this subpart that applies to you. When a specific control device may be monitored using more than one continuous parameter monitoring system, you may select the parameter with which you will comply. You must provide notice to the Administrator (or other designated authority) if you elect to change the monitoring option.

(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan.

(4) The emission limitations and operating limits for metal HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units required in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply during periods of planned maintenance preapproved by the applicable permitting authority according to the requirements in § 63.1575(j).

(5) On or before the date specified in § 63.1563(d), you must comply with one of the two options in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section during periods of startup, shutdown and hot standby:

(i) You can elect to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, except catalytic cracking units controlled using a wet scrubber must maintain only the liquid to gas ratio operating limit (the pressure drop operating limit does not apply); or

(ii) You can elect to maintain the inlet velocity to the primary internal cyclones of the catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator at or above 20 feet per second.
