
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### § 63.1566 What are my requirements for organic HAP emissions from catalytic reforming units?
######## What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?

(a)You must:

(1) Meet each emission limitation in Table 15 of this subpart that applies to you. You can choose from the two options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You can elect to vent emissions of total organic compounds (TOC) to a flare (Option 1). On and after January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the control device requirements in § 63.11(b) or the requirements of § 63.670.

(ii) You can elect to meet a TOC or nonmethane TOC percent reduction standard or concentration limit, whichever is less stringent (Option 2).

(2) Comply with each site-specific operating limit in Table 16 of this subpart that applies to you.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, the emission limitations in Tables 15 and 16 of this subpart apply to emissions from catalytic reforming unit process vents associated with initial catalyst depressuring and catalyst purging operations that occur prior to the coke burn-off cycle. The emission limitations in Tables 15 and 16 of this subpart do not apply to the coke burn-off, catalyst rejuvenation, reduction or activation vents, or to the control systems used for these vents.

(4) The emission limitations in tables 15 and 16 of this subpart do not apply to emissions from process vents during passive depressuring when the reactor vent pressure is 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less or during active depressuring or purging prior to January 30, 2019, when the reactor vent pressure is 5 psig or less. On and after January 30, 2019, the emission limitations in tables 15 and 16 of this subpart do apply to emissions from process vents during active purging operations (when nitrogen or other purge gas is actively introduced to the reactor vessel) or active depressuring (using a vacuum pump, ejector system, or similar device) regardless of the reactor vent pressure.

(5) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan.
