
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### ยง 63.1567 What are my requirements for inorganic HAP emissions from catalytic reforming units?
######## What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?

(a)You must:

(1) Meet each emission limitation in Table 22 to this subpart that applies to you. If you operate a catalytic reforming unit in which different reactors in the catalytic reforming unit are regenerated in separate regeneration systems, then these emission limitations apply to each separate regeneration system. These emission limitations apply to emissions from catalytic reforming unit process vents associated with the coke burn-off and catalyst rejuvenation operations during coke burn-off and catalyst regeneration. You can choose from the two options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section:

(i) You can elect to meet a percent reduction standard for hydrogen chloride (HCl) emissions (Option 1); or

(ii) You can elect to meet an HCl concentration limit (Option 2).

(2) Meet each site-specific operating limit in Table 23 of this subpart that applies to you. These operating limits apply during coke burn-off and catalyst rejuvenation.

(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in ยง 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan.
