
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### ยง 63.1564 What are my requirements for metal HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units?
######## How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standard?

(b)You must:

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system(s) according to the requirements in ยง 63.1572 and Table 3 of this subpart.

(2) Conduct a performance test for each catalytic cracking unit according to the requirements in ยง 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 4 of this subpart.

(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 2 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 4 of this subpart.

(4) Use the procedures in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission limitations.

(i) If you elect Option 1b or Option 2 in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) or (iv) of this section, compute the PM emission rate (lb/1,000 lb of coke burn-off) for each run using Equations 1, 2, and 3 (if applicable) of this section and the site-specific opacity limit, if applicable, using Equation 4 of this section as follows:

(ii) If you elect Option 1c in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, the PM concentration emission limit, determine the average PM concentration from the initial performance test used to certify your PM CEMS.

(iii) If you elect Option 3 in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section, the Ni lb/hr emission limit, compute your Ni emission rate using Equation 5 of this section and your site-specific Ni operating limit (if you use a continuous opacity monitoring system) using Equations 6 and 7 of this section as follows:

(iv) If you elect Option 4 in paragraph (a)(1)(vi) of this section, the Ni per coke burn-off emission limit, compute your Ni emission rate using Equations 1 and 8 of this section and your site-specific Ni operating limit (if you use a continuous opacity monitoring system) using Equations 9 and 10 of this section as follows:

(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 5 of this subpart.

(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status.

(7) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in ยง 63.1574.
