
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### § 63.1565 What are my requirements for organic HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units?
######## What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?

(a)You must:

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, meet each emission limitation in Table 8 of this subpart that applies to you. If your catalytic cracking unit is subject to the NSPS for carbon monoxide (CO) in § 60.103 of this chapter or is subject to § 60.102a(b)(4) of this chapter, you must meet the emission limitations for NSPS units. If your catalytic cracking unit is not subject to the NSPS for CO, you can choose from the two options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section:

(i) You can elect to comply with the NSPS requirements (Option 1); or

(ii) You can elect to comply with the CO emission limit (Option 2).

(2) Comply with each site-specific operating limit in Table 9 of this subpart that applies to you.

(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan.

(4) The emission limitations and operating limits for organic HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units required in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not apply during periods of planned maintenance preapproved by the applicable permitting authority according to the requirements in § 63.1575(j).

(5) On or before the date specified in § 63.1563(d), you must comply with one of the two options in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section during periods of startup, shutdown and hot standby:

(i) You can elect to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section; or

(ii) You can elect to maintain the oxygen (O) concentration in the exhaust gas from your catalyst regenerator at or above 1 volume percent (dry basis) or 1 volume percent (wet basis with no moisture correction).
