
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### ยง 63.1566 What are my requirements for organic HAP emissions from catalytic reforming units?
######## How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standard?

(b)You must:

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system(s) according to the requirements in ยง 63.1572 and Table 17 of this subpart.

(2) Conduct each performance test for a catalytic reforming unit according to the requirements in ยง 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 18 of this subpart.

(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 16 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 18 of this subpart.

(4) Use the procedures in paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission limitations.

(i) If you elect the percent reduction standard under Option 2, calculate the emission rate of nonmethane TOC using Equation 1 of this section (if you use Method 25) or Equation 2 of this section (if you use Method 25A or Methods 25A and 18), then calculate the mass emission reduction using Equation 3 of this section as follows:

(ii) If you elect the 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) concentration limit, correct the measured TOC concentration for oxygen (O) content in the gas stream using Equation 4 of this section as follows:

(5) You are not required to do a TOC performance test if:

(i) You elect to vent emissions to a flare as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section (Option 1); or

(ii) You elect the TOC percent reduction or concentration limit in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section (Option 2), and you use a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 MW or greater or a boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced into the flame zone.

(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 19 of this subpart.

(7) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(5) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status.

(8) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in ยง 63.1574.
