
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### § 63.1565 What are my requirements for organic HAP emissions from catalytic cracking units?
######## How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?

(b)You must:

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.1572 and Table 10 of this subpart. Except:

(i) Whether or not your catalytic cracking unit is subject to the NSPS for CO in § 60.103 of this chapter, you don't have to install and operate a continuous emission monitoring system if you show that CO emissions from your vent average less than 50 parts per million (ppm), dry basis. You must get an exemption from your permitting authority, based on your written request. To show that the emissions average is less than 50 ppm (dry basis), you must continuously monitor CO emissions for 30 days using a CO continuous emission monitoring system that meets the requirements in § 63.1572.

(ii) If your catalytic cracking unit isn't subject to the NSPS for CO, you don't have to install and operate a continuous emission monitoring system or a continuous parameter monitoring system if you vent emissions to a boiler (including a "CO boiler") or process heater that has a design heat input capacity of at least 44 megawatts (MW).

(iii) If your catalytic cracking unit isn't subject to the NSPS for CO, you don't have to install and operate a continuous emission monitoring system or a continuous parameter monitoring system if you vent emissions to a boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced into the flame zone.

(2) Conduct each performance test for a catalytic cracking unit not subject to the NSPS for CO according to the requirements in § 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 11 of this subpart.

(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 9 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 11 of this subpart.

(4) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 12 of this subpart.

(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.1574.

(6) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.1574.
