
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1570 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with all of the non-opacity standards in this subpart at all times.

(b) You must be in compliance with the opacity and visible emission limits in this subpart at all times.

(c) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(d) During the period between the compliance date specified for your affected source and the date upon which continuous monitoring systems have been installed and validated and any applicable operating limits have been set, you must maintain a log that documents the procedures used to minimize emissions from process and emissions control equipment according to the general duty in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limitation and each operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. You also must report each instance in which you did not meet the work practice standards in this subpart that apply to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations and work practice standards in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in ยง 63.1575.
