
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### ยง 63.1567 What are my requirements for inorganic HAP emissions from catalytic reforming units?
######## How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standard?

(b)You must:

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system(s) according to the requirements in ยง 63.1572 and Table 24 of this subpart.

(2) Conduct each performance test for a catalytic reforming unit according to the requirements in ยง 63.1571 and the conditions specified in Table 25 of this subpart.

(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 23 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 25 of this subpart.

(4) Use the equations in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission limitations.

(i) Correct the measured HCl concentration for oxygen (O) content in the gas stream using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(ii) If you elect the percent reduction standard, calculate the emission rate of HCl using Equation 2 of this section; then calculate the mass emission reduction from the mass emission rates using Equation 3 of this section as follows:

(iii) If you are required to use a colormetric tube sampling system to demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl concentration operating limit, calculate the HCl operating limit using Equation 4 of this section as follows:

(iv) If you are required to use a colormetric tube sampling system to demonstrate continuous compliance with the percent reduction operating limit, calculate the HCl operating limit using Equation 5 of this section as follows:

(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 26 of this subpart.

(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your Notification of Compliance Status.

(7) Submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in ยง 63.1574.
