
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### ยง 63.1568 What are my requirements for HAP emissions from sulfur recovery units?
######## How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?

(b)You must:

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a continuous monitoring system according to the requirements in ยง 63.1572 and Table 31 of this subpart.

(2) Conduct each performance test for a sulfur recovery unit not subject to the NSPS for sulfur oxides according to the requirements in ยง 63.1571 and under the conditions specified in Table 32 of this subpart.

(3) Establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 30 of this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures in Table 32 of this subpart.

(4) Correct the reduced sulfur samples to zero percent excess air using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(5) Demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you according to Table 33 of this subpart.

(6) Demonstrate initial compliance with the work practice standard in paragraph (a)(3) of this section by submitting the operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan to your permitting authority as part of your notification of compliance status.

(7) Submit the notification of compliance status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in ยง 63.1574.
