
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1571 How and when do I conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration?
######## When must I conduct a performance test?

(a)You must conduct initial performance tests and report the results by no later than 150 days after the compliance date specified for your source in § 63.1563 and according to the provisions in §§ 63.7(a)(2) and 63.1574(a)(3). If you are required to do a performance evaluation or test for a semi-regenerative catalytic reforming unit catalyst regenerator vent, you may do them at the first regeneration cycle after your compliance date and report the results in a followup Notification of Compliance Status report due no later than 150 days after the test. You must conduct additional performance tests as specified in paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) of this section and report the results of these performance tests according to the provisions in § 63.1575(f).

(1) For each emission limitation or work practice standard where initial compliance is not demonstrated using a performance test, opacity observation, or visible emission observation, you must conduct the initial compliance demonstration within 30 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.1563.

(2) For each emission limitation where the averaging period is 30 days, the 30-day period for demonstrating initial compliance begins at 12:00 a.m. on the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.1563 and ends at 11:59 p.m., 30 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.1563.

(3) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between September 11, 1998 and April 11, 2002, you must demonstrate initial compliance with either the proposed emission limitation or the promulgated emission limitation no later than October 8, 2002 or within 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).

(4) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between September 11, 1998 and April 11, 2002, and you chose to comply with the proposed emission limitation when demonstrating initial compliance, you must conduct a second compliance demonstration for the promulgated emission limitation by October 10, 2005, or after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).
