
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, Sulfur Recovery Units, and Bypass Lines
####### § 63.1568 What are my requirements for HAP emissions from sulfur recovery units?
######## What emission limitations and work practice standard must I meet?

(a)You must:

(1) Meet each emission limitation in Table 29 of this subpart that applies to you. If your sulfur recovery unit is subject to the NSPS for sulfur oxides in § 60.104 or § 60.102a(f)(1) of this chapter, you must meet the emission limitations for NSPS units. If your sulfur recovery unit is not subject to one of these NSPS for sulfur oxides, you can choose from the options in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section:

(i) You can elect to meet the NSPS requirements in § 60.104(a)(2) or § 60.102a(f)(1) of this chapter (Option 1); or

(ii) You can elect to meet the total reduced sulfur (TRS) emission limitation (Option 2).

(2) Meet each operating limit in Table 30 of this subpart that applies to you.

(3) Prepare an operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan according to the requirements in § 63.1574(f) and operate at all times according to the procedures in the plan.

(4) On or before the date specified in § 63.1563(d), you must comply with one of the three options in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section during periods of startup and shutdown.

(i) You can elect to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(ii) You can elect to send any startup or shutdown purge gases to a flare. On and after January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the requirements of § 63.670. Prior to January 30, 2019, the flare must meet the design and operating requirements in § 63.11(b) or the requirements of § 63.670.

(iii) You can elect to send any startup or shutdown purge gases to a thermal oxidizer or incinerator operated at a minimum hourly average temperature of 1,200 degrees Fahrenheit in the firebox and a minimum hourly average outlet oxygen (O) concentration of 2 volume percent (dry basis).
