
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1571 How and when do I conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration?
######## What procedures must I use for an engineering assessment?

(c)You may choose to use an engineering assessment to calculate the process vent flow rate, net heating value, TOC emission rate, and total organic HAP emission rate expected to yield the highest daily emission rate when determining the emission reduction or outlet concentration for the organic HAP standard for catalytic reforming units. If you use an engineering assessment, you must document all data, assumptions, and procedures to the satisfaction of the applicable permitting authority. An engineering assessment may include the approaches listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. Other engineering assessments may be used but are subject to review and approval by the applicable permitting authority.

(1) You may use previous test results provided the tests are representative of current operating practices at the process unit, and provided EPA methods or approved alternatives were used;

(2) You may use bench-scale or pilot-scale test data representative of the process under representative operating conditions;

(3) You may use maximum flow rate, TOC emission rate, organic HAP emission rate, or organic HAP or TOC concentration specified or implied within a permit limit applicable to the process vent; or

(4) You may use design analysis based on engineering principles, measurable process parameters, or physical or chemical laws or properties. Examples of analytical methods include, but are not limited to:

(i) Use of material balances based on process stoichiometry to estimate maximum TOC concentrations;

(ii) Calculation of hourly average maximum flow rate based on physical equipment design such as pump or blower capacities; and

(iii) Calculation of TOC concentrations based on saturation conditions.
