
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1571 How and when do I conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration?
######## One-time performance testing for Hydrogen Cyanide (HCN).

(6)Conduct a performance test for HCN from each catalytic cracking unit no later than August 1, 2017 or within 150 days of startup of a new unit according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) If you conducted a performance test for HCN for a specific catalytic cracking unit between March 31, 2011 and February 1, 2016, you may submit a request to the Administrator to use the previously conducted performance test results to fulfill the one-time performance test requirement for HCN for each of the catalytic cracking units tested according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The request must include a copy of the complete source test report, the date(s) of the performance test and the test methods used. If available, you must also indicate whether the catalytic cracking unit catalyst regenerator was operated in partial or complete combustion mode during the test, the control device configuration, including whether platinum or palladium combustion promoters were used during the test, and the CO concentration (measured using CO CEMS or manual test method) for each test run.

(B) You must submit a separate request for each catalytic cracking unit tested and you must submit each request to the Administrator no later than March 30, 2016.

(C) The Administrator will evaluate each request with respect to the completeness of the request, the completeness of the submitted test report and the appropriateness of the test methods used. The Administrator will notify the facility within 60 days of receipt of the request if it is approved or denied. If the Administrator fails to respond to the facility within 60 days of receipt of the request, the request will be automatically approved.

(D) If the request is approved, you do not need to conduct an additional HCN performance test. If the request is denied, you must conduct an additional HCN performance test following the requirements in (a)(6)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Unless you receive approval to use a previously conducted performance test to fulfill the one-time performance test requirement for HCN for your catalytic cracking unit as provided in paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section, conduct a performance test for HCN for each catalytic cracking unit no later than August 1, 2017 according to following requirements:

(A) Select sampling port location, determine volumetric flow rate, conduct gas molecular weight analysis and measure moisture content as specified in either Item 1 of Table 4 of this subpart or Item 1 of Table 11 of this subpart.

(B) Measure HCN concentration using Method 320 of appendix A of this part. The method ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) including Annexes A1 through A8 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 320 of appendix A of this part. The method ASTM D6348-12e1 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 320 of appendix A of this part with the following two caveats:
