
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1571 How and when do I conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration?
######## Can I adjust the process or control device measured values when establishing an operating limit?

(d)If you do a performance test to demonstrate compliance, you must base the process or control device operating limits for continuous parameter monitoring systems on the results measured during the performance test. You may adjust the values measured during the performance test according to the criteria in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) If you must meet the HAP metal emission limitations in § 63.1564, you elect the option in paragraph (a)(1)(v) in § 63.1564 (Ni lb/hr), and you use continuous parameter monitoring systems, you must establish an operating limit for the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration based on the laboratory analysis of the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration from the initial performance test. Section 63.1564(b)(2) allows you to adjust the laboratory measurements of the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration to the maximum level. You must make this adjustment using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(2) If you must meet the HAP metal emission limitations in § 63.1564, you elect the option in paragraph (a)(1)(vi) in § 63.1564 (Ni per coke burn-off), and you use continuous parameter monitoring systems, you must establish an operating limit for the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration based on the laboratory analysis of the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration from the initial performance test. Section 63.1564(b)(2) allows you to adjust the laboratory measurements of the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration to the maximum level. You must make this adjustment using Equation 2 of this section as follows:

(3) If you choose to adjust the equilibrium catalyst Ni concentration to the maximum level, you can't adjust any other monitored operating parameter (i.e., gas flow rate, voltage, pressure drop, liquid-to-gas ratio).

(4) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, if you use continuous parameter monitoring systems, you may adjust one of your monitored operating parameters (flow rate, total power and secondary current, pressure drop, liquid-to-gas ratio) from the average of measured values during the performance test to the maximum value (or minimum value, if applicable) representative of worst-case operating conditions, if necessary. This adjustment of measured values may be done using control device design specifications, manufacturer recommendations, or other applicable information. You must provide supporting documentation and rationale in your Notification of Compliance Status, demonstrating to the satisfaction of your permitting authority, that your affected source complies with the applicable emission limit at the operating limit based on adjusted values.
