
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1572 What are my monitoring installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) You must install, operate, and maintain each continuous emission monitoring system according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must install, operate, and maintain each continuous emission monitoring system according to the requirements in Table 40 of this subpart.

(2) If you use a continuous emission monitoring system to meet the NSPS CO or SOlimit, you must conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous emission monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.8 and Table 40 of this subpart. This requirement does not apply to an affected source subject to the NSPS that has already demonstrated initial compliance with the applicable performance specification.

(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(ii), each continuous emission monitoring system must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(4) Data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(b) You must install, operate, and maintain each continuous opacity monitoring system according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each continuous opacity monitoring system must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the requirements in Table 40 of this subpart.

(2) If you use a continuous opacity monitoring system to meet the NSPS opacity limit, you must conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous opacity monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.8 and Table 40 of this subpart. This requirement does not apply to an affected source subject to the NSPS that has already demonstrated initial compliance with the applicable performance specification.

(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(i), each continuous opacity monitoring system must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(c) Except for flare monitoring systems, you must install, operate, and maintain each continuous parameter monitoring system according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. For flares, on and after January 30, 2019, you must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain monitoring systems as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671. Prior to January 30, 2019, you must either meet the monitoring system requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section or meet the requirements in §§ 63.670 and 63.671.

(1) You must install, operate, and maintain each continuous parameter monitoring system according to the requirements in Table 41 of this subpart. You must also meet the equipment specifications in Table 41 of this subpart if pH strips or colormetric tube sampling systems are used. You must meet the requirements in Table 41 of this subpart for BLD systems. Alternatively, before August 1, 2017, you may install, operate, and maintain each continuous parameter monitoring system in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment will monitor accurately.

(2) The continuous parameter monitoring system must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four successive cycles of operation to have a valid hour of data (or at least two if a calibration check is performed during that hour or if the continuous parameter monitoring system is out-of-control).

(3) Each continuous parameter monitoring system must have valid hourly average data from at least 75 percent of the hours during which the process operated, except for BLD systems.

(4) Each continuous parameter monitoring system must determine and record the hourly average of all recorded readings and if applicable, the daily average of all recorded readings for each operating day, except for BLD systems. The daily average must cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous or the number of hours of operation per day if operation is not continuous, except for BLD systems.

(5) Each continuous parameter monitoring system must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.

(d) You must monitor and collect data according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Except for monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must conduct all monitoring in continuous operation (or collect data at all required intervals) at all times the affected source is operating.

(2) You may not use data recorded during required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments) for purposes of this regulation, including data averages and calculations, for fulfilling a minimum data availability requirement, if applicable. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.
