
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.1571 How and when do I conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration?
######## What are the general requirements for performance test and performance evaluations?

(b)You must:

(1) Performance tests shall be conducted according to the provisions of § 63.7(e) except that performance tests shall be conducted at maximum representative operating capacity for the process. During the performance test, you must operate the control device at either maximum or minimum representative operating conditions for monitored control device parameters, whichever results in lower emission reduction. You must not conduct a performance test during startup, shutdown, periods when the control device is bypassed or periods when the process, monitoring equipment or control device is not operating properly. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that the test was conducted at maximum representative operating capacity. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(2) Except for opacity and visible emission observations, conduct three separate test runs for each performance test as specified in § 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(3) Conduct each performance evaluation according to the requirements in § 63.8(e).

(4) Calculate the average emission rate for the performance test by calculating the emission rate for each individual test run in the units of the applicable emission limitation using Equation 2, 5, or 8 of § 63.1564, and determining the arithmetic average of the calculated emission rates.
