
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1573 What are my monitoring alternatives?
######## What are the approved alternatives for measuring gas flow rate?,i.e.,,i.e.,

(a)(1) You may use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for the catalytic regenerator exhaust gas flow rate for your catalytic cracking unit if the unit does not introduce any other gas streams into the catalyst regeneration vent (complete combustion units with no additional combustion devices). You may also use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for the catalytic regenerator atmospheric exhaust gas flow rate for your catalytic reforming unit during the coke burn and rejuvenation cycles if the unit operates as a constant pressure system during these cycles. You may also use this alternative to a continuous parameter monitoring system for the gas flow rate exiting the catalyst regenerator to determine inlet velocity to the primary internal cyclones as required in ยง 63.1564(c)(5) regardless of the configuration of the catalytic regenerator exhaust vent downstream of the regenerator (regardless of whether or not any other gas streams are introduced into the catalyst regeneration vent). Except, if you only use this alternative to demonstrate compliance with ยง 63.1564(c)(5), you shall use this procedure for the performance test and for monitoring after the performance test. You shall:

(i) Install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit or catalytic reforming unit regenerator. Or, you may determine and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit or catalytic reforming unit regenerator using the appropriate control room instrumentation.

(ii) Install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the temperature of the gases entering the control device (or exiting the catalyst regenerator if you do not use an add-on control device).

(iii) Calculate and record the hourly average actual exhaust gas flow rate using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(2) You may use this alternative to calculating Q, the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas for the catalytic cracking regenerator as required in Equation 1 of ยง 63.1564, if you have a gas analyzer installed in the catalytic cracking regenerator exhaust vent prior to the addition of air or other gas streams. You may measure upstream or downstream of an electrostatic precipitator, but you shall measure upstream of a carbon monoxide boiler. You shall:

(i) Install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system to measure and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit regenerator. Or, you can determine and record the hourly average volumetric air flow rate to the catalytic cracking unit regenerator using the catalytic cracking unit control room instrumentation.

(ii) Install and operate a continuous gas analyzer to measure and record the concentration of carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide, and oxygen of the catalytic cracking regenerator exhaust.

(iii) Calculate and record the hourly average flow rate using Equation 2 of this section as follows:
