
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.1573 What are my monitoring alternatives?
######## How do I request to monitor alternative parameters?

(f)You must submit a request for review and approval or disapproval to the Administrator. The request must include the information in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) A description of each affected source and the parameter(s) to be monitored to determine whether the affected source will continuously comply with the emission limitations and an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter(s).

(2) A description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter can be used to determine whether the affected source will continuously comply with the emission limitations and the schedule for this demonstration. You must certify that you will establish an operating limit for the monitored parameter(s) that represents the conditions in existence when the control device is being properly operated and maintained to meet the emission limitation.

(3) The frequency and content of monitoring, recording, and reporting, if monitoring and recording are not continuous. You also must include the rationale for the proposed monitoring, recording, and reporting requirements.

(4) Supporting calculations.

(5) Averaging time for the alternative operating parameter.
