
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.1574 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) Except as allowed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, you must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.6(h), 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), 63.8(f)(4), 63.8(f)(6), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(1) You must submit the notification of your intention to construct or reconstruct according to § 63.9(b)(5) unless construction or reconstruction had commenced and initial startup had not occurred before April 11, 2002. In this case, you must submit the notification as soon as practicable before startup but no later than July 10, 2002. This deadline also applies to the application for approval of construction or reconstruction and approval of construction or reconstruction based on State preconstruction review required in §§ 63.5(d)(1)(i) and 63.5(f)(2).

(2) You must submit the notification of intent to conduct a performance test required in § 63.7(b) at least 30 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin (instead of 60 days).

(3) If you are required to conduct an initial performance test, performance evaluation, design evaluation, opacity observation, visible emission observation, or other initial compliance demonstration, you must submit a notification of compliance status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You can submit this information in an operating permit application, in an amendment to an operating permit application, in a separate submission, or in any combination. In a State with an approved operating permit program where delegation of authority under section 112(l) of the CAA has not been requested or approved, you must provide a duplicate notification to the applicable Regional Administrator. If the required information has been submitted previously, you do not have to provide a separate notification of compliance status. Just refer to the earlier submissions instead of duplicating and resubmitting the previously submitted information.

(i) For each initial compliance demonstration that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 30 calendar days following completion of the initial compliance demonstration.
