
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.1575 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 43 of this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit each report by the date in Table 43 of this subpart and according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1563 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1563.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.1563.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to part 70 or 71 of this chapter, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter, you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(c) The compliance report must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) If there are no deviations from any emission limitation that applies to you and there are no deviations from the requirements for work practice standards, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations or work practice standards during the reporting period and that no continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, out-of-control, repaired, or adjusted.

(d) For each deviation from an emission limitation and for each deviation from the requirements for work practice standards that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous opacity monitoring system or a continuous emission monitoring system to comply with the emission limitation or work practice standard in this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and the information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period and identification of the sources for which there was a deviation.

(2) Information on the number, date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(3) Information on the number, duration, and cause for monitor downtime incidents (including unknown cause, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks).

(4) The applicable operating limit or work practice standard from which you deviated and either the parameter monitor reading during the deviation or a description of how you deviated from the work practice standard.

(e) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a continuous opacity monitoring system or a continuous emission monitoring system to comply with the emission limitation, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, and in paragraphs (e)(2) through (13) of this section.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) The date and time that each continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(3) The date and time that each continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(4) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit during the deviation, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period (recorded in minutes for opacity and hours for gases and in the averaging period specified in the regulation for other types of emission limitations), and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(6) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period and into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(7) A summary of the total duration of downtime for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system during the reporting period (recorded in minutes for opacity and hours for gases and in the averaging time specified in the regulation for other types of standards), and the total duration of downtime for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(8) A breakdown of the total duration of downtime for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system during the reporting period into periods that are due to monitoring equipment malfunctions, non-monitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(9) An identification of each HAP that was monitored at the affected source.

(10) A brief description of the process units.

(11) The monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s).

(12) The date of the latest certification or audit for the continuous opacity monitoring system or continuous emission monitoring system.

(13) A description of any change in the continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(f) You also must include the information required in paragraphs (f)(1) through (2) of this section in each compliance report, if applicable.
