
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.1576 What records must I keep, in what form, and for how long?
######## i.e.,

(3) The performance evaluation plan as described in § 63.8(d)(2) for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you must keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).

(4) Requests for alternatives to the relative accuracy test for continuous emission monitoring systems as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i).

(5) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(c) You must keep the records in § 63.6(h) for visible emission observations.

(d) You must keep records required by Tables 6, 7, 13, and 14 of this subpart (for catalytic cracking units); Tables 20, 21, 27 and 28 of this subpart (for catalytic reforming units); Tables 34 and 35 of this subpart (for sulfur recovery units); and Table 39 of this subpart (for bypass lines) to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you.

(e) You must keep a current copy of your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan onsite and available for inspection. You also must keep records to show continuous compliance with the procedures in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan.

(f) You also must keep the records of any changes that affect emission control system performance including, but not limited to, the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the flame zone for a boiler or process heater.

(g) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review according to § 63.10(b)(1).

(h) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.

(i) You must keep each record on site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You can keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
