
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.1575 What reports must I submit and when?
######## e.g.,

(2) Any requested change in the applicability of an emission standard (you want to change from the PM standard to the Ni standard for catalytic cracking units or from the HCl concentration standard to percent reduction for catalytic reforming units) in your compliance report. You must include all information and data necessary to demonstrate compliance with the new emission standard selected and any other associated requirements.

(g) You may submit reports required by other regulations in place of or as part of the compliance report if they contain the required information.

(h) [Reserved]

(i) If the applicable permitting authority has approved a period of planned maintenance for your catalytic cracking unit according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section, you must include the following information in your compliance report.

(1) In the compliance report due for the 6-month period before the routine planned maintenance is to begin, you must include a full copy of your written request to the applicable permitting authority and written approval received from the applicable permitting authority.

(2) In the compliance report due after the routine planned maintenance is complete, you must include a description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6-month period, and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the emission limitations and monitoring requirements as a result of the approved routine planned maintenance.

(j) If you own or operate multiple catalytic cracking units that are served by a single wet scrubber emission control device (e.g., a Venturi scrubber), you may request the applicable permitting authority to approve a period of planned routine maintenance for the control device needed to meet requirements in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring plan. You must present data to the applicable permitting authority demonstrating that the period of planned maintenance results in overall emissions reductions. During this pre-approved time period, the emission control device may be taken out of service while maintenance is performed on the control device and/or one of the process units while the remaining process unit(s) continue to operate. During the period the emission control device is unable to operate, the emission limits, operating limits, and monitoring requirements applicable to the unit that is operating and the wet scrubber emission control device do not apply. The applicable permitting authority may require that you take specified actions to minimize emissions during the period of planned maintenance.

(1) You must submit a written request to the applicable permitting authority at least 6 months before the planned maintenance is scheduled to begin with a copy to the EPA Regional Administrator.

(2) Your written request must contain the information in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) A description of the planned routine maintenance to be performed during the next 6 months and why it is necessary.

(ii) The date the planned maintenance will begin and end.

(iii) A quantified estimate of the HAP and criteria pollutant emissions that will be emitted during the period of planned maintenance.

(iv) An analysis showing the emissions reductions resulting from the planned maintenance as opposed to delaying the maintenance until the next unit turnaround.

(v) Actions you will take to minimize emissions during the period of planned maintenance.
