
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.1575 What reports must I submit and when?
######## https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/electronic-reporting-tool-ert,i.e.,

(1) A copy of any performance test or performance evaluation of a CMS done during the reporting period on any affected unit, if applicable. The report must be included in the next semiannual compliance report. The copy must include a complete report for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point tested. For additional tests performed for a similar emission point using the same method, you must submit the results and any other information required, but a complete test report is not required. A complete test report contains a brief process description; a simplified flow diagram showing affected processes, control equipment, and sampling point locations; sampling site data; description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures; quality assurance procedures; record of operating conditions during the test; record of preparation of standards; record of calibrations; raw data sheets for field sampling; raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses; documentation of calculations; and any other information required by the test method. For data collected using test methods supported by the EPA's Electronic Reporting Tool (ERT) as listed on the EPA's ERT website () at the time of the test, you must submit the results in accordance with paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section by the date that you submit the compliance report, and instead of including a copy of the test report in the compliance report, you must include the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted in the compliance report. For performance evaluations of CMS measuring relative accuracy test audit (RATA) pollutants that are supported by the EPA's ERT as listed on the EPA's ERT website at the time of the evaluation, you must submit the results in accordance with paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section by the date that you submit the compliance report, and you must include the process unit where the CMS is installed, the parameter measured by the CMS, and the date that the performance evaluation was conducted in the compliance report. All other performance test and performance evaluation results (those not supported by EPA's ERT) must be reported in the compliance report.
