
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.1576 What records must I keep, in what form, and for how long?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) The records specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Record the date, time, and duration of each startup and/or shutdown period for which the facility elected to comply with the alternative standards in § 63.1564(a)(5)(ii) or § 63.1565(a)(5)(ii) or § 63.1568(a)(4)(ii) or (iii).

(ii) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time and duration of each failure.

(iii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(iv) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1570(c) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(3) Records of performance tests, performance evaluations, and opacity and visible emission observations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(b) For each continuous emission monitoring system and continuous opacity monitoring system, you must keep the records required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).

(2) Monitoring data for continuous opacity monitoring systems during a performance evaluation as required in § 63.6(h)(7)(i) and (ii).
