
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.138 Rule for the registration of air pollution sources and the reporting of emissions.
######## Information to include in initial registration and annual registration.

(3)Each initial registration and annual registration must include the following information if it applies:

(i) Name of the air pollution source and the nature of the business.

(ii) Street address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the air pollution source.

(iii) Name, mailing address, and telephone number of the owner or operator.

(iv) Name, mailing address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the local individual responsible for compliance with this section.

(v) Name and mailing address of the individual authorized to receive requests for data and information.

(vi) A description of the production processes, air pollution control equipment, and a related flow chart.

(vii) Identification of emission units and air pollutant-generating activities.

(viii) A plot plan showing the location of all emission units and air pollutant-generating activities. The plot plan must also show the property lines of the air pollution source, the height above grade of each emission release point, and the distance and direction to the nearest residential or commercial property.

(ix) Type and quantity of fuels, including the sulfur content of fuels, used on a daily, annual, and maximum hourly basis.

(x) Type and quantity of raw materials used or final product produced on a daily, annual, and maximum hourly basis.

(xi) Typical operating schedule, including number of hours per day, number of days per week, and number of weeks per year.

(xii) Estimates of the total actual emissions from the air pollution source for the following air pollutants: particulate matter, PM10, PM2.5, sulfur oxides (SO), nitrogen oxides (NO), carbon monoxide (CO), volatile organic compounds (VOC), lead (Pb) and lead compounds, ammonia (NH), fluorides (gaseous and particulate), sulfuric acid mist (HSO), hydrogen sulfide (HS), total reduced sulfur (TRS), and reduced sulfur compounds, including all calculations for the estimates.

(xiii) Estimated efficiency of air pollution control equipment under present or anticipated operating conditions.

(xiv) Any other information specifically requested by the Regional Administrator.
