
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.138 Rule for the registration of air pollution sources and the reporting of emissions.
######## Procedure for estimating emissions.

(4)The initial registration and annual registration must include an estimate of actual emissions taking into account equipment, operating conditions, and air pollution control measures. For an existing air pollution source that operated during the calendar year preceding the initial registration or annual registration submittal, the actual emissions are the actual rate of emissions for the preceding calendar year and must be calculated using the actual operating hours, production rates, in-place control equipment, and types of materials processed, stored, or combusted during the preceding calendar year. For a new air pollution source that is submitting its initial registration, the actual emissions are the estimated actual rate of emissions for the current calendar year. The emission estimates must be based upon actual test data or, in the absence of such data, upon procedures acceptable to the Regional Administrator. Any emission estimates submitted to the Regional Administrator must be verifiable using currently accepted engineering criteria. The following procedures are generally acceptable for estimating emissions from air pollution sources:

(i) Source-specific emission tests;

(ii) Mass balance calculations;

(iii) Published, verifiable emission factors that are applicable to the source;

(iv) Other engineering calculations; or

(v) Other procedures to estimate emissions specifically approved by the Regional Administrator.
