
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Publicly Owned Treatment Works
###### Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 POTW Treatment Plants
####### ยง 63.1586 What are the emission points and control requirements for a Group 1 or Group 2 POTW?
######## HAP fraction emitted standard.

(c)As an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, a new Group 1 and Group 2 POTW treatment plant may comply by demonstrating, for all emission points up to, but not including, the secondary influent pumping station or the secondary treatment units, that the annual rolling average HAP fraction emitted (calculated as specified in ยง 63.1588(c)(3)) does not exceed 0.014. You must demonstrate that for your POTW treatment plant, the sum of all HAP emissions from these units divided by the sum of all HAP mass loadings to the POTW treatment plant results in an annual rolling average of the HAP fraction emitted of no greater than 0.014. You may use any combination of pretreatment, wastewater treatment plant modifications, and control devices to achieve this performance standard.

(d) At all times, the POTW must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the POTW to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if the requirements of the applicable standard have been met. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator, which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
