
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Petroleum Refineries: Catalytic Cracking Units, Catalytic Reforming Units, and Sulfur Recovery Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUU of Part 63 - Determination of Metal Concentration on Catalyst Particles (Instrumental Analyzer Procedure)
####### i.e.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable to the determination of analyte concentrations on catalyst particles. This method is applicable for catalyst particles obtained from the fluid catalytic cracking unit (FCCU) regenerator (, equilibrium catalyst), from air pollution control systems operated for the FCCU catalyst regenerator vent (FCCU fines), from catalytic reforming units (CRU), and other processes as specified within an applicable regulation. This method is applicable only when specified within the regulation.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from the analytical method.

2.1 A representative sample of catalyst particles is collected, prepared, and analyzed for analyte concentration using either energy or wavelength dispersive X-ray fluorescent (XRF) spectrometry instrumental analyzers. In both types of XRF spectrometers, the instrument irradiates the sample with high energy (primary) x-rays and the elements in the sample absorb the x-rays and then re-emit secondary (fluorescent) x-rays of characteristic wavelengths for each element present. In energy dispersive XRF spectrometers, all secondary x-rays (of all wavelengths) enter the detector at once. The detector registers an electric current having a height proportional to the photon energy, and these pulses are then separated electronically, using a pulse analyzer. In wavelength dispersive XRF spectrometers, the secondary x-rays are dispersed spatially by crystal diffraction on the basis of wavelength. The crystal and detector are made to synchronously rotate and the detector then receives only one wavelength at a time. The intensity of the x-rays emitted by each element is proportional to its concentration, after correcting for matrix effects. For nickel compounds and total chlorides, the XRF instrument response is expected to be linear to analyte concentration. Performance specifications and test procedures are provided to ensure reliable data.

3.1 Measurement System. The total equipment required for the determination of analyte concentration. The measurement system consists of the following major subsystems:

3.1.1 Sample Preparation. That portion of a system used for one or more of the following: sample acquisition, sample transport, sample conditioning, or sample preparation prior to introducing the sample into the analyzer.

3.1.2 Analyzer. That portion of the system that senses the analyte to be measured and generates an output proportional to its concentration.

3.1.3 Data Recorder. A digital recorder or personal computer used for recording measurement data from the analyzer output.

3.2 Span. The upper limit of the gas concentration measurement range displayed on the data recorder.

3.3 Calibration Standards. Prepared catalyst samples or other samples of known analyte concentrations used to calibrate the analyzer and to assess calibration drift.

3.4 Energy Calibration Standard. Calibration standard, generally provided by the XRF instrument manufacturer, used for assuring accuracy of the energy scale.

3.5 Accuracy Assessment Standard. Prepared catalyst sample or other sample of known analyte concentrations used to assess analyzer accuracy error.

3.6 Zero Drift. The difference in the measurement system output reading from the initial value for zero concentration level calibration standard after a stated period of operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place.

3.7 Calibration Drift. The difference in the measurement system output reading from the initial value for the mid-range calibration standard after a stated period of operation during which no unscheduled maintenance, repair, or adjustment took place.

3.8 Spectral Interferences. Analytical interferences and excessive biases caused by elemental peak overlap, escape peak, and sum peak interferences between elements in the samples.

3.9 Calibration Curve. A graph or other systematic method of establishing the relationship between the analyzer response and the actual analyte concentration introduced to the analyzer.

3.10 Analyzer Accuracy Error. The difference in the measurement system output reading and the ideal value for the accuracy assessment standard.

4.1 Spectral interferences with analyte line intensity determination are accounted for within the method program. No action is required by the XRF operator once these interferences have been addressed within the method.

4.2 The X-ray production efficiency is affected by particle size for the very lightest elements. However, particulate matter (PM) 2.5 particle size effects are substantially <1 percent for most elements. The calibration standards should be prepared with material of similar particle size or be processed (ground) to produce material of similar particle size as the catalyst samples to be analyzed. No additional correction for particle size is performed. Alternatively, the sample can be fused in order to eliminate any potential particle size effects.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 X-ray Exposure. The XRF uses X-rays; XRF operators should follow instrument manufacturer's guidelines to protect from accidental exposure to X-rays when the instrument is in operation.

5.3 Beryllium Window. In most XRF units, a beryllium (Be) window is present to separate the sample chamber from the X-ray tube and detector. The window is very fragile and brittle. Do not allow sample or debris to fall onto the window, and avoid using compressed air to clean the window because it will cause the window to rupture. If the window should rupture, note that Be metal is poisonous. Use extreme caution when collecting pieces of Be and consult the instrument manufacturer for advice on cleanup of the broken window and replacement.

6.1 Measurement System. Use any measurement system that meets the specifications of this method listed in section 13. The typical components of the measurement system are described below.

6.1.1 Sample Mixer/Mill. Stainless steel, or equivalent to grind/mix catalyst and binders, if used, to produce uniform particle samples.

6.1.2 Sample Press/Fluxer. Stainless steel, or equivalent to produce pellets of sufficient size to fill analyzer sample window, or alternatively, a fusion device capable of preparing a fused disk of sufficient size to fill analyzer sample window.

6.1.3 Analytical Balance. +/-0.0001 gram accuracy for weighing prepared samples (pellets).

6.1.4 Analyzer. An XRF spectrometer to determine the analyte concentration in the prepared sample. The analyzer must meet the applicable performance specifications in section 13.
