
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Publicly Owned Treatment Works
###### Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 POTW Treatment Plants
####### ยง 63.1586 What are the emission points and control requirements for a Group 1 or Group 2 POTW?
######## Cover and control standard.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, new Group 1 and Group 2 POTW treatment plants must install covers on the emission points up to, but not including, the secondary influent pumping station or the secondary treatment units. These emission points are treatment units that include, but are not limited to, influent waste stream conveyance channels, bar screens, grit chambers, grinders, pump stations, aerated feeder channels, primary clarifiers, primary effluent channels, and primary screening stations. In addition, all covered units, except primary clarifiers, must have the air in the headspace underneath the cover ducted to a control device in accordance with the standards for closed-vent systems and control devices in ยง 63.693 of subpart DD-National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants from Off-site Waste and Recovery Operations of this part, except you may substitute visual inspections for leak detection rather than Method 21 of appendix A-7 of part 60 of this chapter. Covers must meet the following requirements:

(1) Covers must be tightly fitted and designed and operated to prevent exposure of the wastewater to the atmosphere. This includes, but is not limited to, the absence of visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the roof sections or between the roof and the supporting wall; broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices; and broken or missing hatches, access covers, caps, or other closure devices.

(2) If wastewater is in a treatment unit, each opening in the cover must be maintained in a closed, sealed position, unless plant personnel are present and conducting wastewater or sludge sampling, or equipment inspection, maintenance, or repair.
