
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Publicly Owned Treatment Works
###### Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 POTW Treatment Plants
####### § 63.1590 What reports must I submit?

(a) An existing Group 1 POTW must meet the reporting requirements specified in the appropriate NESHAP for the industrial user(s).

(b) A new Group 1 or Group 2 POTW must submit annual reports containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, if applicable. You must submit annual reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (b)(5) of this section. For new units, the initial annual report is due 15 months after your POTW becomes subject to the requirements in this subpart and must cover the first 12 months of operation after your POTW becomes subject to the requirements of this subpart. Subsequent annual reports are due by the same date each year as the initial annual report and must contain information for the 12-month period following the 12-month period included in the previous annual report.

(1) The general information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section must be included in all reports.

(i) The company name, POTW treatment plant name, and POTW treatment plant address, including county where the POTW is located; and

(ii) Beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(2) If you use covers to comply with the requirements of § 63.1586(b), you must submit the following:

(i) The dates of each visual inspection conducted;

(ii) The defects found during each visual inspection; and

(iii) For each defect found during a visual inspection, how the defects were repaired, whether the repair has been completed, and either the date each repair was completed or the date each repair is expected to be completed.

(3) If you comply with the HAP fraction emitted standard in § 63.1586(c), you must submit each value of the annual rolling average HAP fraction emitted as calculated in § 63.1588(c)(3)(vii) for the period covered by the annual report. Identify each value by the final month included in the calculation.

(4) If a source fails to meet an applicable standard, report such events in the annual report. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the start date, start time, and duration of each failure, as well as a list of the affected sources or equipment. If you comply with the cover and control standard in § 63.1586(b), for each failure, the report must include the percent control achieved. If you comply with the HAP fraction emitted standard in § 63.1586(c), for each failure, the report must include the HAP fraction emitted. You must include an estimate of the tons per year of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions in the report.
