
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Publicly Owned Treatment Works
###### Requirements for Group 1 and Group 2 POTW Treatment Plants
####### § 63.1589 What records must I keep?

(a) To comply with the cover and control standard specified in § 63.1586(b), you must prepare and maintain the records required in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) A record for each treatment unit inspection required by § 63.1588(a). You must include a treatment unit identification number (or other unique identification description as selected by you) and the date of inspection.

(2) For each defect detected during inspections required by § 63.1588(a), you must record the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, the corrective action taken to repair the defect, and the date the repair to correct the defect is completed.

(3) If repair of the defect is delayed as described in § 63.1588(a)(3), you must also record the reason for the delay and the date you expect to complete the repair.

(4) If you own or operate a control device used to meet the requirements for § 63.1586(b), you must comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.696(a), (b), (g), and (h).

(b) To comply with the HAP fraction emitted standard specified in § 63.1586(c), you must prepare and maintain the records required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) A record of the methods and data used to determine your POTW treatment plant's annual HAP loading and HAP emissions as determined in § 63.1588(c)(1) and (2) as part of your Inspection and Monitoring Plan;

(2) A record of the methods and data used to determine that your POTW treatment plant meets the HAP fraction emitted standard of 0.014 or less, as determined in § 63.1588(c)(3) as part of your Inspection and Monitoring Plan; and

(3) A record of the methods and data that demonstrates that your POTW treatment plant is in continuous compliance with the requirements of § 63.1588(c)(4) to calculate annual emissions as specified in your Inspection and Monitoring Plan.

(c) The POTW must record the malfunction information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure, record the date, time, and duration of the failure.

(2) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the tons per year of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.1583(d) or § 63.1586(d) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(d) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
