
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.139 Rule for non-Title V operating permits.
######## What are the procedures for obtaining an owner-requested operating permit?

(c)(1) The owner or operator of an air pollution source who wishes to obtain a Federally-enforceable limitation on the source's actual emissions or potential to emit must submit an application to the Regional Administrator requesting such limitation. The application must be submitted on forms provided by the Regional Administrator and contain the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Within 60 days after receipt of an application, the Regional Administrator will determine if it contains the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section and if so, will deem it complete for the purpose of preparing a draft permit to operate. If the Regional Administrator determines that the application is incomplete, it will be returned to the owner or operator along with a description of the necessary information that must be submitted for the application to be deemed complete.

(3) The Regional Administrator will prepare a draft permit to operate and a draft technical support document that describes the proposed limitation and its effect on the actual emissions and/or potential to emit of the air pollution source.

(4) The Regional Administrator will provide a copy of the draft permit to operate and draft technical support document to the owner or operator of the air pollution source and will provide an opportunity for the owner or operator to meet with EPA and discuss the proposed limitations.

(5) The Regional Administrator will provide an opportunity for public comment on the draft permit to operate as follows:

(i) A copy of the draft permit to operate, the draft technical support document, the permit application, and all other supporting materials will be made available for public inspection in at least one location in the area affected by the air pollution source.

(ii) A notice will be made by prominent advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the air pollution source of the availability of the draft permit to operate and supporting materials and of the opportunity to comment. Where possible, notices will also be made in the Tribal newspaper.

(iii) Copies of the notice will be provided to the owner or operator of the air pollution source, the Tribal governing body, and the Tribal, State, and local air pollution authorities having jurisdiction in areas outside of the Indian reservation potentially impacted by the air pollution source.

(iv) A 30-day period for submittal of public comments will be provided starting upon the date of publication of the notice. If requested, the Regional Administrator may hold a public hearing and/or extend the public comment period for up to an additional 30 days.

(6) After the close of the public comment period, the Regional Administrator will review all comments received and prepare a final permit to operate and final technical support document. The final technical support document will include a response to all comments received during the public comment period.

(7) The final permit to operate and final technical support document will be sent to the owner or operator of the air pollution source and will be made available at all of the locations where the draft permit was made available. In addition, the final permit to operate and final technical support document will be sent to all persons who provided comments on the draft permit to operate.

(8) The final permit to operate will be a final agency action for purposes of administrative appeal and judicial review.
