
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### General Rules for Application to Indian Reservations in EPA Region 10
####### ยง 49.139 Rule for non-Title V operating permits.
######## What must the owner or operator of an air pollution source include in an application for a Federally-enforceable limitation?

(d)(1) The owner or operator of an air pollution source that wishes to obtain a Federally-enforceable limitation must submit to the Regional Administrator an application, on forms provided by the Regional Administrator, for a permit to operate that includes the following information:

(i) Name of the air pollution source and the nature of the business.

(ii) Street address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the air pollution source.

(iii) Name, mailing address, and telephone number of the owner or operator.

(iv) Name, mailing address, telephone number, and facsimile number of the local individual responsible for compliance with this section.

(v) Name and mailing address of the individual authorized to receive requests for data and information.

(vi) For each air pollutant and for all emission units and air pollutant-generating activities to be covered by a limitation:

(A) The proposed limitation and a description of its effect on actual emissions or the potential to emit. Proposed limitations may include, but are not limited to, emission limitations, production limits, operational restrictions, fuel or raw material specifications, and/or requirements for installation and operation of emission controls. Proposed limitations must have a reasonably short averaging period, taking into consideration the operation of the air pollution source and the methods to be used for demonstrating compliance.

(B) Proposed testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements to be used to demonstrate and assure compliance with the proposed limitation.

(C) A description of the production processes and a related flow chart.

(D) Identification of emission units and air pollutant-generating activities.

(E) Type and quantity of fuels and/or raw materials used.

(F) Description and estimated efficiency of air pollution control equipment under present or anticipated operating conditions.

(G) Estimates of the current actual emissions and current potential to emit, including all calculations for the estimates.

(H) Estimates of the allowable emissions and/or potential to emit that would result from compliance with the proposed limitation, including all calculations for the estimates.

(vii) Any other information specifically requested by the Regional Administrator.

(2) Estimates of actual emissions must be based upon actual test data, or in the absence of such data, upon procedures acceptable to the Regional Administrator. Any emission estimates submitted to the Regional Administrator must be verifiable using currently accepted engineering criteria. The following procedures are generally acceptable for estimating emissions from air pollution sources:

(i) Source-specific emission tests;

(ii) Mass balance calculations;

(iii) Published, verifiable emission factors that are applicable to the source;

(iv) Other engineering calculations; or

(v) Other procedures to estimate emissions specifically approved by the Regional Administrator.

(3) All applications for a permit to operate must include a certification by the owner or operator as to the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the information. This certification must state that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information are true, accurate, and complete.
