
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### ยง 63.1623 What are the emissions standards for new, reconstructed and existing facilities?
####### Process fugitive emissions

(b). (1) You must install, operate and maintain a capture system that is designed to collect 95 percent or more of the emissions from process fugitive emissions sources and convey the collected emissions to a control device that is demonstrated to meet the applicable emission limit specified in paragraph (a)(1) or (c) of this section.

(2) The determination of the overall capture must be demonstrated as required by ยง 63.1624(a).

(3) Unless you meet the criteria of paragragh (b)(3)(iii) of this section, you must not cause the emissions exiting from a shop building to exceed an average of 8 percent opacity over a furnace or MOR process cycle.

(i) This 8 percent opacity requirement is determined by averaging the individual opacity readings observed during the furnace or MOR process cycle.

(ii) An individual opacity reading shall be determined as the average of 24 consecutive images recorded at 15-second intervals with the opacity values from each individual digital image rounded to the nearest 5 percent.

(iii) If the average opacity from the shop building is greater than 8 percent opacity during an observed furnace or MOR process cycle, the opacity of two more additional furnace or MOR process cycles must be observed within 7 days and the average of the individual opacity readings during the three observation periods must be less than 8 percent opacity.

(iv) At no time during operation may the average of any two consecutive individual opacity readings be greater than 20 percent opacity.
