
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### § 49.151 Program overview.
######## What is the purpose of this program?

(b)This program has the following purposes:

(1) It satisfies the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(C) of the Act by establishing a pre-construction permitting program for all new and modified minor sources (minor sources) and minor modifications at major sources located in Indian country and by establishing a Federal Implementation Plan (§§ 49.101 through 49.105) for true minor sources in the oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing segments that are located in Indian country.

(2) It establishes a registration system that will allow the reviewing authority to develop and maintain a record of minor source emissions in Indian country.

(3) It provides a mechanism for an otherwise major source to voluntarily accept restrictions on its potential to emit to become a synthetic minor source. This mechanism may also be used by an otherwise major source of HAPs to voluntarily accept restrictions on its potential to emit to become a synthetic minor HAP source. Such restrictions must be enforceable as a practical matter.

(4) It provides an additional mechanism for case-by-case maximum achievable control technology (MACT) determinations for those major sources of HAPs subject to such determinations under section 112(g)(2) of the Act.

(5) It sets forth the criteria and procedures that the reviewing authority (as defined in § 49.152(d)) will use to administer the program.
