
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### § 63.1625 What are the performance test and compliance requirements for new, reconstructed, and existing facilities?
####### Compliance demonstration with shop building opacity standards

(d). (1)(i) If you are subject to § 63.1623(b), you must conduct opacity observations of the shop building to demonstrate compliance with the applicable opacity standards according to § 63.6(h)(5), which addresses conducting opacity or visible emission observations.

(ii) You must conduct the opacity observations according to ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), for a period that includes at least one complete furnace process cycle for each furnace.

(iii) For a shop building that contains more than one furnace, you must conduct the opacity observations according to ASTM D7520-16 for a period that includes one tapping period from each furnace located in the shop building.

(iv) You must conduct the opacity observations according to ASTM D7520-16 for a 1-hour period that includes at least one pouring for each MOR located in the shop building.

(v) You must conduct the opacity observations at least once per week for each shop building containing one or more furnaces or MOR.

(vi) You may reduce the frequency of observations to once per month for each shop building that demonstrates compliance with the weekly 8-percent opacity limit for 26 consecutive complete observations that span a period of at least 26 weeks. Any monthly observation in excess of 8-percent opacity will return that shop building opacity observation to a weekly compliance schedule. You may reduce the frequency of observations again to once per month for each shop building that demonstrates compliance with the weekly 8-percent opacity limit after another 26 consecutive complete observations that span a period of at least 26 weeks.

(2) You must determine shop building opacity operating parameters based on either monitoring data collected during the compliance demonstration or established in an engineering assessment.

(i) If you choose to establish parameters based on the initial compliance demonstration, you must simultaneously monitor parameter values for one of the following: The capture system fan motor amperes and all capture system damper positions, the total volumetric flow rate to the air pollution control device and all capture system damper positions, or volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood that comprises the capture system. Subsequently you must monitor these parameters according to § 63.1626(g) and ensure they remain within 10 percent of the value recorded during the compliant opacity readings.

(ii) If you choose to establish parameters based on an engineering assessment, then a design analysis shall include, for example, specifications, drawings, schematics and ventilation system diagrams prepared by the owner or operator or capture or control system manufacturer or vendor that describes the shop building opacity system ventilation design based on acceptable engineering texts. The design analysis shall address vent stream characteristics and ventilation system design operating parameters such as fan amps, damper position, flow rate and/or other specified parameters.

(iii) You may petition the Administrator to reestablish these parameter ranges whenever you can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the electric arc furnace or MOR operating conditions upon which the parameter ranges were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of these parameter ranges determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance must be maintained at the appropriate level for each applicable period.

(3) You will demonstrate continuing compliance with the opacity standards by following the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.1626(g) and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.1628(b)(5).
