
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### § 49.151 Program overview.
######## Synthetic minor sources.

(ii)(A) If you wish to begin construction of a new synthetic minor source and/or a new synthetic minor HAP source or a modification at an existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source on or after August 30, 2011, you must obtain a permit pursuant to § 49.158 prior to beginning construction.

(B) If your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source was established pursuant to the FIPs applicable to the Indian reservations in Idaho, Oregon and Washington or was established under an EPA-approved rule or permit program limiting potential to emit, you do not need to take any action under this program unless you propose a modification for this existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source, on or after August 30, 2011. For these modifications, you need to obtain a permit pursuant to § 49.158 prior to beginning construction.

(C) If your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source was established under a permit with enforceable emissions limitations issued pursuant to part 71 of this chapter, the reviewing authority has the discretion to require you to submit a permit application for a synthetic minor source permit under this program by September 4, 2012 and pursuant to § 49.158, to require you to submit a permit application for a synthetic minor source permit under this program (pursuant to § 49.158) at the same time that you apply to renew your part 71 permit or to allow you to continue to maintain synthetic minor status through your part 71 permit. If the reviewing authority requires you to obtain a synthetic minor source permit and/or synthetic minor HAP source permit under this program (pursuant to § 49.158) it also has the discretion to require any additional requirements, including control technology requirements, based on the specific circumstances of the source.

(D) If your existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source was established through a mechanism other than those described in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(B) and (C) of this section, you must submit an application pursuant to § 49.158 for a synthetic minor source permit under this program by September 4, 2012. The reviewing authority has the discretion to require any additional requirements, including control technology requirements, based on the specific circumstances of the source.
