
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### § 49.151 Program overview.
######## True minor sources.

(iii)(A) If you own or operate an existing true minor source in Indian country (as defined in § 49.152(d)), you must register your source with the Reviewing Authority in your area by March 1, 2013. If your true minor source is not engaged in an oil and natural gas activity and you commence construction after August 30, 2011, and before September 2, 2014, you must also register your source with the Reviewing Authority in your area within 90 days after the source begins operation. If your true minor source is engaged in an oil and natural gas activity and you commence construction after August 30, 2011, and before October 3, 2016, you must register your source with the Reviewing Authority in your area within 90 days after the source begins operation. You are exempt from these registration requirements if your true minor source is subject to § 49.138.

(B) If your true minor source is not engaged in an oil and natural gas activity and you wish to begin construction of a new true minor source or a minor modification at an existing true minor source on or after September 2, 2014, you must first obtain a permit pursuant to §§ 49.154 and 49.155 (or a general permit/permit by rule pursuant to § 49.156, if applicable). If your true minor source is an oil and natural gas source, as defined in § 49.102, and you wish to begin construction of a new true minor source or a minor modification at an existing true minor source on or after October 3, 2016, you must either comply with the Federal Implementation Plan for sources in the oil and natural gas production and natural gas processing segments of the oil and natural gas sector that are located in Indian country (§§ 49.101 through 49.105) from the day you begin construction or opt out of those requirements pursuant to § 49.101(b)(2) and instead obtain a minor source permit pursuant to §§ 49.154 and 49.155 before beginning construction. Alternatively, you may be required by the EPA, pursuant to § 49.101(b)(3), to obtain a minor source permit pursuant to §§ 49.154 and 49.155 before beginning construction. All proposed new sources or modifications of existing sources are also subject to the registration requirements of § 49.160, except for sources that are subject to § 49.138.

(2) The provisions of this program or portions of this program cease to apply in an area covered by an EPA-approved Tribal implementation plan on the date that our approval of that implementation plan becomes effective, provided that the implementation plan includes provisions that comply with the requirements of section 110(a)(2)(C) of the Act for the construction and modification of minor sources and minor modifications at major sources. Permits previously issued under this program will remain in effect and be enforceable as a practical matter until and unless the Tribe issues new permits to these sources based on the provisions of the EPA-approved Tribal implementation plan.
