
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### ยง 63.1656 Performance testing, test methods, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Test methods.

(b)The following test methods in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter must be used to determine compliance with the emission standards.

(1) Method 1 to select the sampling port location and the number of traverse points.

(2) Method 2 to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(3) Method 3 to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.

(4) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(5) Method 5 to determine the particulate matter concentration of the stack gas for negative pressure baghouses and positive pressure baghouses with stacks.

(6) Method 5D to determine particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate of the stack gas for positive pressure baghouses without stacks.

(7) Method 9 of appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine opacity. ASTM D7520-16, "Standard Test Method for Determining the Opacity of a Plume in the Outdoor Ambient Atmosphere" may be used (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14) with the following conditions:

(i) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).

(ii) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.

(iii) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in ยง 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.

(iv) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.

(v) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator and DCOT vendor.

(8) The owner or operator may use equivalent alternative measurement methods approved by the Administrator following the procedures described in ยง 63.7(f) of subpart A.
