
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### § 63.1656 Performance testing, test methods, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Compliance demonstration with opacity standards.

(d)(1)(i) The owner or operator subject to § 63.1653 must conduct initial opacity observations of the shop building to demonstrate compliance with the applicable opacity standards according to § 63.6(h)(5), which addresses the conduct of opacity or visible emission observations.

(ii) In conducting the opacity observations of the shop building, the observer must limit his or her field of view to the area of the shop building roof monitor that corresponds to the placement of the affected submerged arc furnaces.

(iii) The owner or operator must conduct the opacity observations according to EPA Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, for a minimum of 60 minutes.

(2)(i) When demonstrating initial compliance with the shop building opacity standard, as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, the owner or operator must simultaneously establish parameter values for one of the following: the control system fan motor amperes and all capture system damper positions, the total volumetric flow rate to the air pollution control device and all capture system damper positions, or volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood that comprises the capture system.

(ii) The owner or operator may petition the Administrator to reestablish these parameters whenever he or she can demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that the submerged arc furnace operating conditions upon which the parameters were previously established are no longer applicable. The values of these parameters determined during the most recent demonstration of compliance must be maintained at the appropriate level for each applicable period.

(3) The owner or operator must demonstrate continuing compliance with the opacity standards by following the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.1657(c) and the reporting and recordkeeping requirements specified in §§ 63.1659(b)(4) and 63.1660(b).
