
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### § 63.1656 Performance testing, test methods, and compliance demonstrations.
####### Compliance demonstration with the emission standards.

(c)(1) The owner or operator must conduct an initial performance test for air pollution control devices or vent stacks subject to § 63.1652(a) through (e) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission standards.

(2) The owner or operator must conduct annual performance tests for the air pollution control devices and vent stacks associated with the submerged arc furnaces, with the exception of any air pollution control devices that serve tapping emissions combined with non-furnace emissions, such as the MOR process or equipment associated with crushing and screening. Also excluded are air pollution control devices that serve dedicated non-furnace emissions, such as the MOR process or equipment associated with crushing and screening. The results of these annual tests will be used to demonstrate compliance with the emission standards in § 63.1652(a) through (e), as applicable.

(3) Following development, and approval, if required, of the site-specific test plan, the owner or operator must conduct a performance test for each air pollution control device or vent stack to measure particulate matter and determine compliance with the applicable standard.

(i) An owner or operator of sources subject to the particulate matter concentration standards in § 63.1652(a)(2), (d), or (e), must determine compliance as follows:

(A) Determine the particulate matter concentration using Method 5 or 5D, as applicable.

(B) Compliance is demonstrated if the average concentration for the three runs comprising the performance test does not exceed the standard.

(ii) An owner or operator of sources subject to the particulate mass rate standards in § 63.1652(b) or (c) must determine compliance as follows:

(A) Determine the particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate using Method 5 or 5D, as applicable.

(B) Compute the mass rate (E) of particulate matter for each run using the following equation:

(C) Compliance is demonstrated if the average of the mass rates for the three runs comprising the performance test does not exceed the standard.

(iii) An owner or operator of sources subject to the particulate matter process-weighted rate standard in § 63.1652(a)(1) must determine compliance as follows:

(A) Determine particulate matter concentration and volumetric flow rate using Method 5 or 5D, as applicable.

(B) Compute the process-weighted mass rate (E) of particulate matter for each run using the following equation:

(C) Compliance is demonstrated if the average process-weighted mass rate for the three runs comprising the performance test does not exceed the standard.

(4) If a venturi scrubber is used to comply with the emission standards, the owner or operator must establish as a site-specific operating parameter the lowest average pressure drop on any individual complying run in the three runs constituting any compliant test. The pressure drop must be monitored at least every 5 minutes during the test and hourly averages recorded.

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) The owner or operator may augment the data obtained under paragraph (a)(4) of this section by conducting multiple performance tests to establish a range of compliant operating parameter values. The lowest value of this range would be selected as the operating parameter monitoring value. The use of historic compliance data may be used to establish the compliant operating parameter value if the previous values were recorded during performance tests using the same test methods specified in this subpart and established as required in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.
