
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### § 63.1657 Monitoring requirements.
####### Shop opacity.

(c)The owner or operator subject to the opacity standards in § 63.1653 must comply with one of the monitoring options in paragraphs (c)(1), (c)(2) or (c)(3) of this section. The selected option must be consistent with that selected during the initial performance test described in § 63.1656(d)(2). Alternatively, the owner or operator may use the provisions of § 63.8(f) to request approval to use an alternative monitoring method.

(1) The owner or operator must check and record the control system fan motor amperes and capture system damper positions once per shift.

(2) The owner or operator must install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood.

(3) The owner or operator must install, calibrate, and maintain a monitoring device that continuously records the volumetric flow rate at the inlet of the air pollution control device and must check and record the capture system damper positions once per shift.

(4) The flow rate monitoring devices must meet the following requirements:

(i) Be installed in an appropriate location in the exhaust duct such that reproducible flow rate monitoring will result.

(ii) Have an accuracy +/-10 percent over its normal operating range and be calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(5) The Administrator may require the owner or operator to demonstrate the accuracy of the monitoring device(s) relative to Methods 1 and 2 of appendix A of part 60 of this chapter.

(6) Failure to maintain the appropriate capture system parameters (fan motor amperes, flow rate, and/or damper positions) establishes the need to initiate corrective action as soon as practicable after the monitoring excursion in order to minimize excess emissions.

(7) Failure to monitor or failure to take corrective action under the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section would be a violation of the general duty to operate in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices that minimizes emissions per § 63.1652(f).
