
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### § 49.151 Program overview.
######## What is the process for issuing permits under this program?

(e)For the reviewing authority to issue a final permit decision under this program (other than a general permit under § 49.156 or a synthetic minor source permit under § 49.158), all the actions listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section need to be completed. The processes for issuing general permits and synthetic minor source permits are set out in § 49.156 and § 49.158, respectively.

(1) You must submit a permit application that meets the requirements of § 49.154(a).

(2) The reviewing authority determines completeness of the permit application as provided in § 49.154(b) within 45 days of receiving the application (60 days for minor modifications at major sources).

(3) The reviewing authority determines the appropriate emission limitations and permit conditions for your affected emissions units under § 49.154(c).

(4) The reviewing authority may require you to submit an Air Quality Impact Analysis (AQIA) if it has reason to be concerned that the construction of your minor source or modification would cause or contribute to a NAAQS or PSD increment violation.

(5) If an AQIA is submitted, the reviewing authority determines that the new or modified source will not cause or contribute to a NAAQS or PSD increment violation.

(6) The reviewing authority develops a draft permit that meets the permit content requirements of § 49.155(a).

(7) The reviewing authority provides for public participation, including a 30-day period for public comment, according to the requirements of § 49.157.

(8) The reviewing authority either issues a final permit that meets the requirements of § 49.155(a) or denies the permit and provides reasons for the denial, within 135 days (or within 1 year for minor modifications at major sources) after the date the application is deemed complete and all additional information necessary to make an informed decision has been provided.
