
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### ยง 63.1657 Monitoring requirements.
####### Baghouses.

(a)(1) For the baghouses serving the submerged arc furnaces, the metal oxygen refining process, and crushing and screening operations, the owner or operator must observe on a daily basis for the presence of any visible emissions.

(2) In addition to the daily visible emissions observation, the owner or operator must conduct the following activities:

(i) Daily monitoring of pressure drop across each baghouse cell, or across the baghouse if it is not possible to monitor each cell individually, to ensure the pressure drop is within the normal operating range identified in the baghouse maintenance plan.

(ii) Weekly confirmation that dust is being removed from hoppers through visual inspection, or equivalent means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.

(iii) Daily check of compressed air supply for pulse-jet baghouses.

(iv) An appropriate methodology for monitoring cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation.

(v) Monthly check of bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through visual inspection or equivalent means.

(vi) Quarterly visual check of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses to ensure that the bags are not kinked (kneed or bent) or laying on their sides. Such checks are not required for shaker-type baghouses using self-tensioning (spring loaded) devices.

(vii) Quarterly confirmation of the physical integrity of the baghouse structure through visual inspection of the baghouse interior for air leaks.

(viii) Semiannual inspection of fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through visual inspection, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.

(3) In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed submerged arc furnace must install and continuously operate a bag leak detection system if the furnace primary and/or tapping emissions are ducted to a negative pressure baghouse or to a positive pressure baghouse equipped with a stack. The bag leak detection system must meet the following requirements:

(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.

(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings, and the owner or operator must continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system.

(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level. The alarm must be located where it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.

(iv) Each bag leak detection system that works based on the triboelectric effect must be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained consistent with the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency guidance document "Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance" (EPA-454/R-98-015). Other bag leak detection systems must be installed, calibrated, and maintained consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations.

(v) The initial adjustment of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.

(vi) Following initial adjustment, the owner or operator must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the maintenance plan required under ยง 63.1655(b). In no event must the sensitivity be increased by more than 100 percent or decreased more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless a responsible official certifies the baghouse has been inspected and found to be in good operating condition.

(vii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(4) As part of the maintenance plan required by ยง 63.1655(b), the owner or operator must develop and implement corrective action procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm (for baghouses equipped with such a system), the observation of visible emissions from the baghouse, or the indication through the periodic baghouse system inspections that the system is not operating properly. The owner or operator must initiate corrective action as soon as practicable after the occurrence of the observation or event indicating a problem.

(5) The corrective action plan must include procedures used to determine the cause of an alarm or other indications of problems as well as actions to minimize emissions. These actions may include the following:

(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in emissions.

(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media.

(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.

(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment.

(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe, or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system.

(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate matter emissions.

(6) Failure to monitor or failure to take corrective action under the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section would be a violation of the general duty to operate in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices that minimizes emissions per ยง 63.1652(f).
