
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### § 63.1658 Notification requirements.

(a) As required by § 63.9(b) of subpart A, unless otherwise specified in this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the following written notifications to the Administrator:

(1) The owner or operator of an area source that subsequently becomes subject to the requirements of the standard must provide notification to the applicable permitting authority as required by § 63.9(b)(1).

(2) As required by § 63.9(b)(2), the owner or operator of an affected source that has an initial startup before the effective date of the standard must notify the Administrator that the source is subject to the requirements of the standard. The notification must be submitted no later than 120 calendar days after May 20, 1999 (or within 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this standard) and must contain the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v).

(3) As required by § 63.9(b)(3), the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed affected source, or a source that has been reconstructed such that it is an affected source, that has an initial startup after the effective date and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is not required under § 63.5(d), must notify the Administrator in writing that the source is subject to the standards no later than 120 days after initial startup. The notification must contain the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v), delivered or postmarked with the notification required in § 63.9(b)(5).

(4) As required by § 63.9(b)(4), the owner or operator of a new or reconstructed major affected source that has an initial startup after the effective date of this standard and for which an application for approval of construction or reconstruction is required under § 63.5(d) must provide the information specified in § 63.9(b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(v).

(5) As required by § 63.9(b)(5), the owner or operator who, after the effective date of this standard, intends to construct a new affected source or reconstruct an affected source subject to this standard, or reconstruct a source such that it becomes an affected source subject to this standard, must notify the Administrator, in writing, of the intended construction or reconstruction.
