
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Ferroalloys Production: Ferromanganese and Silicomanganese
###### ยง 63.1660 Recordkeeping requirements.
####### Specific recordkeeping requirements.

(b)(1) In addition to the general records required by paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator must maintain records for 5 years from the date of each record of:

(i) Records of pressure drop across the venturi if a venturi scrubber is used.

(ii) Records of manufacturer certification that monitoring devices are accurate to within 5 percent (unless otherwise specified in this subpart) and of calibrations performed at the manufacturer's recommended frequency, or at a frequency consistent with good engineering practice, or as experience dictates.

(iii) Records of bag leak detection system output.

(iv) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, and the date and time the alarm was corrected.

(v) Copy of the written maintenance plan for each air pollution control device.

(vi) Copy of the fugitive dust control plan.

(vii) Records of each maintenance inspection and repair, replacement, or other corrective action.

(2) All records for the most recent 2 years of operation must be maintained on site. Records for the previous 3 years may be maintained off site.
