
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Manufacturing of Nutritional Yeast
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2150 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the applicable emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart at all times, and demonstrate compliance according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) To demonstrate compliance with emission limitations by using the 98-Percent Option, you must follow the procedures of § 63.2171(b).

(2) To demonstrate compliance with emission limitations by using the Average Option, you must follow the procedures of § 63.2171(c).

(3) To demonstrate compliance with emission limitations by using the Batch Option, you must follow the procedures of § 63.2171(d).

(b) You must monitor VOC concentration continuously for each batch by using the applicable monitoring method in Table 8 to this subpart.

(c) If the date upon which you must demonstrate initial compliance as specified in § 63.2160 falls after the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.2133, then you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the continuous emission monitoring systems and the process and emissions control equipment during the period between those dates.

(d) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether an affected source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.
