
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Manufacturing of Nutritional Yeast
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.2133 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, then you must comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source before May 21, 2001, then you must comply with this subpart no later than May 21, 2001.

(2) If you start up your affected source on or after May 21, 2001, then you must comply with this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, then you must comply with this subpart no later than May 21, 2004.

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions, or its potential to emit, so that it becomes a major source of HAP, then paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) Any portion of the existing facility that is a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) All other parts of the affected source must be in compliance with this subpart by no later than 1 year after it becomes a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in ยง 63.2180 according to the schedule in ยง 63.2180 and in subpart A of this part.
