
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Manufacturing of Nutritional Yeast
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2181 What reports must I submit and when?
######## e.g.,

(1) The first compliance report must include the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section. If you are demonstrating compliance with an emission limitation using a 12-month calculation period (the Average Option), then the first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133 and ending on either June 30 or December 31 (use whichever date is the first date following the end of the first 12 calendar months after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133). If you are demonstrating compliance with an emission limitation using the Batch Option, then the first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133 and ending on either June 30 or December 31 (use whichever date is the first date following the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2133).

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first compliance reporting period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. Each subsequent compliance report must include the information specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(c) The compliance report must contain the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the 98-Percent Option to comply, the percentage of batches that are within-concentration batches.

(5) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the 98-Percent Option to comply and your affected source fails to meet an applicable standard, the information for each batch for which BAVOC exceeded the applicable maximum VOC concentration in Table 1 to this subpart and whether the batch was in production during a period of malfunction or during another period.

(6) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the Average Option to comply or for any reporting period for which you are using the Batch Option to comply, and your affected source meets an applicable standard, the information in paragraph (c)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, depending on the compliance option selected from Table 1 to this subpart.

(i) If you are using the Average Option to comply, the average BAVOC of all batches in each fermentation stage for each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within the reporting period that did not exceed the applicable emission limitation.

(ii) If you are using the Batch Option to comply, a certification that BAVOC for each batch manufactured during the reporting period did not exceed applicable emission limitations.

(7) For each 12-month calculation period ending on a calendar month that falls within a reporting period for which you are using the Average Option to comply or for any reporting period for which you are using the Batch Option to comply and your affected source fails to meet an applicable standard, the information in paragraph (c)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section, depending on the compliance option selected from Table 1 to this subpart.

(i) If you are using the Average Option to comply, the average BAVOC of all batches in each fermentation stage for each 12-month calculation period that failed to meet the applicable standard; the fermenters that operated in each fermentation stage that failed to meet the applicable standard; the duration of each failure; an estimate of the quantity of VOC emitted over the emission limitation; a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the actions taken to minimize emissions and correct the failure.

(ii) If you are using the Batch Option to comply, the fermenters and batches that failed to meet the applicable standard; the date, time, and duration of each failure; an estimate of the quantity of VOC emitted over the emission limitation; a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and the actions taken to minimize emissions and correct the failure.

(8) The total operating hours for each fermenter, the total hours of monitoring system operation for each CEMS or brew ethanol monitor, and the total hours of monitoring system downtime for each CEMS or brew ethanol monitor.
