
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Manufacturing of Nutritional Yeast
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2182 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Notification of Compliance Status and compliance report that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Records of failures to meet a standard, specified in § 63.2181(c)(5) and (7).

(3) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii) and (ix).

(b) For each affected source that monitors brew ethanol, you must keep records demonstrating the calculation of the brew-to-exhaust correlations specified in § 63.2161.

(c) For each CEMS and brew ethanol monitor, you must keep the records listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi), (vii), (x), and (xi). The CEMS must allow the amount of excess zero (low-level) and high-level calibration drift measured at the interval checks to be quantified and recorded.

(2) Records described in § 63.10(c)(1) through (6).
