
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.2232 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source at a PCWP manufacturing facility.

(b) The affected source is the collection of dryers, refiners, blenders, formers, presses, board coolers, and other process units associated with the manufacturing of plywood and composite wood products. The affected source includes, but is not limited to, green end operations, refining, drying operations (including any combustion unit exhaust stream routinely used to direct fire process unit(s)), resin preparation, blending and forming operations, pressing and board cooling operations, and miscellaneous finishing operations (such as sanding, sawing, patching, edge sealing, and other finishing operations not subject to other national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP)). The affected source also includes onsite storage and preparation of raw materials used in the manufacture of plywood and/or composite wood products, such as resins; onsite wastewater treatment operations specifically associated with plywood and composite wood products manufacturing; and miscellaneous coating operations (ยง 63.2292). The affected source includes lumber kilns at PCWP manufacturing facilities and at any other kind of facility.

(c) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction of the affected source after January 9, 2003, and you meet the applicability criteria at the time you commenced construction.

(d) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2.

(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
