
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Compliance Options, Operating Requirements, and Work Practice Requirements
####### ยง 63.2240 What are the compliance options and operating requirements and how must I meet them?
######## Requirements for debits and credits.

(2)You must calculate debits and credits as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) You must limit process units in the emissions average to those process units located at the existing affected source as defined in ยง 63.2292.

(ii) You cannot use nonoperating process units to generate emissions averaging credits. You cannot use process units that are shut down to generate emissions averaging debits or credits.

(iii) You may not include in your emissions average process units controlled to comply with a State, Tribal, or Federal rule other than this subpart.

(iv) You must use actual measurements of total HAP emissions from process units to calculate your required mass removal (RMR) and actual mass removal (AMR). The total HAP measurements must be obtained according to ยง 63.2262(b) through (d), (g), and (h), using the methods specified in Table 4 to this subpart.

(v) Your initial demonstration that the credit-generating process units will be capable of generating enough credits to offset the debits from the debit-generating process units must be made under representative operating conditions. After the compliance date, you must use actual operating data for all debit and credit calculations.

(vi) Do not include emissions from the following time periods in your emissions averaging calculations:

(A) Before August 13, 2021, emissions during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction as described in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP). On and after August 13, 2021, emissions during safety-related shutdowns, pressurized refiner startups and shutdowns, or startup and shutdown of direct-fired softwood veneer dryer gas-fired burners.

(B) Emissions during periods of monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities or during periods of control device maintenance covered in your routine control device maintenance exemption. No credits may be assigned to credit-generating process units, and maximum debits must be assigned to debit-generating process units during these periods.
