
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2250 What are the general requirements?

(a) You must be in compliance with the compliance options, operating requirements, and the work practice requirements in this subpart at all times, except during periods of process unit or control device startup, shutdown, and malfunction; prior to process unit initial startup; and during the routine control device maintenance exemption specified in ยง 63.2251. The compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements do not apply during times when the process unit(s) subject to the compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements are not operating, or during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. Startup and shutdown periods must not exceed the minimum amount of time necessary for these events. For any affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, this paragraph (a) does not apply on and after August 13, 2020 or initial startup of the affected source, whichever is later. For all other affected sources, this paragraph (a) does not apply on and after August 13, 2021.

(b) You must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment according to the provisions in ยง 63.6(e)(1)(i). For any affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, this paragraph (b) does not apply on and after August 13, 2020 or initial startup of the affected source, whichever is later. For all other affected sources, this paragraph (b) does not apply on and after August 13, 2021.

(c) You must develop a written SSMP according to the provisions in ยง 63.6(e)(3). For any affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, this paragraph (c) does not apply on and after August 13, 2020 or initial startup of the affected source, whichever is later. For all other affected sources, this paragraph (c) does not apply on and after August 13, 2021.

(d) Shutoff of direct-fired burners resulting from partial and full production stoppages of direct-fired softwood veneer dryers or over-temperature events shall be deemed shutdowns and not malfunctions. Lighting or re-lighting any one or all gas burners in direct-fired softwood veneer dryers shall be deemed startups and not malfunctions.

(e) You must be in compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part, except as noted in Table 10 to this subpart.

(f) Upon August 13, 2020 or initial startup of the affected source, whichever is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, and on and after August 13, 2021 for all other affected sources, you must be in compliance with the compliance options, operating requirements, and the work practice requirements in this subpart when the process unit(s) subject to the compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements are operating, except as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Prior to process unit initial startup.

(2) During safety-related shutdowns conducted according to the work practice requirement in Table 3 to this subpart.

(3) During pressurized refiner startup and shutdown according to the work practice requirement in Table 3 to this subpart.

(4) During startup and shutdown of direct-fired softwood veneer dryer gas-fired burners according to the work practice requirement in Table 3 to this subpart.

(5) You must minimize the length of time when compliance options and operating requirements in this subpart are not met due to the conditions in paragraphs (f)(2) and (4) of this section.

(6) The applicable standard during each of the operating conditions specified in paragraphs (f)(2) through (4) of this section are the work practice requirements in Table 3 to this subpart for safety-related shutdowns (row 6), pressurized refiner startup and shutdown (row 7), and direct-fired softwood veneer dryers undergoing startup or shutdown of gas-fired burners (row 8). The otherwise applicable compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements (in rows 1 through 5 of Table 3 to this subpart) do not apply during the operating conditions specified in paragraphs (f)(2) through (4) of this section.

(g) For affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, and for all other affected sources on and after August 13, 2021, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions at least to the levels required by this subpart. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
