
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2251 What are the requirements for the routine control device maintenance exemption?

(a) You may request a routine control device maintenance exemption from the EPA Administrator for routine maintenance events such as control device bakeouts, washouts, media replacement, and replacement of corroded parts. Your request must justify the need for the routine maintenance on the control device and the time required to accomplish the maintenance activities, describe the maintenance activities and the frequency of the maintenance activities, explain why the maintenance cannot be accomplished during process shutdowns, describe how you plan to make reasonable efforts to minimize emissions during the maintenance, and provide any other documentation required by the EPA Administrator.

(b) The routine control device maintenance exemption must not exceed the percentages of process unit operating uptime in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If the control device is used to control a green rotary dryer, tube dryer, rotary strand dryer, or pressurized refiner, then the routine control device maintenance exemption must not exceed 3 percent of annual operating uptime for each process unit controlled.

(2) If the control device is used to control a softwood veneer dryer, reconstituted wood product press, reconstituted wood product board cooler, hardboard oven, press predryer, conveyor strand dryer, or fiberboard mat dryer, then the routine control device maintenance exemption must not exceed 0.5 percent of annual operating uptime for each process unit controlled.

(3) If the control device is used to control a combination of equipment listed in both paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, such as a tube dryer and a reconstituted wood product press, then the routine control device maintenance exemption must not exceed 3 percent of annual operating uptime for each process unit controlled.

(c) The request for the routine control device maintenance exemption, if approved by the EPA Administrator, must be IBR in and attached to the affected source's title V permit.

(d) The compliance options and operating requirements do not apply during times when control device maintenance covered under your approved routine control device maintenance exemption is performed. You must minimize emissions to the greatest extent possible during these routine control device maintenance periods.

(e) To the extent practical, startup and shutdown of emission control systems must be scheduled during times when process equipment is also shut down.
