
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2262 How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating requirements?
######## e.g.

(1) During the performance test, you must continuously monitor the firebox temperature during each of the required 1-hour test runs. For regenerative thermal oxidizers, you may measure the temperature in multiple locations (, one location per burner) in the combustion chamber and calculate the average of the temperature measurements prior to reducing the temperature data to 15-minute averages for purposes of establishing your minimum firebox temperature. The minimum firebox temperature must then be established as the average of the three minimum 15-minute firebox temperatures monitored during the three test runs. Multiple three-run performance tests may be conducted to establish a range of parameter values under different operating conditions.

(2) You may establish a different minimum firebox temperature for your thermal oxidizer by submitting the notification specified in ยง 63.2280(g) and conducting a repeat performance test as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section that demonstrates compliance with the applicable compliance options of this subpart.

(3) If your thermal oxidizer is a combustion unit that accepts process exhaust into the flame zone, then you are exempt from the performance testing and monitoring requirements specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section. To demonstrate initial compliance, you must submit documentation with your Notification of Compliance Status showing that process exhausts controlled by the combustion unit enter into the flame zone.
