
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2262 How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating requirements?
######## Establishing operating requirements for process units meeting compliance options without a control device.

(n)If you operate a process unit that meets a compliance option in Table 1A to this subpart, or is a process unit that generates debits in an emissions average without the use of a control device, you must establish your process unit operating parameters according to paragraphs (n)(1) through (2) of this section.

(1) During the performance test, you must identify and document the process unit controlling parameter(s) that affect total HAP emissions during the three-run performance test. The controlling parameters you identify must coincide with the representative operating conditions you describe according to paragraph (b) of this section. For each parameter, you must specify appropriate monitoring methods, monitoring frequencies, and for continuously monitored parameters, averaging times not to exceed 24 hours. The operating limit for each controlling parameter must then be established as the minimum, maximum, range, or average (as appropriate depending on the parameter) recorded during the performance test. Multiple three-run performance tests may be conducted to establish a range of parameter values under different operating conditions.

(2) You may establish different controlling parameter limits for your process unit by submitting the notification specified in ยง 63.2280(g) and conducting a repeat performance test as specified in paragraph (n)(1) of this section that demonstrates compliance with the compliance options in Table 1A to this subpart or is used to establish emission averaging debits for an uncontrolled process unit.
