
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2262 How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating requirements?
######## Establishing biofilter operating requirements.

(m)If you operate a biofilter, you must establish your biofilter operating requirements according to paragraphs (m)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) During the performance test, you must continuously monitor the biofilter bed temperature during each of the required 1-hour test runs. To monitor biofilter bed temperature, you may use multiple thermocouples in representative locations throughout the biofilter bed and calculate the average biofilter bed temperature across these thermocouples prior to reducing the temperature data to 15-minute averages for purposes of establishing biofilter bed temperature limits. The biofilter bed temperature range must be established as the temperature values 10 percent below the minimum and 10 percent (not to exceed 8 &#xB0;F) above the maximum 15-minute biofilter bed temperatures monitored during the three test runs. You may base your biofilter bed temperature range on values recorded during previous performance tests provided that the data used to establish the temperature ranges have been obtained using the test methods required in this subpart. If you use data from previous performance tests, you must certify that the biofilter and associated process unit(s) have not been modified subsequent to the date of the performance tests. Replacement of the biofilter media with the same type of material is not considered a modification of the biofilter for purposes of this section.

(2) For a new biofilter installation, you will be allowed up to 180 days following the compliance date or 180 days following initial startup of the biofilter to complete the requirements in paragraph (m)(1) of this section.

(3) You may expand your biofilter bed temperature operating range by submitting the notification specified in ยง 63.2280(g) and conducting a repeat performance test as specified in paragraph (m)(1) of this section that demonstrates compliance with the applicable compliance options of this subpart.
