
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2262 How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating requirements?
######## Establishing catalytic oxidizer operating requirements.

(l)If you operate a catalytic oxidizer, you must establish your catalytic oxidizer operating parameters according to paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) During the performance test, you must continuously monitor during the required 1-hour test runs either the temperature at the inlet to each catalyst bed or the temperature in the combustion chamber. For regenerative catalytic oxidizers, you must calculate the average of the temperature measurements from each catalyst bed inlet or within the combustion chamber prior to reducing the temperature data to 15-minute averages for purposes of establishing your minimum catalytic oxidizer temperature. The minimum catalytic oxidizer temperature must then be established as the average of the three minimum 15-minute temperatures monitored during the three test runs. Multiple three-run performance tests may be conducted to establish a range of parameter values under different operating conditions.

(2) You may establish a different minimum catalytic oxidizer temperature by submitting the notification specified in ยง 63.2280(g) and conducting a repeat performance test as specified in paragraphs (l)(1) and (2) of this section that demonstrates compliance with the applicable compliance options of this subpart.
