
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2280 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), (f)(4) and (f)(6), 63.9 (b) through (e), and (g) and (h) by the dates specified.

(b) You must submit an Initial Notification no later than 120 calendar days after September 28, 2004, 120 calendar days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, as specified in § 63.9(b)(2). Initial Notifications required to be submitted after August 13, 2020, for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, and on and after August 13, 2021, for all other affected sources submitting initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) must be submitted following the procedure specified in § 63.2281(h), (k), and (l).

(c) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a written notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as specified in § 63.7(b)(1).

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, design evaluation, or other compliance demonstration as specified in Tables 4, 5, and 6 to this subpart, or a repeat performance test as specified in Table 7 to this subpart, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). After August 13, 2020 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 6, 2019, and on and after August 13, 2021 for all other affected sources, submit all subsequent Notifications of Compliance Status following the procedure specified in § 63.2281(h), (k), and (l).

(1) For each initial compliance demonstration required in Table 5 or 6 to this subpart that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(2) For each compliance demonstration required in Tables 5, 6, and 7 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including a summary of the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test.

(e) If you request a routine control device maintenance exemption according to § 63.2251, you must submit your request for the exemption no later than 30 days before the compliance date.

(f) If you use the emissions averaging compliance option in § 63.2240(c), you must submit an Emissions Averaging Plan to the EPA Administrator for approval no later than 1 year before the compliance date or no later than 1 year before the date you would begin using an emissions average, whichever is later. The Emissions Averaging Plan must include the information in paragraphs (f)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Identification of all the process units to be included in the emissions average indicating which process units will be used to generate credits, and which process units that are subject to compliance options in Tables 1A and 1B to this subpart will be uncontrolled (used to generate debits) or under-controlled (used to generate debits and credits).

(2) Description of the control system used to generate emission credits for each process unit used to generate credits.

(3) Determination of the total HAP control efficiency for the control system used to generate emission credits for each credit-generating process unit.

(4) Calculation of the RMR and AMR, as calculated using Equations 1 through 3 of § 63.2240(c)(1).

(5) Documentation of total HAP measurements made according to § 63.2240(c)(2)(iv) and other relevant documentation to support calculation of the RMR and AMR.

(6) A summary of the operating parameters you will monitor and monitoring methods for each debit-generating and credit-generating process unit.

(g) You must notify the EPA Administrator within 30 days before you take any of the actions specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You modify or replace the control system for any process unit subject to the compliance options and operating requirements in this subpart.

(2) You shut down any process unit included in your Emissions Averaging Plan.

(3) You change a continuous monitoring parameter or the value or range of values of a continuous monitoring parameter for any process unit or control device.
