
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2271 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements in §§ 63.2240 and 63.2241 that apply to you according to the methods specified in Tables 7 and 8 to this subpart.

(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each compliance option, operating requirement, and work practice requirement in Tables 7 and 8 to this subpart that applies to you. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction and periods of control device maintenance specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. These instances are deviations from the compliance options, operating requirements, and work practice requirements in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.2281.

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(3) Deviations that occur during periods of control device maintenance covered by any approved routine control device maintenance exemption are not violations if you demonstrate to the EPA Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with the approved routine control device maintenance exemption.

(4) Instances of safety-related shutdown, pressurized refiner startup and shutdown, and startup and shutdown of direct-fired softwood veneer dryer gas-fired burners subject to the work practice requirements in Table 3 to this subpart (rows 6 through 8) must be reported as required in § 63.2281(c)(4). Instances when the work practice requirements in Table 3 to this subpart (rows 6 through 8) are used are not considered to be deviations from (or violations of) the otherwise applicable compliance options, operating requirements and work practice requirements (in rows 1 through 5 of Table 3 to this subpart) as long as you do not exceed the minimum amount of time necessary for these events.
