
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### § 49.153 Applicability.
######## Synthetic minor source permits.

(3)

(i) If you own or operate an existing major source and you wish to obtain a synthetic minor source permit pursuant to § 49.158 to establish a synthetic minor source and/or a synthetic minor HAP source, you may submit a synthetic minor source permit application on or after August 30, 2011. However, if your permit application for a synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source pursuant to the FIPs for reservations in Idaho, Oregon and Washington has been determined complete prior to August 30, 2011, you do not need to apply for a synthetic minor source permit under this program.

(ii) If you wish to begin construction of a new synthetic minor source and/or a new synthetic minor HAP source or a modification at an existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source, on or after August 30, 2011, you must obtain a permit pursuant to § 49.158 prior to beginning construction.

(iii) If you own or operate a synthetic minor source or synthetic minor HAP source that was established prior to the effective date of this rule (that is, prior to August 30, 2011) pursuant to the FIPs applicable to the Indian reservations in Idaho, Oregon and Washington or under an EPA-approved rule or permit program limiting potential to emit, you do not need to take any action under this program unless you propose a modification for this existing synthetic minor source and/or synthetic minor HAP source on or after August 30, 2011. For these modifications, you need to obtain a permit pursuant to § 49.158 prior to beginning construction.

(iv) If you own or operate a synthetic minor source or synthetic minor HAP source that was established prior to the effective date of this rule (that is, prior to August 30, 2011) through a permit with enforceable emissions limitations issued pursuant to the operating permit program in part 71 of this chapter, the reviewing authority has the discretion to require you to apply for a synthetic minor source permit under § 49.158 of this program by September 4, 2012 or at the time of part 71 permit renewal or allow you to maintain synthetic minor status through your part 71 permit.

(v) For all other synthetic minor sources or synthetic minor HAP sources that obtained synthetic minor status or synthetic minor source permits through a mechanism other than those described in paragraphs (a)(3)(iii) and (iv) of this section, you must submit an application for a synthetic minor source permit under this program by September 4, 2012 under § 49.158.
