
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Appendix A to Subpart DDDD of Part 63 - Alternative Procedure To Determine Capture Efficiency From Enclosures Around Hot Presses in the Plywood and Composite Wood Products Industry Using Sulfur Hexafluoride Tracer Gas

This procedure has been developed specifically for the rule for the plywood and composite wood products (PCWP) industry and is used to determine the capture efficiency of a partial hot press enclosure in that industry. This procedure is applicable for the determination of capture efficiency for enclosures around hot presses and is an alternative to the construction of temporary total enclosures (TTE). Sulfur hexafluoride (SF) is used as a tracer gas (other tracer gases may be used if approved by the EPA Administrator). This gas is not indigenous to the ambient atmosphere and is nonreactive.

This procedure uses infrared spectrometry (IR) as the analytical technique. When the infrared spectrometer used is a Fourier-Transform Infrared spectrometer (FTIR), an alternate instrument calibration procedure may be used; the alternate calibration procedure is the calibration transfer standard (CTS) procedure of EPA Method 320 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63). Other analytical techniques which are capable of equivalent Method Performance (Section 13.0) also may be used. Specifically, gas chromatography with electron capture detection (GC/ECD) is an applicable technique for analysis of SF.

A constant mass flow rate of SFtracer gas is released through manifolds at multiple locations within the enclosure to mimic the release of hazardous air pollutants during the press process. This test method requires a minimum of three SFinjection points (two at the press unloader and one at the press) and provides details about considerations for locating the injection points. A GC/ECD is used to measure the concentration of SFat the inlet duct to the control device (outlet duct from enclosure). Simultaneously, EPA Method 2 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 60) is used to measure the flow rate at the inlet duct to the control device. The concentration and flow rate measurements are used to calculate the mass emission rate of SFat the control device inlet. Through calculation of the mass of SFreleased through the manifolds and the mass of SFmeasured at the inlet to the control device, the capture efficiency of the enclosure is calculated.

In addition, optional samples of the ambient air may be taken at locations around the perimeter of the enclosure to quantify the ambient concentration of SFand to identify those areas of the enclosure that may be performing less efficiently; these samples would be taken using disposable syringes and would be analyzed using a GC/ECD.

Finally, in addition to the requirements specified in this procedure, the data quality objectives (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) criteria specified in appendix A to 40 CFR part 63, subpart KK, Data Quality Objective and Lower Confidence Limit Approaches for Alternative Capture Efficiency Protocols and Test Methods, must also be satisfied. A minimum of three test runs are required for this procedure; however, additional test runs may be required based on the results of the DQO or LCL analysis.

3.1 Capture efficiency (CE). The weight per unit time of SFentering the control device divided by the weight per unit time of SFreleased through manifolds at multiple locations within the enclosure.

3.2 Control device (CD). The equipment used to reduce, by destruction or removal, press exhaust air pollutants prior to discharge to the ambient air.

3.3 Control/destruction efficiency (DE). The volatile organic compound or HAP removal efficiency of the control device.

3.4 Data Quality Objective (DQO) Approach. A statistical procedure to determine the precision of the data from a test series and to qualify the data in the determination of capture efficiency for compliance purposes. If the results of the DQO analysis of the initial three test runs do not satisfy the DQO criterion, the LCL approach can be used or additional test runs must be conducted. If additional test runs are conducted, then the DQO or LCL analysis is conducted using the data from both the initial test runs and all additional test runs.

3.5 Lower Confidence Limit (LCL) Approach. An alternative statistical procedure that can be used to qualify data in the determination of capture efficiency for compliance purposes. If the results of the LCL approach produce a CE that is too low for demonstrating compliance, then additional test runs must be conducted until the LCL or DQO is met. As with the DQO, data from all valid test runs must be used in the calculation.

3.6 Minimum Measurement Level (MML). The minimum tracer gas concentration expected to be measured during the test series. This value is selected by the tester based on the capabilities of the IR spectrometer (or GC/ECD) and the other known or measured parameters of the hot press enclosure to be tested. The selected MML must be above the low-level calibration standard and preferably below the mid-level calibration standard.

3.7 Method 204. The U.S. EPA Method 204, "Criteria For and Verification of a Permanent or Temporary Total Enclosure" (40 CFR part 51, appendix M).

3.8 Method 205. The U.S. EPA Method 205, "Verification of Gas Dilution Systems for Field Instrument Calibrations" (40 CFR part 51, appendix M).

3.9 Method 320. The U.S. EPA Method 320, "Measurement of Vapor Phase Organic and Inorganic Emissions by Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy" (40 CFR part 63, appendix A).

3.10 Overall capture and control efficiency (CCE). The collection and control/destruction efficiency of both the PPE and CD combined. The CCE is calculated as the product of the CE and DE.

3.11 Partial press enclosure (PPE). The physical barrier that "partially" encloses the press equipment, captures a significant amount of the associated emissions, and transports those emissions to the CD.

3.12 Test series. A minimum of three test runs or, when more than three runs are conducted, all of the test runs conducted.

There are no known interferences.

Sulfur hexafluoride is a colorless, odorless, nonflammable liquefied gas. It is stable and nonreactive and, because it is noncorrosive, most structural materials are compatible with it. The Occupational Safety and Health Administration Permissible Emission Limit-Time Weighted Average (PEL-TWA) and Threshold Limit Value-Time Weighted Average (TLV-TWA) concentrations are 1,000 parts per million. Sulfur hexafluoride is an asphyxiant. Exposure to an oxygen-deficient atmosphere (less than 19.5 percent oxygen) may cause dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, excess salivation, diminished mental alertness, loss of consciousness, and death. Exposure to atmospheres containing less than 12 percent oxygen will bring about unconsciousness without warning and so quickly that the individuals cannot help themselves. Contact with liquid or cold vapor may cause frostbite. Avoid breathing sulfur hexafluoride gas. Self-contained breathing apparatus may be required by rescue workers. Sulfur hexafluoride is not listed as a carcinogen or a potential carcinogen.

This method requires equipment and supplies for: (a) the injection of tracer gas into the enclosure, (b) the measurement of the tracer gas concentration in the exhaust gas entering the control device, and (c) the measurement of the volumetric flow rate of the exhaust gas entering the control device. In addition, the requisite equipment needed for EPA Methods 1-4 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 will be required. Equipment and supplies for optional ambient air sampling are discussed in Section 8.6.

6.1 Tracer Gas Injection.

6.1.1 Manifolds. This method requires the use of tracer gas supply cylinder(s) along with the appropriate flow control elements. Figure 1 shows a schematic drawing of the injection system showing potential locations for the tracer gas manifolds. Figure 2 shows a schematic drawing of the recommended configuration of the injection manifold. Three tracer gas discharge manifolds are required at a minimum.

6.1.2 Flow Control Meter. Flow control and measurement meter for measuring the quantity of tracer gas injected. A mass flow, volumetric flow, or critical orifice control meter can be used for this method. The meter must be accurate to within +/-5 percent at the flow rate used. This means that the flow meter must be calibrated against a primary standard for flow measurement at the appropriate flow rate.

6.2 Measurement of Tracer Gas Concentration.

6.2.1 Sampling Probes. Use Pyrex or stainless steel sampling probes of sufficient length to reach the traverse points calculated according to EPA Method 1 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 60).

6.2.2 Sampling Line. Use a heated Teflon sampling line to transport the sample to the analytical instrument.

6.2.3 Sampling Pump. Use a sampling pump capable of extracting sufficient sample from the duct and transporting to the analytical instrument.

6.2.4 Sample Conditioning System. Use a particulate filter sufficient to protect the sampling pump and analytical instrument. At the discretion of the tester and depending on the equipment used and the moisture content of the exhaust gas, it may be necessary to further condition the sample by removing moisture using a condenser.

6.2.5 Analytical Instrument. Use one of the following analytical instruments.

6.2.5.1 Spectrometer. Use an infrared spectrometer designed to measuring SFtracer gas and capable of meeting or exceeding the specifications of this procedure. An FTIR meeting the specifications of Method 320 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 may be used.

6.2.5.2 GC/ECD. Use a GC/ECD designed to measure SFtracer gas and capable of meeting or exceeding the specifications of this procedure.

6.2.6 Recorder. At a minimum, use a recorder with linear strip chart. An automated data acquisition system (DAS) is recommended.

6.3 Exhaust Gas Flow Rate Measurement. Use equipment specified for EPA Methods 2, 3, and 4 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 for measuring flow rate of exhaust gas at the inlet to the control device.

7.1 Tracer Gas. Use SFas the tracer gas. The manufacturer of the SFtracer gas should provide a recommended shelf life for the tracer gas cylinder over which the concentration does not change more than +/-2 percent from the certified value. A gas mixture of SFdiluted with nitrogen should be used; based on experience and calculations, pure SFgas is not necessary to conduct tracer gas testing. Select a concentration and flow rate that is appropriate for the analytical instrument's detection limit, the MML, and the exhaust gas flow rate from the enclosure (see section 8.1.1). You may use a tracer gas other than SFwith the prior approval of the EPA Administrator. If you use an approved tracer gas other than SF, all references to SFin this protocol instead refer to the approved tracer gas.

7.2 Calibration Gases. The SFcalibration gases required will be dependent on the selected MML and the appropriate span selected for the test. Commercial cylinder gases certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within 1 percent of the certified label value are preferable, although cylinder gases certified by the manufacturer to 2 percent accuracy are allowed. Additionally, the manufacturer of the SFcalibration gases should provide a recommended shelf life for each calibration gas cylinder over which the concentration does not change more than +/-2 percent from the certified value. Another option allowed by this method is for the tester to obtain high concentration certified cylinder gases and then use a dilution system meeting the requirements of EPA Method 205, 40 CFR part 51, appendix M, to make multi-level calibration gas standards. Low-level, mid-level, and high-level calibration gases will be required. The MML must be above the low-level standard, the high-level standard must be no more than four times the low-level standard, and the mid-level standard must be approximately halfway between the high- and low-level standards. See section 12.1 for an example calculation of this procedure.

7.2.1 Zero Gas. High purity nitrogen.

7.2.2 Low-Level Calibration Gas. An SFcalibration gas in nitrogen with a concentration equivalent to 20 to 30 percent of the applicable span value.

7.2.3 Mid-Level Calibration Gas. An SFcalibration gas in nitrogen with a concentration equivalent to 45 to 55 percent of the applicable span value.

7.2.4 High-Level Calibration Gas. An SFcalibration gas in nitrogen with a concentration equivalent to 80 to 90 percent of the applicable span value.

8.1 Test Design.

8.1.1 Determination of Minimum Tracer Gas Flow Rate.

8.1.1.1 Determine (via design calculations or measurements) the approximate flow rate of the exhaust gas through the enclosure, actual cubic feet per minute (acfm).

8.1.1.2 Calculate the minimum tracer gas injection rate necessary to assure a detectable SFconcentration at the exhaust gas measurement point (see section 12.1 for calculation).

8.1.1.3 Select a flow meter for the injection system with an operating range appropriate for the injection rate selected.

8.1.2 Determination of the Approximate Time to Reach Equilibrium.

8.1.2.1 Determine the volume of the enclosure.

8.1.2.2 Calculate the air changes per minute of the enclosure by dividing the approximate exhaust flow rate (8.1.1.1 above) by the enclosed volume (8.1.2.1 above).

8.1.2.3 Calculate the time at which the tracer concentration in the enclosure will achieve approximate equilibrium. Divide 3 by the air changes per minute (8.1.2.2 above) to establish this time. This is the approximate length of time for the system to come to equilibrium. Concentration equilibrium occurs when the tracer concentration in the enclosure stops changing as a function of time for a constant tracer release rate. Because the press is continuously cycling, equilibrium may be exhibited by a repeating, but stable, cyclic pattern rather than a single constant concentration value. Assure sufficient tracer gas is available to allow the system to come to equilibrium, and to sample for a minimum of 20 minutes and repeat the procedure for a minimum of three test runs. Additional test runs may be required based on the results of the DQO and LCL analyses described in 40 CFR part 63, subpart KK, appendix A.

8.1.3 Location of Injection Points. This method requires a minimum of three tracer gas injection points. The injection points should be located within leak prone, volatile organic compound/hazardous air pollutant (VOC/HAP) producing areas around the press, or horizontally within 12 inches of the defined equipment. One potential configuration of the injection points is depicted in Figure 1. The effect of wind, exfiltration through the building envelope, and air flowing through open building doors should be considered when locating tracer gas injection points within the enclosure. The injection points should also be located at a vertical elevation equal to the VOC/HAP generating zones. The injection points should not be located beneath obstructions that would prevent a natural dispersion of the gas. Document the selected injection points in a drawing(s).
