
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.2338 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing OLD operation affected source.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the affected source is the collection of activities and equipment used to distribute organic liquids into, out of, or within a facility that is a major source of HAP. The affected source is composed of:

(1) All storage tanks storing organic liquids.

(2) All transfer racks at which organic liquids are loaded into or unloaded out of transport vehicles and/or containers.

(3) All equipment leak components in organic liquids service that are associated with:

(i) Storage tanks storing organic liquids;

(ii) Transfer racks loading or unloading organic liquids;

(iii) Pipelines that transfer organic liquids directly between two storage tanks that are subject to this subpart;

(iv) Pipelines that transfer organic liquids directly between a storage tank subject to this subpart and a transfer rack subject to this subpart; and

(v) Pipelines that transfer organic liquids directly between two transfer racks that are subject to this subpart.

(4) All transport vehicles while they are loading or unloading organic liquids at transfer racks subject to this subpart.

(5) All containers while they are loading or unloading organic liquids at transfer racks subject to this subpart.

(c) The equipment listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and used in the identified operations is excluded from the affected source.

(1) Storage tanks, transfer racks, transport vehicles, containers, and equipment leak components that are part of an affected source under another 40 CFR part 63 national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (NESHAP).

(2) Non-permanent storage tanks, transfer racks, transport vehicles, containers, and equipment leak components when used in special situation distribution loading and unloading operations (such as maintenance or upset liquids management).

(3) Storage tanks, transfer racks, transport vehicles, containers, and equipment leak components when used to conduct maintenance activities, such as stormwater management, liquid removal from tanks for inspections and maintenance, or changeovers to a different liquid stored in a storage tank.

(d) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction of the affected source after April 2, 2002, and you meet the applicability criteria in ยง 63.2334 at the time you commenced operation.

(e) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria for reconstruction as defined in ยง 63.2.

(f) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
