
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.153 Applicability.
######## How do I determine the increase in allowable emissions from a physical or operational change at my source?

(b)Determine the resulting increase in allowable emissions in tons per year (tpy) of each regulated NSR pollutant after considering all increases from the change. A physical or operational change may involve one or more emissions units. The total increase in allowable emissions resulting from your proposed change, including fugitive emissions, to the extent they are quantifiable, only if your source belongs to one of the source categories listed pursuant to section 302(j) of the Act, would be the sum of the following:

(1) For each new emissions unit that is to be added, the emissions increase would be the potential to emit of the emissions unit.

(2) For each emissions unit with an allowable emissions limit that is to be changed or replaced, the emissions increase would be the allowable emissions of the emissions unit after the change or replacement minus the allowable emissions prior to the change or replacement. However, this may not be a negative value. If the allowable emissions of an emissions unit would be reduced as a result of the change or replacement, use zero in the calculation.

(3) For each unpermitted emissions unit (a unit without any enforceable permit conditions) that is to be changed or replaced, the emissions increase is the allowable emissions of the emissions unit after the change or replacement minus the potential to emit prior to the change or replacement. However, this may not be a negative value. If an emissions unit's post-change allowable emissions would be less than its pre-change potential to emit, use zero in the calculation.
