
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Plywood and Composite Wood Products
###### Appendix A to Subpart DDDD of Part 63 - Alternative Procedure To Determine Capture Efficiency From Enclosures Around Hot Presses in the Plywood and Composite Wood Products Industry Using Sulfur Hexafluoride Tracer Gas
####### OR

12.6 Calculate Overall Capture Efficiency. After calculating the capture efficiency for each of the initial three test runs, follow the procedures in 40 CFR part 63, subpart KK, appendix A, to determine if the results of the testing can be used in determining compliance with the requirements of the rule. There are two methods that can be used: the DQO and LCL methods. The DQO method is described in section 3 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart KK, appendix A, and provides a measure of the precision of the capture efficiency testing conducted. Section 3 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart KK, appendix A, provides an example calculation using results from a facility. If the DQO criteria are met using the first set of three test runs, then the facility can use the average capture efficiency of these test results to determine the capture efficiency of the enclosure. If the DQO criteria are not met, then the facility can conduct another set of three runs and run the DQO analysis again using the results from the six runsthe facility can elect to use the LCL approach.

The LCL method is described in section 4 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart KK, appendix A, and provides sources that may be performing much better than their regulatory requirement, a screening option by which they can demonstrate compliance. The LCL approach compares the 80 percent lower confidence limit for the mean measured CE value to the applicable regulatory requirement. If the LCL capture efficiency is higher than the applicable limit, then the facility is in initial compliance and would use the LCL capture efficiency as the capture efficiency to determine compliance. If the LCL capture efficiency is lower than the applicable limit, then the facility must perform additional test runs and re-run the DQO or LCL analysis.

13.1 Measurement System Performance Specifications.

13.1.1 Zero Drift. Less than +/-3 percent of the span value.

13.1.2 Calibration Drift. Less than +/-3 percent of the span value.

13.1.3 Calibration Error. Less than +/-5 percent of the calibration gas value.

13.2 Flow Measurement Specifications. The mass flow, volumetric flow, or critical orifice control meter used should have an accuracy of greater than +/-5 percent at the flow rate used.

13.3 Calibration and Tracer Gas Specifications. The manufacturer of the calibration and tracer gases should provide a recommended shelf life for each calibration gas cylinder over which the concentration does not change more than +/-2 percent from the certified value.

1. 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, EPA Method 1-Sample and velocity traverses for stationary sources.

2. 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, EPA Method 2-Determination of stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate.

3. 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, EPA Method 3-Gas analysis for the determination of dry molecular weight.

4. 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, EPA Method 4-Determination of moisture content in stack gases.

5. SEMI F15-93 Test Method for Enclosures Using Sulfur Hexafluoride Tracer Gas and Gas Chromotography.

6. Memorandum from John S. Seitz, Director, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, to EPA Regional Directors, Revised Capture Efficiency Guidance for Control of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions, February 7, 1995. (That memorandum contains an attached technical document from Candace Sorrell, Emission Monitoring and Analysis Division, "Guidelines for Determining Capture Efficiency," January 9, 1994).

7. Technical Systems Audit of Testing at Plant "C," EPA-454/R-00-26, May 2000.
