
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.153 Applicability.
######## What emissions units and activities are exempt from this program?

(c)At a source that is otherwise subject to this program, this program does not apply to the following emissions units and activities that are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section:

(1) Mobile sources.

(2) Ventilating units for comfort that do not exhaust air pollutants into the ambient air from any manufacturing or other industrial processes

(3) Cooking of food, except for wholesale businesses that both cook and sell cooked food.

(4) Consumer use of office equipment and products.

(5) Janitorial services and consumer use of janitorial products.

(6) Internal combustion engines used for landscaping purposes.

(7) Bench scale laboratory activities, except for laboratory fume hoods or vents.

(8) Single family residences and residential buildings with four or fewer dwelling units.

(9) Emergency generators, designed solely for the purpose of providing electrical power during power outages:

(i) In nonattainment areas classified as serious or lower, the total maximum manufacturer's site-rated horsepower of all units shall be below 500;

(ii) In attainment areas, the total maximum manufacturer's site-rated horsepower of all units shall be below 1,000.

(10) Stationary internal combustion engines with a manufacturer's site-rated horsepower of less than 50.

(11) Furnaces or boilers used for space heating that use only gaseous fuel, with a total maximum heat input (i.e., from all units combined) of:

(i) In nonattainment areas classified as Serious or lower, 5 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr) or less;

(ii) In nonattainment areas classified as Severe or Extreme, 2 million British thermal units per hour (MMBtu/hr) or less;

(iii) In attainment areas, 10 MMBtu/hr or less.

(12) Air conditioning units used for human comfort that do not exhaust air pollutants in the atmosphere from any manufacturing or other industrial processes.
