
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.2342 When do I have to comply with this subpart?
######## Limitation on use of compliance extension.

(I)The owner or operator may request an extension of compliance under the provisions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section only once for each facility.

(c) If you have an area source that does not commence reconstruction but increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP emissions and an existing affected source subject to this subpart, you must be in compliance by 3 years after the area source becomes a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in §§ 63.2343 and 63.2382(a), as applicable, according to the schedules in § 63.2382(a) and (b)(1) through (2) and in subpart A of this part. Some of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance dates for the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart.

(e) An affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before October 21, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section upon initial startup or July 7, 2023, whichever is later. An affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction after October 21, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section upon initial startup or July 7, 2020, whichever is later.

(1) The requirements for storage tanks not requiring control specified in § 63.2343(b)(4).

(2) The requirements for storage tanks at an existing affected source specified in §§ 63.2346(a)(5) and (6), 63.2386(d)(3)(iii), 63.2396(a)(4), footnote (2) to Table 2 to this subpart, and Table 2b to this subpart.

(3) The flare requirements specified in §§ 63.2346(k), 63.2382(d)(2)(ix), 63.2386(d)(5), 63.2390(h), footnote (1) to Table 2 to this subpart, item 7.d, to Table 3 to this subpart, items 1.a.iii and 2.a.iii of Table 8 to this subpart, and item 7.e of Table 9 to this subpart.

(4) The requirements specified in §§ 63.2346(l), 63.2350(d), 63.2366(c), 63.2390(f) and (g), 63.2386(c)(11) and (12), 63.2386(d)(1)(xiii) and (f) through (j), 63.2378(e), footnote (1) to Table 9 to this subpart, and items 1.a.i and 2.a.ii of Table 10 to this subpart.

(5) The performance testing requirements specified in § 63.2354(b)(6).
