
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.2343 What are my requirements for emission sources not requiring control?
######## i.e.,

(iii) If you are already submitting a Notification of Compliance Status or a first Compliance report under § 63.2386(c), you do not need to submit a separate Notification of Compliance Status or first Compliance report for each transfer rack that meets the conditions identified in this paragraph (c) (a single Notification of Compliance Status or first Compliance report should be submitted).

(2)(i) You must submit a subsequent Compliance report according to the schedule in § 63.2386(b) whenever any of the events in paragraph (d) of this section occur, as applicable.

(ii) Your subsequent Compliance reports must contain the information in § 63.2386(c)(1), (2), (3) and, as applicable, in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4). If you are already submitting a subsequent Compliance report under § 63.2386(d), you do not need to submit a separate subsequent Compliance report for each transfer rack that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (c) of this section (i.e., a single subsequent Compliance report should be submitted).

(3) For each transfer rack that meets the conditions identified in paragraph (c) of this section, you must keep documentation, including the records specified in § 63.2390(d), that verifies the transfer rack is not required to be controlled under this subpart. The documentation must be kept up-to-date and must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious inspection and review according to § 63.10(b)(1), including records stored in electronic form in a separate location.

(d) If one or more of the events identified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section occur since the filing of the Notification of Compliance Status or the last Compliance report, you must submit a subsequent Compliance report as specified in paragraphs (b)(2) and (c)(2) of this section.

(1) Any storage tank or transfer rack became subject to control under this subpart EEEE; or

(2) Any storage tank equal to or greater than 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) became part of the affected source but is not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart; or

(3) Any transfer rack (except those racks at which only unloading of organic liquids occurs) became part of the affected source; or

(4) Any of the information required in § 63.2386(c)(1), § 63.2386(c)(2), or § 63.2386(c)(3) has changed.
