
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Emission Limitations, Operating Limits, and Work Practice Standards
####### § 63.2346 What emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards must I meet?
######## Storage tanks.

(a)Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(5) and (6) and (l) of this section, for each storage tank storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 1 through 5, you must comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section. For each storage tank storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, item 6, you must comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (4) of this section.

(1) Meet the emission limits specified in Table 2 or 2b to this subpart and comply with paragraph (l) of this section and the applicable requirements specified in subpart SS of this part, for meeting emission limits, except substitute the term "storage tank" at each occurrence of the term "storage vessel" in subpart SS.

(2) Route emissions to fuel gas systems or back into a process as specified in subpart SS of this part. If you comply with this paragraph, then you must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (l) of this section.

(3) Comply with 40 CFR part 63, subpart WW (control level 2).

(4) Use a vapor balancing system that complies with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section and with the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2390(e).

(i) The vapor balancing system must be designed and operated to route organic HAP vapors displaced from loading of the storage tank to the transport vehicle from which the storage tank is filled.

(ii) Transport vehicles must have a current certification in accordance with the United States Department of Transportation (U.S. DOT) qualification and maintenance requirements of 49 CFR part 180, subparts E (for cargo tanks) and F (for tank cars).

(iii) Organic liquids must only be unloaded from cargo tanks or tank cars when vapor collection systems are connected to the storage tank's vapor collection system.

(iv) No pressure relief device on the storage tank, on the vapor return line, or on the cargo tank or tank car, shall open during loading or as a result of diurnal temperature changes (breathing losses).

(v) Pressure relief devices must be set to no less than 2.5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) at all times to prevent breathing losses. Pressure relief devices may be set at values less than 2.5 psig if the owner or operator provides rationale in the notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times. The owner or operator shall comply with paragraphs (a)(4)(v)(A) through (C) of this section for each relief valve.

(A) The relief valve shall be monitored quarterly using the method described in § 63.180(b).

(B) An instrument reading of 500 parts per million by volume (ppmv) or greater defines a leak.

(C) When a leak is detected, it shall be repaired as soon as practicable, but no later than 5 days after it is detected, and the owner or operator shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.181(d)(1) through (4).

(vi) Cargo tanks and tank cars that deliver organic liquids to a storage tank must be reloaded or cleaned at a facility that utilizes the control techniques specified in paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) or (a)(4)(vi)(B) of this section.

(A) The cargo tank or tank car must be connected to a closed-vent system with a control device that reduces inlet emissions of total organic HAP by 95 percent by weight or greater or to an exhaust concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv, on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen for combustion devices using supplemental combustion air.

(B) A vapor balancing system designed and operated to collect organic HAP vapor displaced from the cargo tank or tank car during reloading must be used to route the collected vapor to the storage tank from which the liquid being transferred originated or to another storage tank connected to a common header.

(vii) The owner or operator of the facility where the cargo tank or tank car is reloaded or cleaned must comply with paragraphs (a)(4)(vii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Submit to the owner or operator of the storage tank and to the Administrator a written certification that the reloading or cleaning facility will meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(vii)(A) through (C) of this section. The certifying entity may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the owner or operator of the storage tank giving at least 90 days notice that the certifying entity is rescinding acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (a)(4)(vii) of this section.

(B) If complying with paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(A) of this section, comply with the requirements for a closed vent system and control device as specified in this subpart EEEE. The notification requirements in § 63.2382 and the reporting requirements in § 63.2386 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.

(C) If complying with paragraph (a)(4)(vi)(B) of this section, keep the records specified in § 63.2390(e)(3) or equivalent recordkeeping approved by the Administrator.

(D) After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, at an offsite reloading or cleaning facility subject to § 63.2346(a)(4), compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions of any other subpart of this part 63 that has monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions constitutes compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting provisions of § 63.2346(a)(4)(vii)(B) or § 63.2346(a)(4)(vii)(C). You must identify in your notification of compliance status report required by § 63.2382(d) the subpart of this part 63 with which the owner or operator of the offsite reloading or cleaning facility complies.

(5) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the tank capacity criteria, liquid vapor pressure criteria, and emission limits specified for storage tanks at an existing affected source in Table 2 of this subpart, item 1 no longer apply. Instead, for each storage tank at an existing affected source storing organic liquids that meets the tank capacity and liquid vapor pressure criteria for control in Table 2b to this subpart, items 1 through 3, you must comply with paragraph (a)(1), (2), (3), or (4) and paragraph (a)(6) of this section.
