
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Emission Limitations, Operating Limits, and Work Practice Standards
####### § 63.2346 What emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards must I meet?
######## Transfer racks.

(b)For each transfer rack that is part of the collection of transfer racks that meets the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume criterion for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section for each arm in the transfer rack loading an organic liquid whose organic HAP content meets the organic HAP criterion for control in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10. For existing affected sources, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) of this section during the loading of organic liquids into transport vehicles. For new affected sources, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section during the loading of organic liquids into transport vehicles and containers. If the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume at any affected source is equal to or greater than the loading volume criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, but at a later date is less than the loading volume criteria for control, compliance with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) of this section is no longer required. For new sources and reconstructed sources, as defined in § 63.2338(d) and (e), if at a later date, the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume again becomes equal to or greater than the loading volume criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, the owner or operator must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section immediately, as specified in § 63.2342(a)(3). For existing sources, as defined in § 63.2338(f), if at a later date, the total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume again becomes equal to or greater than the loading volume criteria for control in Table 2 to this subpart, the owner or operator must comply with paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3)(i) of this section immediately, as specified in § 63.2342(b)(3)(i), unless an alternative compliance schedule has been approved under § 63.2342(b)(3)(ii) and subject to the use limitation specified in § 63.2342(b)(3)(ii)(I).

(1) Meet the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart and comply with paragraph (l) of this section and the applicable requirements for transfer racks specified in subpart SS of this part, for meeting emission limits.

(2) Route emissions to fuel gas systems or back into a process as specified in subpart SS of this part. If you comply with this paragraph, then you must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (l) of this section.

(3)(i) Use a vapor balancing system that routes organic HAP vapors displaced from the loading of organic liquids into transport vehicles to the storage tank from which the liquid being loaded originated or to another storage tank connected to a common header.

(ii) Use a vapor balancing system that routes the organic HAP vapors displaced from the loading of organic liquids into containers directly (e.g., no intervening tank or containment area such as a room) to the storage tank from which the liquid being loaded originated or to another storage tank connected to a common header.
