
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2358 By what date must I conduct performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?

(a) You must conduct initial performance tests and design evaluations according to the schedule in ยง 63.7(a)(2), or by the compliance date specified in any applicable State or Federal new source review construction permit to which the affected source is already subject, whichever is earlier.

(b)(1) For storage tanks and transfer racks at existing affected sources complying with the emission limitations listed in Table 2 to this subpart, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations within 180 days after February 5, 2007, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (b)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) For storage tanks with an existing internal or external floating roof, complying with item 1.a.ii. in Table 2 to this subpart and item 1.a. in Table 4 to this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration the next time the storage tank is emptied and degassed, but not later than February 3, 2014.

(ii) For storage tanks complying with item 1.a.ii. or 6.a.ii in Table 2 of this subpart and item 1.b., 1.c., or 2. in Table 4 of this subpart, you must comply within 180 days after April 25, 2011.

(2) For storage tanks and transfer racks at reconstructed or new affected sources complying with the emission limitations listed in Table 2 to this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration with the emission limitations within 180 days after the initial startup date for the affected source or February 3, 2004, whichever is later.

(3) For storage tanks at existing affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before October 21, 2019, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations listed in Table 2b to this subpart within 180 days of either the initial startup or July 7, 2023, whichever is later, except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For storage tanks with an existing internal or external floating roof, complying with item 1.a.ii. in Table 2b to this subpart and item 1.a. in Table 4 to this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration the next time the storage tank is emptied and degassed, but not later than July 7, 2030.

(ii) For storage tanks complying with item 1.a.ii. in Table 2b to this subpart and item 1.b. or 1.c. in Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply within 180 days after July 7, 2023.

(c)(1) For storage tanks at existing affected sources complying with the work practice standard in Table 4 to this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) For storage tanks with an existing internal or external floating roof, complying with item 1.a. in Table 4 of this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration the next time the storage tank is emptied and degassed, but not later than February 3, 2014.

(ii) For other storage tanks not specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, you must comply within 180 days after April 25, 2011.

(2) For transfer racks and equipment leak components at existing affected sources complying with the work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration within 180 days after February 5, 2007.

(d) For storage tanks, transfer racks, and equipment leak components at reconstructed or new affected sources complying with the work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart, you must conduct your initial compliance demonstration within 180 days after the initial startup date for the affected source.
