
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.154 Permit application requirements.
######## Required permit application content.

(2)Except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, you must include the information listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section in your application for a permit under this program. The reviewing authority may require additional information as needed to process the permit application.

(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.

(ii) A description of your source's processes and products.

(iii) A list of all affected emissions units (with the exception of the exempt emissions units and activities listed in ยง 49.153(c)).

(iv) For each new emissions unit that is listed, the potential to emit of each regulated NSR pollutant in tpy (including fugitive emissions, to the extent that they are quantifiable, if the emissions unit or source is in one of the source categories listed in part 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A.4(iii) or ยง 52.21(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter, as applicable), with supporting documentation. In your calculation of the potential to emit for an emissions unit, you must account for any proposed emission limitations.

(v) For each modified emissions unit and replacement unit that is listed, the allowable emissions of each regulated NSR pollutant in tpy both before and after the modification (including fugitive emissions, to the extent that they are quantifiable, if the emissions unit or source belongs to one of the source categories listed in part 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A.4(iii) or ยง 52.21(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter, as applicable), with supporting documentation. For emissions units that do not have an allowable emissions limit prior to the modification, report the potential to emit. In your calculation of annual allowable emissions for an emissions unit after the modification, you must account for any proposed emission limitations.

(vi) The following information to the extent it is needed to determine or regulate emissions: Fuels, fuel use, raw materials, production rates and operating schedules.

(vii) Identification and description of any existing air pollution control equipment and compliance monitoring devices or activities.

(viii) Any existing limitations on source operation affecting emissions or any work practice standards, where applicable, for all NSR regulated pollutants at the source.

(ix) For each emission point associated with an affected emissions unit, provide stack or vent dimensions and flow information.
