
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2354 What performance tests, design evaluations, and performance evaluations must I conduct?

(a)(1) For each performance test that you conduct, you must use the procedures specified in subpart SS of this part and the provisions specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) For each design evaluation you conduct, you must use the procedures specified in subpart SS of this part. You must also comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2346(l).

(3) For each performance evaluation of a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) you conduct, you must follow the requirements in § 63.8(e) and paragraph (d) of this section. For CEMS installed after the compliance date specified in § 63.2342(e), conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS within 180 days of installation of the monitoring system.

(b)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, for nonflare control devices, you must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1), and either § 63.988(b), § 63.990(b), or § 63.995(b), using the procedures specified in § 63.997(e).

(2) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test on a nonflare control device as specified in §§ 63.7(e)(3) and 63.997(e)(1)(v). Each test run must last at least 1 hour, except as provided in § 63.997(e)(1)(v)(A) and (B).

(3)(i) In addition to Method 25 or 25A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7), to determine compliance with the TOC emission limit, you may use Method 18 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6) or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine compliance with the total organic HAP emission limit. You may not use Method 18 or Method 320 of appendix A to this part if the control device is a combustion device, and you must not use Method 320 of appendix A to this part if the gas stream contains entrained water droplets. All compounds quantified by Method 320 of appendix A to this part must be validated according to Section 13.0 of Method 320 of appendix A to this part. As an alternative to Method 18, for determining compliance with the total organic HAP emission limit, you may use ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), under the conditions specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
