
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2382 What notifications must I submit and when and what information should be submitted?
######## Notification of Compliance Status requirements.

(2)The Notification of Compliance Status must include the information required in § 63.999(b) and in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section.

(i) The results of any applicability determinations, emission calculations, or analyses used to identify and quantify organic HAP emissions from the affected source.

(ii) The results of emissions profiles, performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, flare compliance assessments, inspections and repairs, and calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance according to Tables 6 and 7 to this subpart. For performance tests, results must include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures. If performance test results are submitted electronically via CEDRI in accordance with § 63.2386(g), the unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the Notification of Compliance Status in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the Notification of Compliance Status is submitted.

(iii) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the operating limits established during the initial compliance demonstrations, including data and calculations to support the levels you establish.

(iv) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for the control device(s).

(v) Identification of emission sources subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.2396 and the authority under which you will comply.

(vi) The applicable information specified in § 63.1039(a)(1) through (3) for all pumps and valves subject to the work practice standards for equipment leak components in Table 4 to this subpart, item 4.

(vii) If you are complying with the vapor balancing work practice standard for transfer racks according to Table 4 to this subpart, item 3.a, include a statement to that effect and a statement that the pressure vent settings on the affected storage tanks are greater than or equal to 2.5 psig.

(viii) The information specified in § 63.2386(c)(10)(i), unless the information has already been submitted with the first Compliance report. If the information specified in § 63.2386(c)(10)(i) has already been submitted with the first Compliance report, the information specified in § 63.2386(d)(3) and (4), as applicable, shall be submitted instead.
