
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2380 What are my requirements for certain flares?

(a) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a steam-assisted, air-assisted, or non-assisted flare to control emissions from a storage tank, low throughput transfer rack, or high throughput transfer rack that is subject to control based on the criteria specified in Tables 2 or 2b to this subpart, then the flare requirements specified in § 63.11(b); subpart SS of this part; the provisions specified in items 7.a through 7.d of Table 3 to this subpart; Table 8 to this subpart; and the provisions specified in items 1.a.iii and 2.a.iii, and items 7.a through 7.d.2 of Table 9 to this subpart no longer apply. Instead, you must meet the applicable requirements for flares as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671, including the provisions in Tables 12 and 13 to subpart CC of this part, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (m) of this section. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph, the following terms are defined in § 63.641: Assist air, assist steam, center steam, combustion zone, combustion zone gas, flare, flare purge gas, flare supplemental gas, flare sweep gas, flare vent gas, lower steam, net heating value, perimeter assist air, pilot gas, premix assist air, total steam, and upper steam.

(b) The following phrases in § 63.670(c) do not apply:

(1) "Specify the smokeless design capacity of each flare and"; and

(2) "And the flare vent gas flow rate is less than the smokeless design capacity of the flare."

(c) The phrase "and the flare vent gas flow rate is less than the smokeless design capacity of the flare" in § 63.670(d) does not apply.

(d) Section 63.670(j)(6)(ii) does not apply. Instead submit the information required by § 63.670(j)(6)(ii) with the Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.2382(d)(2)(ix).

(e) Section 63.670(o) does not apply.

(f) Substitute "pilot flame or flare flame" or each occurrence of "pilot flame."

(g) Substitute "affected source" for each occurrence of "petroleum refinery."

(h) Each occurrence of "refinery" does not apply.
