
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.154 Permit application requirements.
######## How is my permit application determined to be complete?

(b)Paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section govern the completeness review of your permit application.

(1) An application for a permit under this program will be reviewed by the reviewing authority within 45 days of its receipt (60 days for minor modifications at major sources) to determine whether the application contains all the information necessary for processing the application.

(2) If the reviewing authority determines that the application is not complete, it will request additional information from you as necessary to process the application. If the reviewing authority determines that the application is complete, it will notify you in writing. The reviewing authority's completeness determination or request for additional information should be postmarked within 45 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority (60 days for minor modifications at major sources). If you do not receive a request for additional information or a notice of complete application postmarked within 45 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority (60 days for minor modifications at major sources), your application will be deemed complete.

(3) If, while processing an application that has been determined to be complete, the reviewing authority determines that additional information is necessary to evaluate or take final action on the application, it may request additional information from you and require your responses within a reasonable time period.

(4) Any permit application will be granted or denied no later than 135 days (1 year for minor modifications at major sources) after the date the application is deemed complete and all additional information necessary to make an informed decision has been provided.
