
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2386 What reports must I submit and when and what information is to be submitted in each?
######## Subsequent Compliance reports.

(d)Subsequent Compliance reports must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) and paragraph (c)(12) of this section and, where applicable, the information in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with an emission limitation in this subpart, or for each CMS that was inoperative or out of control during the reporting period, you must include in the Compliance report the applicable information in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (xv) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.

(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped, and the nature and cause of the malfunction (if known).

(ii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours for each period that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(iii) The start date, start time, and duration in hours for each period that the CMS that was out of control.

(iv) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(xiii) of this section, the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM, or during another period.

(v) The total duration in hours of all deviations for each CMS during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percentage of the total emission source operating time during that reporting period.

(vi) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(1)(xiii) of this section, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(vii) The total duration in hours of CMS downtime for each CMS during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percentage of the total emission source operating time during that reporting period.

(viii) An identification of each organic HAP that was potentially emitted during each deviation based on the known organic HAP contained in the liquid(s).

(ix) A brief description of the emission source(s) at which the CMS deviation(s) occurred or at which the CMS was inoperative or out of control.

(x) The equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s) of the CMS and the pollutant or parameter monitored.

(xi) The date of the latest certification or audit for each CMS.

(xii) A brief description of any changes in CMS, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(xiii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraphs (d)(1)(iv) and (vi) of this section no longer apply. For each instance, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(xiv) Corrective actions taken for a CMS that was inoperative or out of control.

(xv) Total process operating time during the reporting period.

(2) Include in the Compliance report the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section, for each storage tank and transfer rack subject to control requirements, include periods of planned routine maintenance during which the control device did not comply with the applicable emission limits in Table 2 to this subpart.

(ii) For each storage tank controlled with a floating roof, include a copy of the inspection record (required in § 63.1065(b)) when inspection failures occur.

(iii) If you elect to use an extension for a floating roof inspection in accordance with § 63.1063(c)(2)(iv)(B) or (e)(2), include the documentation required by those paragraphs.

(iv) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section no longer applies. Instead for each storage tank subject to control requirements, include the start date, start time, end date and end time of any planned routine maintenance during which the control device used to control storage tank breathing losses did not comply with the applicable emission limits in Table 2 or 2b to this subpart.

(3)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section, a listing of any storage tank that became subject to controls based on the criteria for control specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 1 through 6, since the filing of the last Compliance report.

(ii) A listing of any transfer rack that became subject to controls based on the criteria for control specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, since the filing of the last Compliance report.

(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), the emission limits specified in Table 2 to this subpart for storage tanks at an existing affected source no longer apply as specified in § 63.2346(a)(5). Instead, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), you must include a listing of any storage tanks at an existing affected source that became subject to controls based on the criteria for control specified in Table 2b to this subpart, items 1 through 3, since the filing of the last Compliance report.

(4)(i) A listing of tanks greater than or equal to 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) that became part of the affected source but are not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart, since the last Compliance report.

(ii) A listing of all transfer racks (except those racks at which only the unloading of organic liquids occurs) that became part of the affected source but are not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart, since the last Compliance report.

(5) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), for each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.2380, the compliance report must include the items specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.999(c)(3).

(i) Records as specified in § 63.2390(h)(1) for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame or flare flame is present. Include the start and stop time and date of each 15-minute block.

(ii) Visible emission records as specified in § 63.2390(h)(2)(iv) for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.

(iii) The periods specified in § 63.2390(h)(6). Indicate the date and start and end time for the period, and the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) as applicable.

(e) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a Compliance report pursuant to Table 11 to this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the Compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, we will consider submission of the Compliance report as satisfying any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a Compliance report will not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the applicable title V permitting authority.
