
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2386 What reports must I submit and when and what information is to be submitted in each?
######## First Compliance report.

(c)The first Compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (12) of this section, as well as the information specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, including the official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the report are true, accurate, and complete. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces this requirement.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.

(4) Any changes to the information listed in § 63.2382(d)(2) that have occurred since the submittal of the Notification of Compliance Status.

(5) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(11) of this section, if you had a SSM during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your SSM plan, the Compliance report must include the information described in § 63.10(d)(5)(i).

(6) If there are no deviations from any emission limitation or operating limit that applies to you and there are no deviations from the requirements for work practice standards, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards during the reporting period.

(7) If there were no periods during which the CMS was out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CMS was out of control during the reporting period.

(8) For closed vent systems and control devices used to control emissions, the information specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section for those planned routine maintenance activities that would require the control device to not meet the applicable emission limit.

(i) A description of the planned routine maintenance that is anticipated to be performed for the control device during the next 6 months. This description must include the type of maintenance necessary, planned frequency of maintenance, and lengths of maintenance periods.

(ii) A description of the planned routine maintenance that was performed for the control device during the previous 6 months. This description must include the type of maintenance performed and the total number of hours during those 6 months that the control device did not meet the applicable emission limit due to planned routine maintenance.

(9) A listing of all transport vehicles into which organic liquids were loaded at transfer racks that are subject to control based on the criteria specified in Table 2 to this subpart, items 7 through 10, during the previous 6 months for which vapor tightness documentation as required in § 63.2390(c) was not on file at the facility.

(10)(i) A listing of all transfer racks (except those racks at which only unloading of organic liquids occurs) and of tanks greater than or equal to 18.9 cubic meters (5,000 gallons) that are part of the affected source but are not subject to any of the emission limitations, operating limits, or work practice standards of this subpart.

(ii) If the information specified in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this section has already been submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status, the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3) and (4) of this section, as applicable, shall be submitted instead.

(11) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), paragraph (c)(5) of this section no longer applies.

(12) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342(e), for bypass lines subject to the requirements § 63.2378(e)(1) and (2), the compliance report must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet (scf), the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in ppmv and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.
