
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2386 What reports must I submit and when and what information is to be submitted in each?

(a) You must submit each report in subpart SS of this part, Table 11 to this subpart, Table 12 to this subpart, and in paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section that applies to you. You must also comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2346(l).

(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report according to Table 11 to this subpart and by the dates shown in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, by the dates shown in subpart SS of this part, and by the dates shown in Table 12 to this subpart, whichever are applicable.

(1)(i) The first Compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2342 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2342.

(ii) The first Compliance report must be postmarked no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.2342.

(2)(i) Each subsequent Compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(ii) Each subsequent Compliance report must be postmarked no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(3) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent Compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.
