
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.154 Permit application requirements.
######## How will the reviewing authority determine the emission limitations that will be required in my permit?

(c)After determining that your application is complete, the reviewing authority will conduct a case-by-case control technology review to determine the appropriate level of control, if any, necessary to assure that NAAQS are achieved, as well as the corresponding emission limitations for the affected emissions units at your source.

(1) In carrying out this case-by-case control technology review, the reviewing authority will consider the following factors:

(i) Local air quality conditions.

(ii) Typical control technology or other emissions reduction measures used by similar sources in surrounding areas.

(iii) Anticipated economic growth in the area.

(iv) Cost-effective emission reduction alternatives.

(2) The reviewing authority must require a numerical limit on the quantity, rate or concentration of emissions for each regulated NSR pollutant emitted by each affected emissions unit at your source for which such a limit is technically and economically feasible.

(3) The emission limitations required by the reviewing authority may consist of numerical limits on the quantity, rate or concentration of emissions; pollution prevention techniques; design standards; equipment standards; work practices; operational standards; requirements relating to the operation or maintenance of the source or any combination thereof.

(4) The emission limitations required by the reviewing authority must assure that each affected emissions unit will comply with all requirements of parts 60, 61 and 63 of this chapter as well as any FIPs or TIPs that apply to the unit.

(5) The emission limitations required by the reviewing authority must not be affected in a manner by so much of a stack's height as exceeds good engineering practice or by any other dispersion technique, except as provided in ยง 51.118(b) of this chapter. If the reviewing authority proposes to issue a permit to a source based on a good engineering practice stack height that exceeds the height allowed by ยง 51.100(ii)(1) or (2) of this chapter, it must notify the public of the availability of the demonstration study and must provide opportunity for a public hearing according to the requirements of ยง 49.157 for the draft permit.
