
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.2396 What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?
######## Overlap with other regulations for monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting,Control devices.

(e)-(1)After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if any control device subject to this subpart is also subject to monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of another 40 CFR part 63 subpart, the owner or operator must be in compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart EEEE. If complying with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of the other subpart satisfies the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator may elect to continue to comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of the other subpart. In such instances, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator must identify the other subpart being complied with in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.2382(b).

(2) Equipment leak components. After the compliance dates specified in § 63.2342, if you are applying the applicable recordkeeping and reporting requirements of another subpart of this part to the valves, pumps, and sampling connection systems associated with a transfer rack subject to this subpart that only unloads organic liquids directly to or via pipeline to a non-tank process unit component or to a storage tank subject to the other subpart of this part, the owner or operator must be in compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart EEEE. If complying with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the other subpart satisfies the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart, the owner or operator may elect to continue to comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of the other subpart. In such instances, the owner or operator will be deemed to be in compliance with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart. The owner or operator must identify the other subpart being complied with in the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.2382(d).
