
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Organic Liquids Distribution (Non-Gasoline)
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.2406 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## Total actual annual facility-level organic liquid loading volume

means the total facility-level actual volume of organic liquid loaded for transport within or out of the facility through transfer racks that are part of the affected source into transport vehicles (for existing affected sources) or into transport vehicles and containers (for new affected sources) based on a 3-year rolling average, calculated annually.

(1) For existing affected sources, each 3-year rolling average is based on actual facility-level loading volume during each calendar year (January 1 through December 31) in the 3-year period. For calendar year 2004 only (the first year of the initial 3-year rolling average), if an owner or operator of an affected source does not have actual loading volume data for the time period from January 1, 2004, through February 2, 2004 (the time period prior to the effective date of the OLD NESHAP), the owner or operator shall compute a facility-level loading volume for this time period as follows: At the end of the 2004 calendar year, the owner or operator shall calculate a daily average facility-level loading volume (based on the actual loading volume for February 3, 2004, through December 31, 2004) and use that daily average to estimate the facility-level loading volume for the period of time from January 1, 2004, through February 2, 2004. The owner or operator shall then sum the estimated facility-level loading volume from January 1, 2004, through February 2, 2004, and the actual facility-level loading volume from February 3, 2004, through December 31, 2004, to calculate the annual facility-level loading volume for calendar year 2004.

(2)(i) For new affected sources, the 3-year rolling average is calculated as an average of three 12-month periods. An owner or operator must select as the beginning calculation date with which to start the calculations as either the initial startup date of the new affected source or the first day of the calendar month following the month in which startup occurs. Once selected, the date with which the calculations begin cannot be changed.

(ii) The initial 3-year rolling average is based on the projected maximum facility-level annual loading volume for each of the 3 years following the selected beginning calculation date. The second 3-year rolling average is based on actual facility-level loading volume for the first year of operation plus a new projected maximum facility-level annual loading volume for second and third years following the selected beginning calculation date. The third 3-year rolling average is based on actual facility-level loading volume for the first 2 years of operation plus a new projected maximum annual facility-level loading volume for the third year following the beginning calculation date. Subsequent 3-year rolling averages are based on actual facility-level loading volume for each year in the 3-year rolling average.
