
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Compliance Dates
####### § 63.2445 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section, if you have a new affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you startup your new affected source before November 10, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for new sources in this subpart no later than November 10, 2003.

(2) If you startup your new affected source after November 10, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for new sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section, if you have an existing source on November 10, 2003, you must comply with the requirements for existing sources in this subpart no later than May 10, 2008.

(c) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.2515 according to the dates specified in that section and in subpart A of this part 63. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart.

(d) If you have a Group 2 emission point that becomes a Group 1 emission point after the compliance date for your affected source, you must comply with the Group 1 requirements beginning on the date the switch occurs. An initial compliance demonstration as specified in this subpart must be conducted within 150 days after the switch occurs.

(e) If, after the compliance date for your affected source, hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from process vents in a process increase to more than 1,000 lb/yr, or HAP metals emissions from a process at a new affected source increase to more than 150 lb/yr, you must comply with the applicable emission limits specified in Table 3 to this subpart and the associated compliance requirements beginning on the date the emissions exceed the applicable threshold. An initial compliance demonstration as specified in this subpart must be conducted within 150 days after the switch occurs.

(f) If you have a small control device for process vent or transfer rack emissions that becomes a large control device, as defined in § 63.2550(i), you must comply with monitoring and associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements for large control devices beginning on the date the switch occurs. An initial compliance demonstration as specified in this subpart must be conducted within 150 days after the switch occurs.

(g) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 17, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section upon initial startup or on August 12, 2023, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after December 17, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (g)(1) through (7) of this section upon initial startup, or on August 12, 2020 whichever is later.

(1) The general requirements specified in §§ 63.2450(a)(2), (e)(4) through (7), (g)(6) and (7), (i)(3), (j)(5)(ii), (j)(6), (k)(1)(ii), (k)(7) and (8), (t), and (u), 63.2520(d)(3) and (e)(11) through (13), 63.2525(m) through (o), and 63.2535(m).

(2) For process vents, the requirements specified in §§ 63.2450(v), 63.2520(e)(14), and 63.2525(p).

(3) For storage tank degassing, the requirements specified in § 63.2470(f).

(4) For equipment leaks and pressure relief devices, the requirements specified in §§ 63.2480(e) and (f), 63.2520(d)(4) and (e)(14), and 63.2525(q).

(5) For wastewater streams and liquid streams in open systems within an MCPU, the requirements specified in § 63.2485(i)(2)(iii), (n)(2)(vii), (p), and (q).

(6) For heat exchange systems, the requirements specified in §§ 63.2490(d), 63.2520(e)(16), and 63.2525(r).

(7) The other notification, reports, and records requirements specified in §§ 63.2500(g), 63.2520(e)(5)(ii)(D) and (e)(5)(iii)(M) and (N), and 63.2525(l) and (u).

(h) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 17, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements for pumps in light liquid service in § 63.2480(b)(6) and (c)(10) upon initial startup or on August 12, 2021, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after December 17, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements for pumps in light liquid service in § 63.2480(b)(6) and (c)(10) upon initial startup, or on August 12, 2020, whichever is later.

(i) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before December 17, 2019, must be in compliance with the ethylene oxide requirements in §§ 63.2450(h) and (r), 63.2470(b) and (c)(4), 63.2492, 63.2493, 63.2520(d)(5) and (e)(17), and 63.2525(s) and Table 1 to this subpart, item 5, Table 2 to this subpart, item 3, Table 4 to this subpart, item 3, and Table 6 to this subpart, item 3, upon initial startup or on August 12, 2022, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after December 17, 2019, must be in compliance with the ethylene oxide requirements listed in §§ 63.2450(h) and (r), 63.2470(b) and (c)(4), 63.2492, 63.2493, 63.2520(d)(5) and (e)(17), and 63.2525(s) and Table 1 to this subpart, item 5, Table 2 to this subpart, item 3, Table 4 to this subpart, item 3, and Table 6 to this subpart, item 3, upon initial startup, or on August 12, 2020, whichever is later.
