
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.2435 Am I subject to the requirements in this subpart?

(a) You are subject to the requirements in this subpart if you own or operate miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process units (MCPU) that are located at, or are part of, a major source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emissions as defined in section 112(a) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(b) An MCPU includes equipment necessary to operate a miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process, as defined in § 63.2550, that satisfies all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. An MCPU also includes any assigned storage tanks and transfer racks; equipment in open systems that is used to convey or store water having the same concentration and flow characteristics as wastewater; and components such as pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, and instrumentation systems that are used to manufacture any material or family of materials described in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(1) The MCPU produces material or family of materials that is described in paragraph (b)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), (iv), or (v) of this section.

(i) An organic chemical(s) classified using the 1987 version of SIC code 282, 283, 284, 285, 286, 287, 289, or 386, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(ii) An organic chemical(s) classified using the 1997 version of NAICS code 325, except as provided in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(iii) Quaternary ammonium compounds and ammonium sulfate produced with caprolactam.

(iv) Hydrazine.

(v) Organic solvents classified in any of the SIC or NAICS codes listed in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section that are recovered using nondedicated solvent recovery operations.

(2) The MCPU processes, uses, or generates any of the organic HAP listed in section 112(b) of the CAA or hydrogen halide and halogen HAP, as defined in § 63.2550.

(3) The MCPU is not an affected source or part of an affected source under another subpart of this part 63, except for process vents from batch operations within a chemical manufacturing process unit (CMPU), as identified in § 63.100(j)(4). For this situation, the MCPU is the same as the CMPU as defined in § 63.100, and you are subject only to the requirements for batch process vents in this subpart.

(c) The requirements in this subpart do not apply to the operations specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA.

(2) The manufacture of ammonium sulfate as a by-product, if the slurry entering the by-product manufacturing process contains 50 parts per million by weight (ppmw) HAP or less or 10 ppmw benzene or less. You must retain information, data, and analysis to document the HAP concentration in the entering slurry in order to claim this exemption.

(3) The affiliated operations located at an affected source under subparts GG (National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities), KK (National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry), JJJJ (NESHAP: Paper and Other Web Coating), MMMM (NESHAP: Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products), and SSSS (NESHAP: Surface Coating of Metal Coil) of this part. Affiliated operations include, but are not limited to, mixing or dissolving of coating ingredients; coating mixing for viscosity adjustment, color tint or additive blending, or pH adjustment; cleaning of coating lines and coating line parts; handling and storage of coatings and solvent; and conveyance and treatment of wastewater.

(4) Fabricating operations (such as spinning or compressing a solid polymer into its end use); compounding operations (in which blending, melting, and resolidification of a solid polymer product occur for the purpose of incorporating additives, colorants, or stabilizers); and extrusion and drawing operations (converting an already produced solid polymer into a different shape by melting or mixing the polymer and then forcing it or pulling it through an orifice to create an extruded product). An operation is not exempt if it involves processing with HAP solvent or if an intended purpose of the operation is to remove residual HAP monomer.

(5) Production activities described using the 1997 version of NAICS codes 325131, 325181, 325188 (except the requirements do apply to hydrazine), 325314, 325991 (except the requirements do apply to reformulating plastics resins from recycled plastics products), and 325992 (except the requirements do apply to photographic chemicals).

(6) Tall oil recovery systems.

(7) Carbon monoxide production.

(d) If the predominant use of a transfer rack loading arm or storage tank (including storage tanks in series) is associated with a miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process, and the loading arm or storage tank is not part of an affected source under a subpart of this part 63, then you must assign the loading arm or storage tank to the MCPU for that miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process. If the predominant use cannot be determined, then you may assign the loading arm or storage tank to any MCPU that shares it and is subject to this subpart. If the use varies from year to year, then you must base the determination on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding November 10, 2003 or, if the loading arm or storage tank was not in operation during that year, you must base the use on the expected use for the first 5-year period after startup. You must include the determination in the notification of compliance status report specified in § 63.2520(d). You must redetermine the primary use at least once every 5 years, or any time you implement emissions averaging or pollution prevention after the compliance date.

(e) For nondedicated equipment used to create at least one MCPU, you may elect to develop process unit groups (PUG), determine the primary product of each PUG, and comply with the requirements of the subpart in 40 CFR part 63 that applies to that primary product as specified in § 63.2535(l).
