
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## e.g.,

(2) Determine the applicable requirements based on the hierarchy presented in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section. For a combined stream, the applicable requirements are specified in the highest-listed paragraph in the hierarchy that applies to any of the individual streams that make up the combined stream. For example, if a combined stream consists of emissions from Group 1 batch process vents and any other type of emission stream, then you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for the combined stream; compliance with the requirements in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section constitutes compliance for the other emission streams in the combined stream. Two exceptions are that you must comply with the requirements in Table 3 to this subpart and § 63.2465 for all process vents with hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions, and recordkeeping requirements for Group 2 applicability or compliance are still required (the requirement in § 63.2525(e)(3) and (4) to track the number of batches produced and calculate rolling annual emissions for processes with Group 2 batch process vents).

(i) The requirements of table 2 to this subpart and § 63.2460 for Group 1 batch process vents, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(ii) The requirements of table 1 to this subpart and § 63.2455 for continuous process vents that are routed to a control device, as defined in § 63.981, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(iii) The requirements of table 5 to this subpart and § 63.2475 for transfer operations, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(iv) The requirements of table 7 to this subpart and § 63.2485 for emissions from waste management units that are used to manage and treat Group 1 wastewater streams and residuals from Group 1 wastewater streams, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(v) The requirements of table 4 to this subpart and § 63.2470 for control of emissions from storage tanks, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(vi) The requirements of table 1 to this subpart and § 63.2455 for continuous process vents after a recovery device including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(d) [Reserved]
