
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## e.g.,

(E) Unless you choose to conduct a cross-light performance demonstration as specified in this paragraph (e)(5)(viii)(E), you must ensure that if a stage of burners on the flare uses cross-lighting, that the distance between any two burners in series on that stage is no more than 6 feet when measured from the center of one burner to the next burner. A distance greater than 6 feet between any two burners in series may be used provided you conduct a performance demonstration that confirms the pressure-assisted multi-point flare will cross-light a minimum of three burners and the spacing between the burners and location of the pilot flame must be representative of the projected installation. The compliance demonstration must be approved by the permitting authority and a copy of this approval must be maintained onsite. The compliance demonstration report must include: A protocol describing the test methodology used, associated test method QA/QC parameters, the waste gas composition and NHVcz of the gas tested, the velocity of the waste gas tested, the pressure-assisted multi-point flare burner tip pressure, the time, length, and duration of the test, records of whether a successful cross-light was observed over all of the burners and the length of time it took for the burners to cross-light, records of maintaining a stable flame after a successful cross-light and the duration for which this was observed, records of any smoking events during the cross-light, waste gas temperature, meteorological conditions (ambient temperature, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction, and relative humidity), and whether there were any observed flare flameouts; and

(F) You must install and operate pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header, as well as a valve position indicator monitoring system for each staging valve to ensure that the flare operates within the proper range of conditions as specified by the manufacturer. The pressure monitor must meet the requirements in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.

(G) If a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is operating under the requirements of an approved alternative means of emission limitations, you must either continue to comply with the terms of the alternative means of emission limitations or comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e)(5)(viii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(ix) If you choose to determine compositional analysis for net heating value with a continuous process mass spectrometer, then you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(ix)(A) through (G) of this section.

(A) You must meet the requirements in § 63.671(e)(2). You may augment the minimum list of calibration gas components found in § 63.671(e)(2) with compounds found during a pre-survey or known to be in the gas through process knowledge.

(B) Calibration gas cylinders must be certified to an accuracy of 2 percent and traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.

(C) For unknown gas components that have similar analytical mass fragments to calibration compounds, you may report the unknowns as an increase in the overlapped calibration gas compound. For unknown compounds that produce mass fragments that do not overlap calibration compounds, you may use the response factor for the nearest molecular weight hydrocarbon in the calibration mix to quantify the unknown component's NHVvg.

(D) You may use the response factor for n-pentane to quantify any unknown components detected with a higher molecular weight than n-pentane.

(E) You must perform an initial calibration to identify mass fragment overlap and response factors for the target compounds.

(F) You must meet applicable requirements in Performance Specification 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for continuous monitoring system acceptance including, but not limited to, performing an initial multi-point calibration check at three concentrations following the procedure in Section 10.1 and performing the periodic calibration requirements listed for gas chromatographs in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part, for the process mass spectrometer. You may use the alternative sampling line temperature allowed under Net Heating Value by Gas Chromatograph in Table 13 to subpart CC of this part.

(G) The average instrument calibration error (CE) for each calibration compound at any calibration concentration must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for each component in the calibration blend must be calculated using Equation 1 to this paragraph (e)(5)(ix)(G).

(x) If you use a gas chromatograph or mass spectrometer for compositional analysis for net heating value, then you may choose to use the CE of NHVversus the cylinder tag value NHV as the measure of agreement for daily calibration and quarterly audits in lieu of determining the compound-specific CE. The CE for NHV at any calibration level must not differ by more than 10 percent from the certified cylinder gas value. The CE for must be calculated using Equation 2 to this paragraph (e)(5)(x).

(xi) Instead of complying with paragraph (q) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must comply with the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(d)(3) and (e)(11).

(xii) Instead of complying with paragraph (p) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must keep the flare monitoring records specified in § 63.2525(m).

(xiii) You may elect to comply with the alternative means of emissions limitation requirements specified in paragraph (r) of § 63.670 of subpart CC in lieu of the requirements in paragraphs (d) through (f) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, as applicable. However, instead of complying with paragraph (r)(3)(iii) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must also submit the alternative means of emissions limitation request to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, U.S. EPA Mailroom (C404-02), Attention: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703.

(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the use of a bypass line at any time on a closed vent system to divert emissions subject to the requirements in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart to the atmosphere or to a control device not meeting the requirements specified in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart is an emissions standards deviation. You must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable:

(i) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.148(f) of subpart G, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.148(f) of subpart G and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.148(j)(2) and (3) of subpart G, and (h)(3) of subpart G, in addition to the applicable requirements specified in § 63.2485(q), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).

(ii) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.172(j) of subpart H, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.172(j) of subpart H and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in § 63.118(a)(3) and (4), and (f)(3) and (4) of subpart G, in addition to the applicable requirements specified in §§ 63.2480(f) and 63.2485(q), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).

(iii) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.998(d)(1)(ii) and 63.999(c)(2) of subpart SS, in addition to the requirements specified in § 63.2450(e)(4), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).

(iv) If you are subject to the bypass monitoring requirements of § 65.143(a)(3) of this chapter, then you must continue to comply with the requirements in § 65.143(a)(3) and the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 65.163(a)(1) and 65.166(b) of this chapter; in addition to the applicable requirements specified in § 63.2480(f), the recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.2525(n), and the reporting requirements specified in § 63.2520(e)(12).

(v) For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (e)(6), §§ 63.148(f)(3) of subpart G, and 63.172(j)(3) of subpart H, the phrase "Except for equipment needed for safety purposes such as pressure relief devices, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines" in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS, and the phrase "Except for pressure relief devices needed for safety purposes, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines" in § 65.143(a)(3) of this chapter do not apply; instead, the exemptions specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(v)(A) and (B) of this section apply.

(A) Except for pressure relief devices subject to § 63.2480(e)(4), equipment such as low leg drains and equipment subject to the requirements specified in § 63.2480 are not subject to this paragraph (e)(6).

(B) Open-ended valves or lines that use a cap, blind flange, plug, or second valve and follow the requirements specified in 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) or follow requirements codified in another regulation that are the same as 40 CFR 60.482-6(a)(2), (b), and (c) are not subject to this paragraph (e)(6).

(7) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to an adsorber(s) that cannot be regenerated or a regenerative adsorber(s) that is regenerated offsite, then you must comply with paragraphs (e)(4) and (6) of this section and the requirements in § 63.983, and you must install a system of two or more adsorber units in series and comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Conduct an initial performance test or design evaluation of the adsorber and establish the breakthrough limit and adsorber bed life.

(ii) Monitor the HAP or total organic compound (TOC) concentration through a sample port at the outlet of the first adsorber bed in series according to the schedule in paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(B) of this section. You must measure the concentration of HAP or TOC using either a portable analyzer, in accordance with Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, using methane, propane, isobutylene, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, using methane, propane, or the primary HAP being controlled as the calibration gas.

(iii) Comply with paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(A) of this section, and comply with the monitoring frequency according to paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(B) of this section.

(A) The first adsorber in series must be replaced immediately when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.2550(i), is detected between the first and second adsorber. The original second adsorber (or a fresh canister) will become the new first adsorber and a fresh adsorber will become the second adsorber. For purposes of this paragraph (e)(7)(iii)(A), "immediately" means within 8 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers of 55 gallons or less, and within 24 hours of the detection of a breakthrough for adsorbers greater than 55 gallons. You must monitor at the outlet of the first adsorber within 3 days of replacement to confirm it is performing properly.

(B) Based on the adsorber bed life established according to paragraph (e)(7)(i) of this section and the date the adsorbent was last replaced, conduct monitoring to detect breakthrough at least monthly if the adsorbent has more than 2 months of life remaining, at least weekly if the adsorbent has between 2 months and 2 weeks of life remaining, and at least daily if the adsorbent has 2 weeks or less of life remaining.
