
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## https://cdx.epa.gov/

(iv) Instead of complying with paragraph (o)(2)(iii) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, if required to develop a flare management plan and submit it to the Administrator, then you must also submit all versions of the plan in portable document format (PDF) to the EPA via the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI), which can be accessed through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) (). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit a version with the CBI omitted via CEDRI. A complete plan, including information claimed to be CBI and clearly marked as CBI, must be mailed to the following address: U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, CORE CBI Office, U.S. EPA Mailroom (C404-02), Attention: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.

(v) Section 63.670(o)(3)(ii) of subpart CC and all references to § 63.670(o)(3)(ii) of subpart CC do not apply. Instead, the owner or operator must comply with the maximum flare tip velocity operating limit at all times.

(vi) Substitute "MCPU" for each occurrence of "petroleum refinery."

(vii) Each occurrence of "refinery" does not apply.

(viii) If a pressure-assisted multi-point flare is used as a control device, then you must meet the following conditions:

(A) You are not required to comply with the flare tip velocity requirements in paragraph (d) and (k) of § 63.670 of subpart CC;

(B) You must substitute "800" for each occurrence of "270" in paragraph (e) of § 63.670 of subpart CC;

(C) You must determine the 15-minute block average NHVvg using only the direct calculation method specified in in paragraph (l)(5)(ii) of § 63.670 of subpart CC;

(D) Instead of complying with paragraph (b) and (g) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, if a pressure-assisted multi-point flare uses cross-lighting on a stage of burners rather than having an individual pilot flame on each burner, then you must operate each stage of the pressure-assisted multi-point flare with a flame present at all times when regulated material is routed to that stage of burners. Each stage of burners that cross-lights in the pressure-assisted multi-point flare must have at least two pilots with at least one continuously lit and capable of igniting all regulated material that is routed to that stage of burners. Each 15-minute block during which there is at least one minute where no pilot flame is present on a stage of burners when regulated material is routed to the flare is a deviation of the standard. Deviations in different 15-minute blocks from the same event are considered separate deviations. The pilot flame(s) on each stage of burners that use cross-lighting must be continuously monitored by a thermocouple or any other equivalent device used to detect the presence of a flame;
