
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## 3

(x) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(B)() of subpart SS.

(xi) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions" in § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C) of subpart SS.

(xii) The phrase "other than a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction" from § 63.998(b)(5)(ii)(C) of subpart SS.

(xiii) The phrase "except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section" in § 63.998(b)(6)(i) of subpart SS.

(xiv) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii) of subpart SS.

(xv) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D), (E), (F), and (G) of subpart SS.

(xvi) Section 63.998(d)(3) of subpart SS.

(5) For any flare that is used to reduce organic HAP emissions from an MCPU, you may elect to comply with the requirements in this paragraph in lieu of the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein. However, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraphs (e)(2) and (f) of this section no longer apply to flares that control ethylene oxide emissions from affected sources in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550 and flares used to control emissions from MCPUs that produce olefins or polyolefins. Instead, if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a steam-assisted, air-assisted, non-assisted, or pressure-assisted multi-point flare that controls ethylene oxide emissions from affected sources in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550 or is used to control emissions from an MCPU that produces olefins or polyolefins, then you must meet the applicable requirements for flares as specified in §§ 63.670 and 63.671 of subpart CC, including the provisions in Tables 12 and 13 to subpart CC of this part, except as specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (xiii) of this section. This requirement in this paragraph (e)(5) also applies to any flare using fuel gas from a fuel gas system, of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas is derived from an MCPU that has processes and/or equipment in ethylene oxide service or that produces olefins or polyolefins, as determined on an annual average basis. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (e)(5), the following terms are defined in § 63.641 of subpart CC: Assist air, assist steam, center steam, combustion zone, combustion zone gas, flare, flare purge gas, flare supplemental gas, flare sweep gas, flare vent gas, lower steam, net heating value, perimeter assist air, pilot gas, premix assist air, total steam, and upper steam. Also, for purposes of compliance with this paragraph (e)(5), "MCPUs that produces olefins or polyolefins" includes only those MCPUs that manufacture ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, and/or polypropylene as a product. By-products and impurities as defined in § 63.101, as well as wastes and trace contaminants, are not considered products.

(i) When determining compliance with the pilot flame requirements specified in § 63.670(b) and (g), substitute "pilot flame or flare flame" for each occurrence of "pilot flame."

(ii) When determining compliance with the flare tip velocity and combustion zone operating limits specified in § 63.670(d) and (e), the requirement effectively applies starting with the 15-minute block that includes a full 15 minutes of the flaring event. You are required to demonstrate compliance with the velocity and NHVcz requirements starting with the block that contains the fifteenth minute of a flaring event. You are not required to demonstrate compliance for the previous 15-minute block in which the event started and contained only a fraction of flow.

(iii) Instead of complying with paragraph (o)(2)(i) of § 63.670 of subpart CC, you must develop and implement the flare management plan no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g).
