
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Requirements for control devices.

(e)(1) Except when complying with § 63.2485, if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to any combination of control devices (except a flare) or recovery devices, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the requirements of § 63.982(c) and the requirements referenced therein.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section or except when complying with § 63.2485, if you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a flare, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein.

(3) Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, if you use a halogen reduction device to reduce hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from halogenated vent streams, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (e)(4) of this section, and the requirements of § 63.994 and the requirements referenced therein. If you use a halogen reduction device before a combustion device, you must determine the halogen atom emission rate prior to the combustion device according to the procedures in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).

(i) Beginning on and after October 13, 2020, performance test reports must be submitted according to the procedures in § 63.2520(f).

(ii) If you use a halogen reduction device other than a scrubber, then you must submit procedures for establishing monitoring parameters to the Administrator as part of your precompliance report as specified in § 63.2520(c)(8).

(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (xvi) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with subpart SS of this part.

(i) The phrase "Except for equipment needed for safety purposes such as pressure relief devices, low leg drains, high point bleeds, analyzer vents, and open-ended valves or lines" in § 63.983(a)(3) of subpart SS.

(ii) The second sentence of § 63.983(a)(5) of subpart SS.

(iii) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.984(a) of subpart SS.

(iv) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown, and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.985(a) of subpart SS.

(v) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions" in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D) of subpart SS.

(vi) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii) of subpart SS.

(vii) The last sentence of § 63.997(e)(1)(i) of subpart SS.

(viii) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii) of subpart SS.

(ix) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns or malfunctions" in § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A) of subpart SS.
