
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Continuous parameter monitoring.

(k)The provisions in paragraphs (k)(1) through (8) of this section apply in addition to the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) in subpart SS of this part.

(1) You must comply with paragraphs (k)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (k)(1)(ii) of this section, record the results of each calibration check and all maintenance performed on the CPMS as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(A).

(ii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (k)(1)(i) of this section no longer applies. Instead, you must record the results of each calibration check and all maintenance performed on the CPMS as specified in § 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(A), except you must record all maintenance, not just preventative maintenance.

(2) When subpart SS of this part 63 uses the term "a range" or "operating range" of a monitored parameter, it means an "operating limit" for a monitored parameter for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) As an alternative to continuously measuring and recording pH as specified in §§ 63.994(c)(1)(i) and 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(D), you may elect to continuously monitor and record the caustic strength of the effluent. For halogen scrubbers used to control only batch process vents you may elect to monitor and record either the pH or the caustic strength of the scrubber effluent at least once per day.
