
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Continuous emissions monitoring systems.

(j)Each continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the requirements in § 63.8 of subpart A and paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Each CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable Performance Specification of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and the applicable Quality Assurance Procedures of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, and according to paragraph (j)(2) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (j)(1)(i) of this section. For any CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, you must also comply with procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. Locate the sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location such that you obtain representative measurements of emissions from the regulated source. For CEMS installed after August 12, 2020, conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS within 180 days of installation of the monitoring system.

(i) If you wish to use a CEMS other than a Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to measure hydrogen halide, other than hydrogen chloride, and halogen HAP or CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to measure hydrogen chloride before we promulgate a Performance Specification for such CEMS, you must prepare a monitoring plan and submit it for approval in accordance with the procedures specified in § 63.8 of subpart A.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) You must determine the calibration gases and reporting units for TOC CEMS in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 9 or 15 requirements, determine the target analyte(s) for calibration using either process knowledge of the control device inlet stream or the screening procedures of Method 18 on the control device inlet stream.

(ii) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 used to monitor performance of a combustion device, calibrate the instrument on the predominant organic HAP and report the results as carbon (C1), and use Method 25A or any approved alternative as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests.

(iii) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, used to monitor performance of a noncombustion device, determine the predominant organic HAP using either process knowledge or the screening procedures of Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, on the control device inlet stream, calibrate the monitor on the predominant organic HAP, and report the results as C. Use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, Method 320 of appendix A to this part, ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or any approved alternative as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests, and report the results as C.

(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 of subpart A and according to the applicable Performance Specification of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, except that the schedule in § 63.8(e)(4) of subpart A does not apply, and before October 13, 2020, the results of the performance evaluation must be included in the notification of compliance status report. Unless otherwise specified in this subpart, beginning on and after October 13, 2020, the results of the performance evaluation must be submitted in accordance with § 63.2520(g).

(4) The CEMS data must be reduced to operating day or operating block averages computed using valid data consistent with the data availability requirements specified in § 63.999(c)(6)(i)(B) through (D), except monitoring data also are sufficient to constitute a valid hour of data if measured values are available for at least two of the 15-minute periods during an hour when calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed. An operating block is a period of time from the beginning to end of batch operations within a process. Operating block averages may be used only for batch process vent data. In computing operating day or operating block averages to determine compliance with this subpart, you must exclude monitoring data recorded during CEMS breakdowns, out-of-control periods, repairs, maintenance periods, calibration checks, or other quality assurance activities. Out-of-control periods are as specified in § 63.8(c)(7) of subpart A.

(5) If you add supplemental gases, you must comply with paragraphs (j)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section, correct the measured concentrations in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section and § 63.2460(c)(6).

(ii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), you must use Performance Specification 3 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to certify your oxygen CEMS, and you must comply with procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F. Use Method 3A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, as the reference method when conducting a relative accuracy test audit.
