
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## 2

(iv) Recording the downstream temperature and temperature difference across the catalyst bed as specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(B)() and (c)(2)(ii) is not required.

(5) For absorbers that control organic compounds and use water as the scrubbing fluid, you must conduct monitoring and recordkeeping as specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section instead of the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements specified in §§ 63.990(c)(1), 63.993(c)(1), and 63.998(a)(2)(ii)(C).

(i) You must use a flow meter capable of providing a continuous record of the absorber influent liquid flow.

(ii) You must determine gas stream flow using one of the procedures specified in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(A) through (D).

(iii) You must record the absorber liquid-to-gas ratio averaged over the time period of any performance test.

(6) For a control device with total inlet HAP emissions less than 1 tpy, you must establish an operating limit(s) for a parameter(s) that you will measure and record at least once per averaging period (i.e., daily or block) to verify that the control device is operating properly. You may elect to measure the same parameter(s) that is required for control devices that control inlet HAP emissions equal to or greater than 1 tpy. If the parameter will not be measured continuously, you must request approval of your proposed procedure in the precompliance report. You must identify the operating limit(s) and the measurement frequency, and you must provide rationale to support how these measurements demonstrate the control device is operating properly.

(7) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the manufacturer's specifications or your written procedures must include a schedule for calibrations, preventative maintenance procedures, a schedule for preventative maintenance, and corrective actions to be taken if a calibration fails. If a CPMS calibration fails, the CPMS is considered to be inoperative until you take corrective action and the system passes calibration. You must record the nature and cause of instances when the CPMS is inoperative and the corrective action taken.

(8) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, as applicable.
