
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## i.e.,

(i) If you elect to comply with the percent reduction emission limits in tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, and carbon disulfide is the principal organic HAP component (greater than 50 percent of the HAP in the stream by volume), then you must use Method 18, or Method 15 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to measure carbon disulfide at the inlet and outlet of the control device. Use the percent reduction in carbon disulfide as a surrogate for the percent reduction in total organic HAP emissions.

(ii) If you elect to comply with the outlet TOC concentration emission limits in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, and the uncontrolled or inlet gas stream to the control device contains greater than 10 percent (volume concentration) carbon disulfide, you must use Method 18 or Method 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to separately determine the carbon disulfide concentration. Calculate the total HAP or TOC emissions by totaling the carbon disulfide emissions measured using Method 18 or 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, and the other HAP emissions measured using Method 18 or 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(4) As an alternative to using Method 18, Method 25/25A, or Method 26/26A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to comply with any of the emission limits specified in tables 1 through 7 to this subpart, you may use Method 320 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. When using Method 320, you must follow the analyte spiking procedures of section 13 of Method 320, unless you demonstrate that the complete spiking procedure has been conducted at a similar source.

(5) Section 63.997(c)(1) does not apply. For the purposes of this subpart, results of all initial compliance demonstrations must be included in the notification of compliance status report, which is due 150 days after the compliance date, as specified in § 63.2520(d)(1). If the initial compliance demonstration includes a performance test and the results are submitted electronically via CEDRI in accordance with § 63.2520(f), the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.

(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), in lieu of the requirements specified in § 63.7(e)(1) of subpart A you must conduct performance tests under such conditions as the Administrator specifies based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(7) Comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4), as applicable.
