
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2460 What requirements must I meet for batch process vents?
######## 10

(2) To calculate emissions from depressurization of a vessel without a process condenser, you must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(D)().

(3) To calculate emissions from vacuum systems for the purposes of this subpart, the receiving vessel is part of the vacuum system, and terms used in Equation 33 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart GGG, are defined as follows:

(4) To calculate uncontrolled emissions when a vessel is equipped with a process condenser, you must use the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(3)(i)(B), except as specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) You must determine the flowrate of gas (or volume of gas), partial pressures of condensables, temperature (T), and HAP molecular weight (MW) at the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or at the conditions of the dedicated receiver.

(ii) You must assume that all of the components contained in the condenser exit vent stream are in equilibrium with the same components in the exit condensate stream (except for noncondensables).

(iii) You must perform a material balance for each component.

(iv) For the emissions from gas evolution, the term for time, t, must be used in Equation 12 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart GGG.

(v) Emissions from empty vessel purging shall be calculated using Equation 36 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart GGG and the exit temperature and exit pressure conditions of the condenser or the conditions of the dedicated receiver.

(vi) You must conduct an engineering assessment as specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii) for each emission episode that is not due to vapor displacement, purging, heating, depressurization, vacuum operations, gas evolution, air drying, or empty vessel purging. The requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) through (4) of this section shall apply.

(vii) You may elect to conduct an engineering assessment if you can demonstrate to the Administrator that the methods in § 63.1257(d)(3)(i)(B) are not appropriate.

(5) You may elect to designate the batch process vents within a process as Group 1 and not calculate uncontrolled emissions if you comply with one of the situations in paragraph (b)(5)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If you comply with the alternative standard specified in § 63.2505.

(ii) If all Group 1 batch process vents within a process are controlled; you conduct the performance test under hypothetical worst case conditions, as defined in § 63.1257(b)(8)(i)(B); and the emission profile is based on capture and control system limitations as specified in § 63.1257(b)(8)(ii)(C).

(iii) If you comply with an emission limit using a flare that meets the requirements specified in § 63.987 or § 63.2450(e)(5), as applicable.

(6) You may change from Group 2 to Group 1 in accordance with either paragraph (b)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section. Before October 13, 2020, you must comply with the requirements of this section and submit the test report. Beginning on and after October 13, 2020, you must comply with the requirements of this section and submit the performance test report for the demonstration required in § 63.1257(b)(8) in accordance with § 63.2520(f).

(i) You may switch at any time after operating as Group 2 for at least 1 year so that you can show compliance with the 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr) threshold for Group 2 batch process vents for at least 365 days before the switch. You may elect to start keeping records of emissions from Group 2 batch process vents before the compliance date. Report a switch based on this provision in your next compliance report in accordance with § 63.2520(e)(10)(i).

(ii) If the conditions in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section are not applicable, you must provide a 60-day advance notice in accordance with § 63.2520(e)(10)(ii) before switching.

(7) As an alternative to determining the uncontrolled organic HAP emissions as specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and (ii), you may elect to demonstrate that non-reactive organic HAP are the only HAP used in the process and non-reactive HAP usage in the process is less than 10,000 lb/yr. You must provide data and supporting rationale in your notification of compliance status report explaining why the non-reactive organic HAP usage will be less than 10,000 lb/yr. You must keep records of the non-reactive organic HAP usage as specified in § 63.2525(e)(2) and include information in compliance reports as specified in § 63.2520(e)(5)(iv).

(c) Exceptions to the requirements in subparts SS and WW of this part 63 are specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section.
