
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2455 What requirements must I meet for continuous process vents?

(a) You must meet each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your continuous process vents, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in paragraphs (b) through (c) of this section and §§ 63.2492 and 63.2493(a) through (c).

(b) For each continuous process vent, you must either designate the vent as a Group 1 continuous process vent or determine the total resource effectiveness (TRE) index value as specified in § 63.115(d), except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You are not required to determine the Group status or the TRE index value for any continuous process vent that is combined with Group 1 batch process vents before a control device or recovery device because the requirements of § 63.2450(c)(2)(i) apply to the combined stream.

(2) When a TRE index value of 4.0 is referred to in § 63.115(d), TRE index values of 5.0 for existing affected sources and 8.0 for new and reconstructed affected sources apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When § 63.115(d) refers to "emission reductions specified in § 63.113(a)," the reductions specified in Table 1 to this subpart apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(c) If you use a recovery device to maintain the TRE above a specified threshold, you must meet the requirements of § 63.982(e) and the requirements referenced therein, except as specified in § 63.2450 and paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(1) When § 63.993 uses the phrase "the TRE index value is between the level specified in a referencing subpart and 4.0," the phrase "the TRE index value is >1.9 but &#x2264;5.0" applies for an existing affected source, and the phrase "the TRE index value is >5.0 but &#x2264;8.0" applies for a new and reconstructed affected source, for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) [Reserved]
