
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2450 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Maintenance vents.

(v)Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), you may designate a process vent as a maintenance vent if the vent is only used as a result of startup, shutdown, maintenance, or inspection of equipment where equipment is emptied, depressurized, degassed, or placed into service. You must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (v)(1) through (3) of this section for each maintenance vent. Any vent designated as a maintenance vent is only subject to the maintenance vent provisions in this paragraph (v) and the associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements in §§ 63.2525(p) and 63.2520(e)(14), respectively. You do not need to designate a maintenance vent as a Group 1 or Group 2 process vent nor identify maintenance vents in a Notification of Compliance Status report.

(1) Prior to venting to the atmosphere, remove process liquids from the equipment as much as practical and depressurize the equipment to either: A flare meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) or (5) of this section, as applicable, or a non-flare control device meeting the requirements in paragraph (e)(4) of this section and the requirements specified in § 63.982(c)(2) of subpart SS until one of the following conditions, as applicable, is met.

(i) The vapor in the equipment served by the maintenance vent has a lower explosive limit (LEL) of less than 10 percent and has an outlet concentration less than or equal to 20 ppmv hydrogen halide and halogen HAP.

(ii) If there is no ability to measure the LEL of the vapor in the equipment based on the design of the equipment, the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent is reduced to 5 pounds per square inch gauge (psig) or less. Upon opening the maintenance vent, active purging of the equipment cannot be used until the LEL of the vapors in the maintenance vent (or inside the equipment if the maintenance is a hatch or similar type of opening) is less than 10 percent.

(iii) The equipment served by the maintenance vent contains less than 50 pounds of total volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(iv) If, after applying best practices to isolate and purge equipment served by a maintenance vent, none of the applicable criterion in paragraphs (v)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section can be met prior to installing or removing a blind flange or similar equipment blind, then the pressure in the equipment served by the maintenance vent must be reduced to 2 psig or less before installing or removing the equipment blind. During installation or removal of the equipment blind, active purging of the equipment may be used provided the equipment pressure at the location where purge gas is introduced remains at 2 psig or less.

(2) Except for maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (v)(1)(iii) of this section, you must determine the LEL or, if applicable, equipment pressure using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.

(3) For maintenance vents complying with the alternative in paragraph (v)(1)(iii) of this section, you must determine mass of VOC in the equipment served by the maintenance vent based on the equipment size and contents after considering any contents drained or purged from the equipment. Equipment size may be determined from equipment design specifications. Equipment contents may be determined using process knowledge.
