
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2460 What requirements must I meet for batch process vents?
######## Initial compliance.

(2)(i) To demonstrate initial compliance with a percent reduction emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart, you must compare the sums of the controlled and uncontrolled emissions for the applicable Group 1 batch process vents within the process, and show that the specified reduction is met. This requirement does not apply if you comply with the emission limits of Table 2 to this subpart by using a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.987 or 63.2450(e)(5), as applicable.

(ii) When you conduct a performance test or design evaluation for a non-flare control device used to control emissions from batch process vents, you must establish emission profiles and conduct the test under worst-case conditions according to § 63.1257(b)(8) instead of under normal operating conditions as specified in § 63.7(e)(1) of subpart A or the conditions as specified in § 63.2450(g)(6). The requirements in § 63.997(e)(1)(i) and (iii) also do not apply for performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits for batch process vents. For purposes of this subpart, references in § 63.997(b)(1) to "methods specified in § 63.997(e)" include the methods specified in § 63.1257(b)(8).

(iii) As an alternative to conducting a performance test or design evaluation to demonstrate initial compliance with a percent reduction requirement for a condenser, you may determine controlled emissions using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(3)(i)(B) and paragraphs (b)(3) through (4) of this section.
