
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2460 What requirements must I meet for batch process vents?
######## Establishing operating limits.

(3)You must establish operating limits under the conditions required for your initial compliance demonstration, except you may elect to establish operating limit(s) for conditions other than those under which a performance test was conducted as specified in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section and, if applicable, paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) The operating limits may be based on the results of the performance test and supplementary information such as engineering assessments and manufacturer's recommendations. These limits may be established for conditions as unique as individual emission episodes for a batch process. You must provide rationale in the precompliance report for the specific level for each operating limit, including any data and calculations used to develop the limit and a description of why the limit indicates proper operation of the control device. The procedures provided in this paragraph (c)(3)(i) have not been approved by the Administrator and determination of the operating limit using these procedures is subject to review and approval by the Administrator.

(ii) If you elect to establish separate monitoring levels for different emission episodes within a batch process, you must maintain records in your daily schedule or log of processes indicating each point at which you change from one operating limit to another, even if the duration of the monitoring for an operating limit is less than 15 minutes. You must maintain a daily schedule or log of processes according to ยง 63.2525(c).
