
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2465 What requirements must I meet for process vents that emit hydrogen halide and halogen HAP or HAP metals?

(a) You must meet each emission limit in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you, and you must meet each applicable requirement in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(b) If any process vents within a process emit hydrogen halide and halogen HAP, you must determine and sum the uncontrolled hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from each of the process vents within the process using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and/or (ii), as appropriate. When § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii)(E) requires documentation to be submitted in the precompliance report, it means the notification of compliance status report for the purposes of this paragraph.

(c) If collective uncontrolled hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from the process vents within a process are greater than or equal to 1,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), you must comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4) and the requirements of § 63.994 and the requirements referenced therein, except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) When § 63.994(b)(1) requires a performance test, you may elect to conduct a design evaluation in accordance with § 63.1257(a)(1).

(2) When § 63.994(b)(1) refers to "a combustion device followed by a halogen scrubber or other halogen reduction device," it means any combination of control devices used to meet the emission limits specified in Table 3 to this subpart.

(3) Section 63.994(b)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this section.

(d) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 3 to this subpart for HAP metals at a new source, you must comply with paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Determine the mass emission rate of HAP metals based on process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data.

(2) Conduct an initial performance test of each control device that is used to comply with the emission limit for HAP metals specified in Table 3 to this subpart. Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in §§ 63.2450(g) and 63.997. Use Method 29 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to determine the HAP metals at the inlet and outlet of each control device, or use Method 5 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, to determine the total particulate matter (PM) at the inlet and outlet of each control device. You may use ASTM D6784-02 (Reapproved 2008) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) as an alternative to Method 29 (portion for mercury only) as a method for measuring mercury concentrations of 0.5 to 100 micrograms per standard cubic meter. You have demonstrated initial compliance if the overall reduction of either HAP metals or total PM from the process is greater than or equal to 97 percent by weight.

(3) Comply with the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.1366(b)(1)(xi) for each fabric filter used to control HAP metals.
