
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2470 What requirements must I meet for storage tanks?
######## Exceptions to subparts SS and WW of this part.

(c)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, if you conduct a performance test or design evaluation for a control device used to control emissions only from storage tanks, you must establish operating limits, conduct monitoring, and keep records using the same procedures as required in subpart SS of this part for control devices used to reduce emissions from process vents instead of the procedures specified in §§ 63.985(c), 63.998(d)(2)(i), and 63.999(b)(2). You must also comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4), as applicable.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, when the term "storage vessel" is used in subparts SS and WW of this part, the term "storage tank," as defined in § 63.2550 applies for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) For adsorbers that cannot be regenerated or regenerative adsorbers that are regenerated offsite, you must comply with the monitoring requirements in § 63.2450(e)(7) in lieu of § 63.995(c).

(4) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(i), you must comply with paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The exemptions for "vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities" and "pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere" listed in the definition of "storage tank" in § 63.2550 do not apply for storage tanks in ethylene oxide service.

(ii) For storage tanks in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550, you may not use a design evaluation to determine the percent reduction of any control device that is used to comply with an emission limit specified in Table 4 to this subpart.
