
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2470 What requirements must I meet for storage tanks?
######## Storage tank degassing.,i.e.,

(f)Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), for each storage tank subject to item 1 of Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section during storage tank shutdown operations (emptying and degassing of a storage tank) until the vapor space concentration in the storage tank is less than 10 percent of the LEL. You must determine the LEL using process instrumentation or portable measurement devices and follow procedures for calibration and maintenance according to manufacturer's specifications.

(1) Remove liquids from the storage tank as much as practicable.

(2) Comply with one of the following:

(i) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by venting emissions through a closed vent system to a flare.

(ii) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by 95 weight-percent by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of non-flare control devices.

(iii) Reduce emissions of total organic HAP by routing emissions to a fuel gas system or process and meet the requirements specified in § 63.982(d) and the applicable requirements in § 63.2450(e)(4).

(3) Maintain records necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements in § 63.2450(u) including, if appropriate, records of existing standard site procedures used to empty and degas (deinventory) equipment for safety purposes.
