
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.155 Permit requirements.
######## Additional provisions.

(7)The permit must also contain provisions stating the requirements in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) You, as the permittee, must comply with all conditions of your permit, including emission limitations that apply to the affected emissions units at your source. Noncompliance with any permit term or condition is a violation of the permit and may constitute a violation of the Act and is grounds for enforcement action and for a permit termination or revocation.

(ii) Your permitted source must not cause or contribute to a NAAQS violation or in an attainment area, must not cause or contribute to a PSD increment violation.

(iii) It is not a defense for you, as the permittee, in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.

(iv) The permit may be revised, reopened, revoked and reissued or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by you, as the permittee, for a permit revision, revocation and re-issuance or termination or of a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit condition.

(v) The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort or any exclusive privilege.

(vi) You, as the permittee, shall furnish to the reviewing authority, within a reasonable time, any information that the reviewing authority may request in writing to determine whether cause exists for revising, revoking and reissuing or terminating the permit or to determine compliance with the permit. For any such information claimed to be confidential, you must also submit a claim of confidentiality in accordance with part 2, subpart B of this chapter.

(vii) Upon presentation of proper credentials, you, as the permittee, must allow a representative of the reviewing authority to:

(A) Enter upon your premises where a source is located or emissions-related activity is conducted or where records are required to be kept under the conditions of the permit;

(B) Have access to and copy, at reasonable times, any records that are required to be kept under the conditions of the permit;

(C) Inspect, during normal business hours or while the source is in operation, any facilities, equipment (including monitoring and air pollution control equipment), practices or operations regulated or required under the permit;

(D) Sample or monitor, at reasonable times, substances or parameters for the purpose of assuring compliance with the permit or other applicable requirements and

(E) Record any inspection by use of written, electronic, magnetic and photographic media.
