
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2470 What requirements must I meet for storage tanks?
######## Vapor balancing alternative.

(e)As an alternative to the emission limits specified in Table 4 to this subpart, you may elect to implement vapor balancing in accordance with § 63.1253(f), except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) When § 63.1253(f)(6)(i) refers to a 90 percent reduction, 95 percent applies for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) To comply with § 63.1253(f)(6)(i), the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning or reloading facility must comply with §§ 63.2445 through 63.2550 instead of complying with § 63.1253(f)(7)(ii), except as specified in paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The reporting requirements in § 63.2520 do not apply to the owner or operator of the offsite cleaning or reloading facility.

(ii) As an alternative to complying with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in §§ 63.2445 through 63.2550, the owner or operator of an offsite cleaning or reloading facility may comply as specified in § 63.2535(a)(2) with any other subpart of this part 63 which has monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions as specified in § 63.2535(a)(2).

(3) You may elect to set a pressure relief device to a value less than the 2.5 psig required in § 63.1253(f)(5) if you provide rationale in your notification of compliance status report explaining why the alternative value is sufficient to prevent breathing losses at all times.

(4) You may comply with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.1253(f) when your storage tank is filled from a barge. All requirements for tank trucks and railcars specified in § 63.1253(f) also apply to barges, except as specified in § 63.2470(e)(4)(i).

(i) When § 63.1253(f)(2) refers to pressure testing certifications, the requirements in 40 CFR 61.304(f) apply for barges.

(ii) [Reserved]
