
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2480 What requirements must I meet for equipment leaks?

(a) You must meet each requirement in Table 6 to this subpart that applies to your equipment leaks, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. For each light liquid pump, valve, and connector in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550(i), you must also meet the applicable requirements specified in §§ 63.2492 and 63.2493(d) and (e).

(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (b)(6) and (7) of this section, if you comply with either subpart H or UU of this part, you may elect to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section as an alternative to the referenced provisions in subpart H or UU of this part.

(1) The requirements for pressure testing in § 63.178(b) or § 63.1036(b) may be applied to all processes, not just batch processes.

(2) For the purposes of this subpart, pressure testing for leaks in accordance with § 63.178(b) or § 63.1036(b) is not required after reconfiguration of an equipment train if flexible hose connections are the only disturbed equipment.

(3) For an existing source, you are not required to develop an initial list of identification numbers for connectors as would otherwise be required under § 63.1022(b)(1) or § 63.181(b)(1)(i).

(4) For connectors in gas/vapor and light liquid service at an existing source, you may elect to comply with the requirements in § 63.169 or § 63.1029 for connectors in heavy liquid service, including all associated recordkeeping and reporting requirements, rather than the requirements of § 63.174 or § 63.1027.

(5) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section, for pumps in light liquid service in an MCPU that has no continuous process vents and is part of an existing source, you may elect to consider the leak definition that defines a leak to be 10,000 parts per million (ppm) or greater as an alternative to the values specified in § 63.1026(b)(2)(i) through (iii) or § 63.163(b)(2).

(6) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(h), paragraph (b)(5) of this section no longer applies.

(7) For each piece of equipment that is subject to Table 6 to this subpart and is also subject to periodic monitoring with EPA Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, and is added to an affected source after December 17, 2019, or replaces equipment at an affected source after December 17, 2019, you must initially monitor for leaks within 30 days after August 12, 2020, or initial startup of the equipment, whichever is later. Equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor is not subject to this paragraph (b)(7).

(c) Except as specified in paragraphs (c)(10) and (11) of this section, if you comply with 40 CFR part 65, subpart F, you may elect to comply with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section as an alternative to the referenced provisions in 40 CFR part 65, subpart F.

(1) The requirements for pressure testing in § 65.117(b) may be applied to all processes, not just batch processes.

(2) For the purposes of this subpart, pressure testing for leaks in accordance with § 65.117(b) is not required after reconfiguration of an equipment train if flexible hose connections are the only disturbed equipment.

(3) For an existing source, you are not required to develop an initial list of identification numbers for connectors as would otherwise be required under § 65.103(b)(1).

(4) You may elect to comply with the monitoring and repair requirements specified in § 65.108(e)(3) as an alternative to the requirements specified in § 65.108(a) through (d) for any connectors at your affected source.

(5) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(10) of this section, for pumps in light liquid service in an MCPU that has no continuous process vents and is part of an existing source, you may elect to consider the leak definition that defines a leak to be 10,000 ppm or greater as an alternative to the values specified in § 65.107(b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this chapter.

(6) When 40 CFR part 65, subpart F refers to the implementation date specified in § 65.1(f), it means the compliance date specified in § 63.2445.

(7) When §§ 65.105(f) and 65.117(d)(3) refer to § 65.4, it means § 63.2525.

(8) When § 65.120(a) refers to § 65.5(d), it means § 63.2515.

(9) When § 65.120(b) refers to § 65.5(e), it means § 63.2520.

(10) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(h), paragraph (c)(5) of this section no longer applies.

(11) For each piece of equipment that is subject to Table 6 to this subpart and is also subject to periodic monitoring with EPA Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, and is added to an affected source after December 17, 2019, or replaces equipment at an affected source after December 17, 2019, you must initially monitor for leaks within 30 days after August 12, 2020, or initial startup of the equipment, whichever is later. Equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor is not subject to this paragraph (c)(11).

(d) The provisions of this section do not apply to bench-scale processes, regardless of whether the processes are located at the same plant site as a process subject to the provisions of this subpart.

(e) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), except as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section for pressure relief devices, such as relief valves or rupture disks, in organic HAP gas or vapor service instead of the pressure relief device requirements of § 63.1030 of subpart UU, § 63.165 of subpart H, or § 65.111 of this chapter. Except as specified in paragraphs (e)(4) and (5) of this section, you must also comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(3), (6), (7), and (8) of this section for all pressure relief devices in organic HAP service.
