
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2490 What requirements must I meet for heat exchange systems?

(a) You must comply with each requirement in Table 10 to this subpart that applies to your heat exchange systems, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(b) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, if you comply with the requirements of § 63.104 as specified in Table 10 to this subpart, then the phrase "a chemical manufacturing process unit meeting the conditions of § 63.100 (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this subpart" in § 63.104(a) means "an MCPU meeting the conditions of § 63.2435" for the purposes of this subpart.

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, if you comply with the requirements of § 63.104 as specified in Table 10 to this subpart, then the reference to "§ 63.100(c)" in § 63.104(a) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) Unless one or more of the conditions specified in § 63.104(a)(1), (2), (5), and (6) are met, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the requirements of § 63.104 as specified in Table 10 to this subpart and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section no longer apply. Instead, you must monitor the cooling water for the presence of total strippable hydrocarbons that indicate a leak according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and if you detect a leak, then you must repair it according to paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, unless repair is delayed according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section. At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), you may choose to comply with the requirements in this paragraph (d) in lieu of the requirements of § 63.104 as specified in Table 10 to this subpart and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. The requirements in this paragraph (d) do not apply to heat exchange systems that have a maximum cooling water flow rate of 10 gallons per minute or less.

(1) You must perform monitoring to identify leaks of total strippable hydrocarbons from each heat exchange system subject to the requirements of this subpart according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.
