
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2485 What requirements must I meet for wastewater streams and liquid streams in open systems within an MCPU?
######## Offsite management and treatment option.

(i)(1) If you ship wastewater to an offsite treatment facility that meets the requirements of § 63.138(h), you may elect to document in your notification of compliance status report that the wastewater will be treated as hazardous waste at a facility that meets the requirements of § 63.138(h) as an alternative to having the offsite facility submit the certification specified in § 63.132(g)(2).

(2) As an alternative to the management and treatment options specified in § 63.132(g)(2), any affected wastewater stream (or residual removed from an affected wastewater stream) with a total annual average concentration of compounds in Table 8 to this subpart less than 50 ppmw may be transferred offsite in accordance with paragraphs (i)(2) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The transferee (or you) must demonstrate that less than 5 percent of the HAP in Table 9 to this subpart is emitted from the waste management units up to the activated sludge unit.

(ii) The transferee must treat the wastewater stream or residual in a biological treatment unit in accordance with the requirement in paragraph (i)(2)(iii) of this section and the requirements of §§ 63.138 and 63.145 and the requirements referenced therein.

(iii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the requirement of § 63.145(a)(3) no longer applies. Instead, the transferee must comply with the conditions specified in § 63.2450(g)(6).

(j) You must determine the annual average concentration and annual average flowrate for wastewater streams for each MCPU. The procedures for flexible operation units specified in § 63.144 (b) and (c) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart.
