
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2485 What requirements must I meet for wastewater streams and liquid streams in open systems within an MCPU?
######## Requirements for liquid streams in open systems.

(l)(1) References in § 63.149 to § 63.100(b) mean § 63.2435(b) for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When § 63.149(e) refers to 40 CFR 63.100(l) (1) or (2), § 63.2445(a) applies for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When § 63.149 uses the term "chemical manufacturing process unit," the term "MCPU" applies for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) When § 63.149(e)(1) refers to characteristics of water that contain compounds in Table 9 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the characteristics specified in paragraphs (c) (1) through (3) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(5) When § 63.149(e)(2) refers to characteristics of water that contain compounds in Table 9 to 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the characteristics specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(m) When § 63.132(f) refers to "a concentration of greater than 10,000 ppmw of table 9 compounds," the phrase "a concentration of greater than 30,000 ppmw of total partially soluble HAP (PSHAP) and soluble HAP (SHAP) or greater than 10,000 ppmw of PSHAP" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.
