
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2485 What requirements must I meet for wastewater streams and liquid streams in open systems within an MCPU?
######## Alternative requirements for wastewater that is Group 1 for soluble HAP only.

(n)The option specified in this paragraph (n) applies to wastewater that is Group 1 for soluble HAP in accordance with paragraph (c)(3) of this section and is discharged to biological treatment. Except as provided in paragraph (n)(4) of this section, this option does not apply to wastewater that is Group 1 for partially soluble HAP in accordance with paragraph (c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(4) of this section. For wastewater that is Group 1 for SHAP, you need not comply with §§ 63.133 through 63.137 for any equalization unit, neutralization unit, and/or clarifier prior to the activated sludge unit, and you need not comply with the venting requirements in § 63.136(e)(2)(ii)(A) for lift stations with a volume larger than 10,000 gal, provided you comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section and all otherwise applicable requirements specified in table 7 to this subpart. For this option, the treatment requirements in § 63.138 and the performance testing requirements in § 63.145 do not apply to the biological treatment unit, except as specified in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(1) Wastewater must be hard-piped between the equalization unit, clarifier, and activated sludge unit. This requirement does not apply to the transfer between any of these types of units that are part of the same structure and one unit overflows into the next.

(2) Calculate the destruction efficiency of the biological treatment unit using Equation 1 to this paragraph (n)(2) in accordance with the procedures described in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section. You have demonstrated initial compliance if E is greater than or equal to 90 percent.

(i) Include all PSHAP and SHAP compounds in both Group 1 and Group 2 wastewater streams from all MCPU, except you may exclude any compounds that meet the criteria specified in § 63.145(a)(6)(ii) or (iii).

(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (n)(2)(vii) of this section, conduct the demonstration under representative process unit and treatment unit operating conditions in accordance with § 63.145(a)(3) and (4).

(iii) Determine PSHAP and SHAP concentrations and the total wastewater flow rate at the inlet to the equalization unit in accordance with § 63.145(f)(1) and (2). References in § 63.145(f)(1) and (2) to required mass removal and actual mass removal do not apply for the purposes of this section.

(iv) Determine Ffor the activated sludge unit as specified in § 63.145(h), except as specified in paragraph (n)(2)(iv)(A) or paragraph (n)(2)(iv)(B) of this section.

(A) If the biological treatment process meets both of the requirements specified in § 63.145(h)(1)(i) and (ii), you may elect to replace the Fterm in Equation 1 to paragraph (n)(2) of this section with the numeral "1."

(B) You may elect to assume fis zero for any compounds on List 2 of table 36 in subpart G.

(v) Determine QMG, QMG, and QMGusing EPA's WATER9 model or the most recent update to this model, and conduct testing or use other procedures to validate the modeling results.

(vi) Submit the data and results of your demonstration, including both a description of and the results of your WATER9 modeling validation procedures, in your notification of compliance status report as specified in § 63.2520(d)(2)(ii).

(vii) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the requirement of § 63.145(a)(3) no longer applies. Instead, you must comply with the conditions specified in § 63.2450(g)(6).

(3) As an alternative to the venting requirements in § 63.136(e)(2)(ii)(A), a lift station with a volume larger than 10,000 gal may have openings necessary for proper venting of the lift station. The size and other design characteristics of these openings may be established based on manufacturer recommendations or engineering judgment for venting under normal operating conditions. You must describe the design of such openings and your supporting calculations and other rationale in your notification of compliance status report.

(4) For any wastewater streams that are Group 1 for both PSHAP and SHAP, you may elect to meet the requirements specified in Table 7 to this subpart for the PSHAP and then comply with paragraphs (n)(1) through (3) of this section for the SHAP in the wastewater system. You may determine the SHAP mass removal rate, in kg/hr, in treatment units that are used to meet the requirements for PSHAP and add this amount to both the numerator and denominator in Equation 1 to paragraph (n)(2) of this section.
