
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2493 What requirements must I meet for process vents, storage tanks, or equipment that are in ethylene oxide service?
######## Initial compliance.

(a)For initial compliance, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If you choose to reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a flare as specified in Table 1, 2, or 4 to this subpart, then you must comply with § 63.2450(e)(4) and (6) and the requirements in § 63.983, and you must conduct the initial visible emissions demonstration required by § 63.670(h) of subpart CC as specified in § 63.2450(e)(5).

(2) If you choose to reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces ethylene oxide by greater than or equal to 99.9 percent by weight as specified in Table 1, 2, or 4 to this subpart, then you must comply with § 63.2450(e)(4) and (6) and the requirements in § 63.983, and you must comply with paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the percent reduction requirement at the inlet and outlet of the control device. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (a)(2), you may not use a design evaluation.

(ii) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in §§ 63.997 and 63.2450(g). Use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the ethylene oxide concentration. Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, to select the sampling sites at each sampling location. Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.

(iii) Calculate the mass emission rate of ethylene oxide entering the control device and exiting the control device using Equations 1 and 2 to this paragraph (a)(2)(iii).

(iv) Calculate the percent reduction from the control device using Equation 3 to this paragraph (a)(2)(iv). You have demonstrated initial compliance if the overall reduction of ethylene oxide is greater than or equal to 99.9 percent by weight.

(v) If a new control device is installed, then conduct a performance test of the new device following the procedures in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(vi) If you vent emissions through a closed-vent system to a scrubber, then you must establish operating parameter limits by monitoring the operating parameters specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section during the performance test.

(A) Scrubber liquid-to-gas ratio (L/G), determined from the total scrubber liquid inlet flow rate and the exit gas flow rate. Determine the average L/G during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.

(B) Scrubber liquid pH of the liquid in the reactant tank. The pH may be measured at any point between the discharge from the scrubber column and the inlet to the reactant tank. Determine the average pH during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.

(C) Temperature of the water entering the scrubber column. The temperature may be measured at any point after the heat exchanger and prior to entering the top of the scrubber column. Determine the average inlet water temperature as the average of the test run averages.

(vii) If you vent emissions through a closed-vent system to a thermal oxidizer, then you must establish operating parameter limits by monitoring the operating parameters specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(vii)(A) and (B) of this section during the performance test.

(A) Combustion chamber temperature. Determine the average combustion chamber temperature during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.

(B) Flue gas flow rate. Determine the average flue gas flow rate during the performance test as the average of the test run averages.

(viii) If you vent emissions through a closed-vent system to a control device other than a flare, scrubber, or thermal oxidizer, then you must notify the Administrator of the operating parameters that you plan to monitor during the performance test prior to establishing operating parameter limits for the control device.

(3) If you choose to reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces ethylene oxide to less than 1 ppmv as specified in Table 1, 2, or 4 to this subpart, then you must comply with § 63.2450(e)(4) and (6) and the requirements in § 63.983, and you must comply with either paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Install an FTIR CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, to continuously monitor the ethylene oxide concentration at the exit of the control device. Comply with the requirements specified in § 63.2450(j) for your CEMS.

(ii) If you do not install a CEMS under paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the concentration requirement at the outlet of the control device.

(B) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in §§ 63.997 and 63.2450(g). Use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the ethylene oxide concentration. You have demonstrated initial compliance if the ethylene oxide concentration is less than 1 ppmv.

(C) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.

(4) If you choose to reduce emissions of ethylene oxide by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device that reduces ethylene oxide to less than 5 pounds per year for all combined process vents as specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, then you must comply with § 63.2450(e)(4) and (6) and the requirements in § 63.983, and you must comply with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Conduct an initial performance test of the control device that is used to comply with the mass emission limit requirement at the outlet of the control device.

(ii) Conduct the performance test according to the procedures in §§ 63.997 and 63.2450(g). Use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, or Method 320 of appendix A to this part to determine the ethylene oxide concentration. Use Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, to select the sampling site. Determine the gas volumetric flowrate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Use Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, to convert the volumetric flowrate to a dry basis.

(iii) Calculate the mass emission rate of ethylene oxide exiting the control device using Equation 2 to paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section. You have demonstrated initial compliance if the ethylene oxide from all process vents (controlled and uncontrolled) is less than 5 pounds per year when combined.

(iv) Comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(v) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.
