
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2492 How do I determine whether my process vent, storage tank, or equipment is in ethylene oxide service?

To determine if process vents, storage tanks, and equipment leaks are in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550(i), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section, as applicable.

(a) For each batch process vent or continuous process vent stream, you must measure the flow rate and concentration of ethylene oxide of each process vent as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Measurements must be made prior to any dilution of the vent streams.

(2) Measurements may be made on the combined vent streams at an MCPU or for each separate vent stream.

(3) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, must be used for the selection of the sampling sites. For vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter, sample at one point at the center of the duct.

(4) The gas volumetric flow rate must be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1 and A-2, as appropriate.

(5) The concentration of ethylene oxide must be determined using Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, or Method 320 of appendix A to this part.

(b) For storage tanks, you must measure the concentration of ethylene oxide of the fluid stored in the storage tanks using Method 624.1 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A, or preparation by Method 5031 and analysis by Method 8260D (both incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) in the SW-846 Compendium. In lieu of preparation by SW-846 Method 5031, you may use SW-846 Method 5030B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), as long as: You do not use a preservative in the collected sample; you store the sample with minimal headspace as cold as possible and at least below 4 degrees C; and you analyze the sample as soon as possible, but in no case longer than 7 days from the time the sample was collected. If you are collecting a sample from a pressure vessel, you must maintain the sample under pressure both during and following sampling.

(c) For equipment leaks, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Each piece of equipment within an MCPU that can reasonably be expected to contain equipment in ethylene oxide service is presumed to be in ethylene oxide service unless you demonstrate that the piece of equipment is not in ethylene oxide service. For a piece of equipment to be considered not in ethylene oxide service, it must be determined that the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts equipment can be reasonably expected to not exceed 0.1 percent by weight on an annual average basis. For purposes of determining the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid, you must use Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, for gaseous process fluid, and Method 624.1 of 40 CFR part 136, appendix A, or preparation by Method 5031 and analysis by Method 8260D (both incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) in the SW-846 Compendium for liquid process fluid. In lieu of preparation by SW-846 Method 5031, you may use SW-846 Method 5030B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), as long as: You do not use a preservative in the collected sample; you store the sample with minimal headspace as cold as possible and at least below 4 degrees C; and you analyze the sample as soon as possible, but in no case longer than 7 days from the time the sample was collected.

(2) Unless specified by the Administrator, you may use good engineering judgment rather than the procedures specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section to determine that the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts equipment does not exceed 0.1 percent by weight.

(3) You may revise your determination for whether a piece of equipment is in ethylene oxide service by following the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or by documenting that a change in the process or raw materials no longer causes the equipment to be in ethylene oxide service.

(4) Samples used in determining the ethylene oxide content must be representative of the process fluid that is contained in or contacts the equipment.
