
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2493 What requirements must I meet for process vents, storage tanks, or equipment that are in ethylene oxide service?
######## Equipment in ethylene oxide service.

(d)Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) and (e) of this section, for equipment in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550(i), you must comply with the requirements of subpart UU or H of this part, or 40 CFR part 65, subpart F.

(1) For pumps in ethylene oxide service, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The instrument reading that defines a leak for pumps is 1,000 parts per million or greater.

(ii) The monitoring period for pumps is monthly.

(iii) When a leak is detected, it must be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected.

(2) For connectors in ethylene oxide service, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The instrument reading that defines a leak for connectors is 500 parts per million or greater.

(ii) The monitoring period for connectors is once every 12 months.

(iii) When a leak is detected, it must be repaired as soon as practicable, but not later than 15 calendar days after it is detected.

(3) For each light liquid pump or connector in ethylene oxide service that is added to an affected source, and for each light liquid pump or connector in ethylene oxide service that replaces a light liquid pump or connector in ethylene oxide service, you must initially monitor for leaks within 5 days after initial startup of the equipment.

(4) Pressure relief devices in ethylene oxide service must comply with the requirements in § 63.2480(e) and (f), except as specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The second sentence in § 63.2480(e)(3)(iv) does not apply.

(ii) Section 63.2480(e)(3)(v) does not apply.

(iii) Section 63.2480(e)(6)(ii) does not apply.

(iv) Any release event from an affected pressure relief device is a deviation of the pressure release management work practice standards.

(v) Replace all references to § 63.2445(g) with § 63.2445(h).
