
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2493 What requirements must I meet for process vents, storage tanks, or equipment that are in ethylene oxide service?
######## Non-applicable referenced provisions.

(e)The referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (15) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this section.

(1) Section 63.163(c)(3) of subpart H.

(2) Section 63.163(e) of subpart H.

(3) The second sentence of § 63.181(d)(5)(i) of subpart H.

(4) Section 63.1026(b)(3) of subpart UU.

(5) Section 63.1026(e) of subpart UU.

(6) The phrase "(except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A) of subpart UU.

(7) The phrase "(except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1031(b)(1) of subpart UU.

(8) The second sentence of § 65.105(f)(4)(i) of this chapter.

(9) Section 65.107(b)(3) of this chapter.

(10) Section 65.107(e) of this chapter.

(11) The phrase "(except during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 65.109(e)(1)(i)(A) of this chapter.

(12) The phrase "(except during periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 65.112(b)(1) of this chapter.

(13) The last sentence of § 65.115(b)(1) of this chapter.

(14) The last sentence of § 65.115(b)(2) of this chapter.

(15) For flares complying with § 63.2450(e)(5), the following provisions do not apply:

(i) Section 63.172(d) of subpart H;

(ii) Section 63.180(e) of subpart H;

(iii) Section 63.181(g)(1)(iii) of subpart H;

(iv) The phrase "including periods when a flare pilot light system does not have a flame" from § 63.181(g)(2)(i) of subpart H;

(v) Section 63.1034(b)(2)(iii) of subpart H; and

(vi) Section 65.115(b)(2) of this chapter.

(16) Requirements for maintenance vents in § 63.2450(v).
