
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Alternative Means of Compliance
####### ยง 63.2495 How do I comply with the pollution prevention standard?

(a) You may elect to comply with the pollution prevention alternative requirements specified in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section in lieu of the emission limitations and work practice standards contained in Tables 1 through 7 to this subpart for any MCPU for which initial startup occurred before April 4, 2002.

(1) You must reduce the production-indexed HAP consumption factor (HAP factor) by at least 65 percent from a 3-year average baseline beginning no earlier than the 1994 through 1996 calendar years. For any reduction in the HAP factor that you achieve by reducing HAP that are also volatile organic compounds (VOC), you must demonstrate an equivalent reduction in the production-indexed VOC consumption factor (VOC factor) on a mass basis. For any reduction in the HAP factor that you achieve by reducing a HAP that is not a VOC, you may not increase the VOC factor.

(2) Any MCPU for which you seek to comply by using the pollution prevention alternative must begin with the same starting material(s) and end with the same product(s). You may not comply by eliminating any steps of a process by transferring the step offsite (to another manufacturing location). You may also not merge a solvent recovery step conducted offsite to onsite and as part of an existing process as a method of reducing consumption.

(3) You may comply with the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a series of processes, including situations where multiple processes are merged, if you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the multiple processes were merged after the baseline period into an existing process or processes.
