
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2493 What requirements must I meet for process vents, storage tanks, or equipment that are in ethylene oxide service?
######## Pressure vessels.

(c)If you have a storage tank in ethylene oxide service that is considered a pressure vessel as defined in as defined in § 63.2550(i), then you must operate and maintain the pressure vessel, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The pressure vessel must be designed to operate with no detectable emissions at all times.

(2) Monitor each point on the pressure vessel through which ethylene oxide could potentially be emitted by conducting initial and annual performance tests using Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7.

(3) Each instrument reading greater than 500 ppmv is a deviation.

(4) Estimate the flow rate and total regulated material emissions from the defect. Assume the pressure vessel has been emitting for half of the time since the last performance test, unless other information supports a different assumption.

(5) Whenever ethylene oxide is in the pressure vessel, you must operate the pressure vessel as a closed system that vents through a closed vent system to a control device as specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) For closed vent systems, comply with § 63.2450(e)(4) and (6) and the requirements in § 63.983.

(ii) For a non-flare control device, comply with requirements as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) For a flare, comply with the requirements of § 63.2450(e)(5).
