
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Alternative Means of Compliance
####### ยง 63.2505 How do I comply with the alternative standard?
######## Emission limits and work practice standards.

(a)(1) You must route vent streams through a closed-vent system to a control device that reduces HAP emissions as specified in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If you use a combustion control device, it must reduce HAP emissions as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section.

(A) To an outlet TOC concentration of 20 parts per million by volume (ppmv) or less.

(B) To an outlet concentration of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP of 20 ppmv or less.

(C) As an alternative to paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section, if you control halogenated vent streams emitted from a combustion device followed by a scrubber, reduce the hydrogen halide and halogen HAP generated in the combustion device by greater than or equal to 95 percent by weight in the scrubber.

(ii) If you use a noncombustion control device(s), it must reduce HAP emissions to an outlet total organic HAP concentration of 50 ppmv or less, and an outlet concentration of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP of 50 ppmv or less.

(2) Any Group 1 process vents within a process that are not controlled according to this alternative standard must be controlled according to the emission limits in tables 1 through 3 to this subpart.
