
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Alternative Means of Compliance
####### § 63.2500 How do I comply with emissions averaging?

(a) For an existing source, you may elect to comply with the percent reduction emission limitations in Tables 1, 2, 4, 5, and 7 to this subpart by complying with the emissions averaging provisions specified in § 63.150, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(b) The batch process vents in an MCPU collectively are considered one individual emission point for the purposes of emissions averaging, except that only individual batch process vents must be excluded to meet the requirements of § 63.150(d)(5).

(c) References in § 63.150 to §§ 63.112 through 63.130 mean the corresponding requirements in §§ 63.2450 through 63.2490, including applicable monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting.

(d) References to "periodic reports" in § 63.150 mean "compliance report" for the purposes of this subpart.

(e) For batch process vents, estimate uncontrolled emissions for a standard batch using the procedures in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i) and (ii) instead of the procedures in § 63.150(g)(2). Multiply the calculated emissions per batch by the number of batches per month when calculating the monthly emissions for use in calculating debits and credits.

(f) References to "storage vessels" in § 63.150 mean "storage tank" as defined in § 63.2550 for the purposes of this subpart.

(g) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), § 63.150(f)(2) does not apply when demonstrating compliance with this section.
