
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2520 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Precompliance report.

(c)You must submit a precompliance report to request approval for any of the items in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section. We will either approve or disapprove the report within 90 days after we receive it. If we disapprove the report, you must still be in compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards in this subpart by the compliance date. To change any of the information submitted in the report, you must notify us 60 days before the planned change is to be implemented.

(1) Requests for approval to set operating limits for parameters other than those specified in §§ 63.2455 through 63.2485 and referenced therein. Alternatively, you may make these requests according to § 63.8(f).

(2) Descriptions of daily or per batch demonstrations to verify that control devices subject to § 63.2450(k)(6) are operating as designed.

(3) A description of the test conditions, data, calculations, and other information used to establish operating limits according to § 63.2460(c)(3).

(4) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate uncontrolled emissions in accordance with § 63.1257(d)(2)(ii). This requirement does not apply to calculations of hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions as specified in § 63.2465(b), to determinations that the total HAP concentration is less than 50 ppmv, or if you use previous test data to establish the uncontrolled emissions.

(5) The pollution prevention demonstration plan required in § 63.2495(c)(1), if you are complying with the pollution prevention alternative.

(6) Documentation of the practices that you will implement to minimize HAP emissions from streams that contain energetics and organic peroxides, and rationale for why meeting the emission limit specified in tables 1 through 7 to this subpart would create an undue safety hazard.

(7) For fabric filters that are monitored with bag leak detectors, an operation and maintenance plan that describes proper operation and maintenance procedures, and a corrective action plan that describes corrective actions to be taken, and the timing of those actions, when the PM concentration exceeds the set point and activates the alarm.

(8) For halogen reduction device other than a scrubber, procedures for establishing monitoring parameters as required by § 63.2450(e)(3)(ii).
