
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2520 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance report.,https://cdx.epa.gov/,https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri,force majeure

(e)The compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (17) of this section. On and after August 12, 2023 or once the reporting template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA via the CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed to be CBI. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website () for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under §§ 63.9(i) and 63.10(a) of subpart A, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website or an alternate electronic file consistent with the extensible markup language (XML) schema listed on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, Sector Policies and Programs Division, CORE CBI Office, U.S. EPA Mailroom (C404-02), Attention: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing Sector Lead, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in this paragraph (e). All CBI claims must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore under CAA section 114(c) emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available. You may assert a claim of EPA system outage orfor failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement in this paragraph (e) provided you meet the requirements outlined in paragraph (i) or (j) of this section, as applicable.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report. If your report is submitted via CEDRI, the certifier's electronic signature during the submission process replaces the requirement in this paragrpah (e)(2).

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. You are no longer required to provide the date of report when the report is submitted via CEDRI.

(4) For each SSM during which excess emissions occur, the compliance report must include records that the procedures specified in your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) were followed or documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the SSMP, and include a brief description of each malfunction. On and after August 12, 2023, this paragraph (e)(4) no longer applies; however, for historical compliance purposes, a copy of the plan must be retained and available on-site for five years after August 12, 2023.

(5) The compliance report must contain the information on deviations, as defined in § 63.2550, according to paragraphs (e)(5)(i), (ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.

(i) If there are no deviations from any emission limit, operating limit or work practice standard specified in this subpart, include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, or work practice standards during the reporting period.

(ii) For each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, and work practice standard that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system (CMS) to comply with the emission limit or work practice standard in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(5)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.

(A) The total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period.

(B) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(D) of this section, information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(C) Operating logs of processes with batch vents from batch operations for the day(s) during which the deviation occurred, except operating logs are not required for deviations of the work practice standards for equipment leaks.

(D) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B) of this section no longer applies. Instead, report information for each deviation to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours of each deviation. For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(iii) For each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with an emission limit in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(5)(iii)(A) through (N) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.

(A) The start date, start time, and duration in hours that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(B) The start date, start time, and duration in hours that each CEMS was out-of-control and a description of the corrective actions taken.

(C) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(M) of this section, the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(D) The total duration in hours of all deviations for each CMS during the reporting period, the total operating time in hours of the affected source during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total operating time of the affected source during that reporting period.

(E) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(N) of this section, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(F) The total duration in hours of CMS downtime for each CMS during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total operating time of the affected source during that reporting period.

(G) An identification of each HAP that is known to be in the emission stream.

(H) A brief description of the process units.

(I) The monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s) and the pollutant or parameter monitored.

(J) The date of the latest CMS certification or audit.

(K) Operating logs of processes with batch vents from batch operations for each day(s) during which the deviation occurred.

(L) The operating day or operating block average values of monitored parameters for each day(s) during which the deviation occurred.

(M) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(C) of this section no longer applies. Instead, report the number of deviation to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the start date, start time and duration in hours of each deviation. For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(N) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), paragraph (e)(5)(iii)(E) of this section no longer applies. Instead, report a breakdown of the total duration in hours of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(iv) If you documented in your notification of compliance status report that an MCPU has Group 2 batch process vents because the non-reactive HAP is the only HAP and usage is less than 10,000 lb/yr, the total uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the batch process vents in an MCPU will be less than 1,000 lb/yr for the anticipated number of standard batches, or total uncontrolled hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from all batch process vents and continuous process vents in a process are less than 1,000 lb/yr, include the records associated with each calculation required by § 63.2525(e) that exceeds an applicable HAP usage or emissions threshold.

(6) If you use a CEMS, and there were no periods during which it was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), include a statement that there were no periods during which the CEMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.

(7) Include each new operating scenario which has been operated since the time period covered by the last compliance report and has not been submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report. For each new operating scenario, you must report the information specified in § 63.2525(b) and provide verification that the operating conditions for any associated control or treatment device have not been exceeded and that any required calculations and engineering analyses have been performed. For the purposes of this paragraph (e)(7), a revised operating scenario for an existing process is considered to be a new operating scenario.

(8) For process units added to a PUG, you must report the description and rationale specified in § 63.2525(i)(4). You must report your primary product redeterminations specified in § 63.2525(i)(5).

(9) Except as specified in §§ 63.2450(e)(4), 63.2480(f), and 63.2485(p) and (q) and paragraph (t) of this section, applicable records and information for periodic reports as specified in referenced subparts F, G, H, SS, UU, WW, and GGG of this part and subpart F of 40 CFR part 65.

(10) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(10)(ii) of this section, whenever you make a process change, or change any of the information submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report, that is not within the scope of an existing operating scenario, you must document the change in your compliance report. A process change does not include moving within a range of conditions identified in the standard batch, and a nonstandard batch does not constitute a process change.

(i) The notification must include all of the information in paragraphs (e)(10)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) A description of the process change.

(B) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original notification of compliance status report under paragraph (d) of this section.

(C) Information required by the notification of compliance status report under paragraph (d) of this section for changes involving the addition of processes or equipment at the affected source.

(ii) You must submit a report 60 days before the scheduled implementation date of any of the changes identified in paragraph (e)(10)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) Any change to the information contained in the precompliance report.

(B) A change in the status of a control device from small to large.

(C) A change from Group 2 to Group 1 for any emission point except for batch process vents that meet the conditions specified in § 63.2460(b)(6)(i).

(11) For each flare subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(5), the compliance report must include the items specified in paragraphs (e)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section in lieu of the information required in § 63.999(c)(3) of subpart SS.

(i) Records as specified in § 63.2525(m)(1) for each 15-minute block during which there was at least one minute when regulated material is routed to a flare and no pilot flame or flare flame is present. Include the start and stop time and date of each 15-minute block.

(ii) Visible emission records as specified in § 63.2525(m)(2)(iv) for each period of 2 consecutive hours during which visible emissions exceeded a total of 5 minutes.

(iii) The periods specified in § 63.2525(m)(6). Indicate the date and start and end times for each period, and the net heating value operating parameter(s) determined following the methods in § 63.670(k) through (n) of subpart CC as applicable.

(iv) For flaring events meeting the criteria in §§ 63.670(o)(3) of subpart CC and 63.2450(e)(5)(v):

(A) The start and stop time and date of the flaring event.

(B) The length of time in minutes for which emissions were visible from the flare during the event.

(C) For steam-assisted, air-assisted, and non-assisted flares, the start date, start time, and duration in minutes for periods of time that the flare tip velocity exceeds the maximum flare tip velocity determined using the methods in § 63.670(d)(2) of subpart CC and the maximum 15-minute block average flare tip velocity in ft/sec recorded during the event.

(D) Results of the root cause and corrective actions analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.

(v) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, the periods of time when the pressure monitor(s) on the main flare header show the burners operating outside the range of the manufacturer's specifications. Indicate the date and start and end times for each period.

(vi) For pressure-assisted multi-point flares, the periods of time when the staging valve position indicator monitoring system indicates a stage should not be in operation and is or when a stage should be in operation and is not. Indicate the date and start and end times for each period.

(12) For bypass lines subject to the requirements § 63.2450(e)(6), the compliance report must include the start date, start time, duration in hours, estimate of the volume of gas in standard cubic feet, the concentration of organic HAP in the gas in parts per million by volume and the resulting mass emissions of organic HAP in pounds that bypass a control device. For periods when the flow indicator is not operating, report the start date, start time, and duration in hours.

(13) For each nonregenerative adsorber and regenerative adsorber that is regenerated offsite subject to the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(7), you must report the date of each instance when breakthrough, as defined in § 63.2550(i), is detected between the first and second adsorber and the adsorber is not replaced according to § 63.2450(e)(7)(iii)(A).

(14) For any maintenance vent release exceeding the applicable limits in § 63.2450(v)(1), the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(14)(i) through (iv) of this section. For the purposes of this reporting requirement, if you comply with § 63.2450(v)(1)(iv) then you must report each venting event conducted under those provisions and include an explanation for each event as to why utilization of this alternative was required.

(i) Identification of the maintenance vent and the equipment served by the maintenance vent.

(ii) The date and time the maintenance vent was opened to the atmosphere.

(iii) The lower explosive limit in percent, vessel pressure in psig, or mass in pounds of VOC in the equipment, as applicable, at the start of atmospheric venting. If the 5 psig vessel pressure option in § 63.2450(v)(1)(ii) was used and active purging was initiated while the lower explosive limit was 10 percent or greater, also include the lower explosive limit of the vapors at the time active purging was initiated.

(iv) An estimate of the mass in pounds of organic HAP released during the entire atmospheric venting event.

(15) Compliance reports for pressure relief devices subject to the requirements § 63.2480(e) must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(15)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service, pursuant to § 63.2480(e)(1), report the instrument readings and dates for all readings of 500 ppmv or greater.

(ii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP gas or vapor service subject to § 63.2480(e)(2), report the instrument readings and dates of instrument monitoring conducted.

(iii) For pressure relief devices in organic HAP service subject to § 63.2480(e)(3), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the start date, start time, and duration in minutes of the pressure release and an estimate of the mass quantity in pounds of each organic HAP released; the results of any root cause analysis and corrective action analysis completed during the reporting period, including the corrective actions implemented during the reporting period; and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.

(16) For each heat exchange system subject to § 63.2490(d), beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the reporting requirements of § 63.104(f)(2) no longer apply; instead, the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(16)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The number of heat exchange systems at the plant site subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.2490(d) during the reporting period;

(ii) The number of heat exchange systems subject to the monitoring requirements in § 63.2490(d) at the plant site found to be leaking during the reporting period;
