
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2520 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 11 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under ยง 63.10(a), you must submit each report by the date in table 11 to this subpart and according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in ยง 63.2445 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first 6 months after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in ยง 63.2445.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than August 31 or February 28, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first reporting period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than August 31 or February 28, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.
