
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2520 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Notification of compliance status report.

(d)You must submit a notification of compliance status report according to the schedule in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, and the notification of compliance status report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2) through (5) of this section.

(1) You must submit the notification of compliance status report no later than 150 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.2445.

(2) The notification of compliance status report must include the information in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (ix) of this section.

(i) The results of any applicability determinations, emission calculations, or analyses used to identify and quantify HAP usage or HAP emissions from the affected source.

(ii) The results of emissions profiles, performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, flare compliance assessments, inspections and repairs, and calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance according to §§ 63.2455 through 63.2485. For performance tests, results must include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures. If the performance test report is submitted electronically through the EPA's CEDRI in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section, the process unit(s) tested, the pollutant(s) tested, and the date that such performance test was conducted may be submitted in the notification of compliance status report in lieu of the performance test results. The performance test results must be submitted to CEDRI by the date the notification of compliance status report is submitted.

(iii) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the operating limits established during the initial compliance demonstrations, including data and calculations to support the levels you establish.

(iv) All operating scenarios.

(v) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices.

(vi) Identification of parts of the affected source subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.2535 and the authority under which you will comply.

(vii) The information specified in § 63.1039(a)(1) through (3) for each process subject to the work practice standards for equipment leaks in Table 6 to this subpart.

(viii) Identify storage tanks for which you are complying with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.2470(e).

(ix) Records as specified in § 63.2535(l)(1) through (3) of process units used to create a PUG and calculations of the initial primary product of the PUG.
