
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.156 General permits and permits by rule.
######## What should the general permit contain?

(d)The general permit must contain the permit elements listed in ยง 49.155(a). In addition, the general permit must contain the information listed in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. The reviewing authority may specify additional general permit terms and conditions.

(1) Identification of the specific category of emissions units or sources to which the general permit applies, including any criteria that your emissions units or source must meet to be eligible for coverage under the general permit.

(2) Information required to request coverage under a general permit including, but not limited to, the following:

(i) The name and mailing address of the reviewing authority to whom you must submit your application.

(ii) The procedure to obtain any standard application forms that the reviewing authority may have developed.

(iii) The information that you must provide to the reviewing authority in your application to demonstrate that you are eligible for coverage under the general permit.

(iv) Other application requirements deemed necessary by the reviewing authority.
