
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2525 What records must I keep?
######## force majeure

(2) Records of the number of releases during each calendar year and the number of those releases for which the root cause was determined to be aevent. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past 5 calendar years.

(3) For each release to the atmosphere, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (q)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The start and end time and date of each pressure release to the atmosphere.

(ii) Records of any data, assumptions, and calculations used to estimate of the mass quantity of each organic HAP released during the event.

(iii) Records of the root cause analysis and corrective action analysis conducted as required in § 63.2480(e)(3)(iii), including an identification of the affected facility, a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same root cause(s) identified in a previous analysis and either a description of the recommended corrective action(s) or an explanation of why corrective action is not necessary under § 63.2480(e)(7)(i).

(iv) For any corrective action analysis for which implementation of corrective actions are required in § 63.2480(e)(7), a description of the corrective action(s) completed within the first 45 days following the discharge and, for action(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates.

(r) For each heat exchange system, beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the recordkeeping requirements of § 63.104(f)(1) no longer apply; instead, you must keep records in paragraphs (r)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Monitoring data required by § 63.2490(d) that indicate a leak, the date the leak was detected, or, if applicable, the basis for determining there is no leak.

(2) The dates of efforts to repair leaks.

(3) The method or procedures used to confirm repair of a leak and the date the repair was confirmed.

(4) Documentation of delay of repair as specified in paragraphs (r)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The reason(s) for delaying repair.

(ii) A schedule for completing the repair as soon as practical.

(iii) The date and concentration or mass emissions rate of the leak as first identified and the results of all subsequent monitoring events during the delay of repair.

(iv) An estimate of the potential total hydrocarbon emissions from the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for each required delay of repair monitoring interval following the procedures in paragraphs (r)(4)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) If you comply with the total strippable hydrocarbon concentration leak action level, as specified in § 63.2490(d)(1)(iv), you must calculate the mass emissions rate by complying with the requirements of § 63.2490(d)(1)(iii)(B) or by determining the mass flow rate of the cooling water at the monitoring location where the leak was detected. If the monitoring location is an individual cooling tower riser, determine the total cooling water mass flow rate to the cooling tower. Cooling water mass flow rates may be determined using direct measurement, pump curves, heat balance calculations, or other engineering methods. If you determine the mass flow rate of the cooling water, calculate the mass emissions rate by converting the stripping gas leak concentration (in ppmv as methane) to an equivalent liquid concentration, in parts per million by weight (ppmw), using equation 7-1 from "Air Stripping Method (Modified El Paso Method) for Determination of Volatile Organic Compound Emissions from Water Sources" (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) and multiply the equivalent liquid concentration by the mass flow rate of the cooling water.

(B) For delay of repair monitoring intervals prior to repair of the leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the monitoring interval by multiplying the mass emissions rate, determined in § 63.2490(d)(1)(iii)(B) or paragraph (r)(4)(iv)(A) of this section, by the duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval. The duration of the delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight on the day of the previous monitoring event or at midnight on the day the repair would have had to be completed if the repair had not been delayed, whichever is later, and ending at midnight of the day the of the current monitoring event.

(C) For delay of repair monitoring intervals ending with a repaired leak, calculate the potential total hydrocarbon emissions for the leaking heat exchange system or heat exchanger for the final delay of repair monitoring interval by multiplying the duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval by the mass emissions rate determined for the last monitoring event prior to the re-monitoring event used to verify the leak was repaired. The duration of the final delay of repair monitoring interval is the time period starting at midnight of the day of the last monitoring event prior to re-monitoring to verify the leak was repaired and ending at the time of the re-monitoring event that verified that the leak was repaired.

(s) For process vents and storage tanks in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.2493, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (s)(1) through (5) of this section in addition to those records specified in paragraph (a) of this section. Records for equipment in ethylene oxide service subject to the requirements of § 63.2493 are specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) For process vents, include all uncontrolled, undiluted ethylene oxide concentration measurements, and the calculations you used to determine the total uncontrolled ethylene oxide mass emission rate for the sum of all vent gas streams.

(2) For storage tanks, records of the concentration of ethylene oxide of the fluid stored in each storage tank.

(3) For equipment, records of the percent ethylene oxide content of the process fluid and the method used to determine it.

(4) If you vent emissions through a closed-vent system to a non-flare control device, then you must keep records of all periods during which operating values are outside of the applicable operating limits specified in § 63.2493(b)(4) through (6) when regulated material is being routed to the non-flare control device. The record must specify the operating parameter, the applicable limit, and the highest (for maximum operating limits) or lowest (for minimum operating limits) value recorded during the period.

(5) For pressure vessels subject to § 63.2493(c), records as specified in paragraphs (s)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The date of each performance test conducted according to § 63.2493(c)(2).

(ii) The instrument reading of each performance test conducted according to § 63.2493(c)(2), including the following:

(A) Date each defect was detected.

(B) Date of the next performance test that shows the instrument reading is less than 500 ppmv.

(C) Start and end dates of each period after the date in paragraph (s)(5)(ii)(A) of this section when the pressure vessel was completely empty.

(D) Estimated emissions from each defect.

(t) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.

(u) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (u)(1) through (8) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) Section 63.103(c)(2)(i) of subpart F.

(2) Section 63.103(c)(2)(ii) of subpart F.

(3) The phrase "start-up, shutdown and malfunction and" from § 63.103(c)(3) of subpart F.
