
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2525 What records must I keep?

You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (t) of this section.

(a) Except as specified in §§ 63.2450(e)(4), 63.2480(f), and 63.2485(p) and (q) and paragraph (t) of this section, each applicable record required by subpart A of this part and in referenced subparts F, G, SS, UU, WW, and GGG of this part and in referenced subpart F of 40 CFR part 65.

(b) Records of each operating scenario as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) A description of the process and the type of process equipment used.

(2) An identification of related process vents, including their associated emissions episodes if not complying with the alternative standard in § 63.2505; wastewater point of determination (POD); storage tanks; and transfer racks.

(3) The applicable control requirements of this subpart, including the level of required control, and for vents, the level of control for each vent.

(4) The control device or treatment process used, as applicable, including a description of operating and/or testing conditions for any associated control device.

(5) The process vents, wastewater POD, transfer racks, and storage tanks (including those from other processes) that are simultaneously routed to the control device or treatment process(s).

(6) The applicable monitoring requirements of this subpart and any parametric level that assures compliance for all emissions routed to the control device or treatment process.

(7) Calculations and engineering analyses required to demonstrate compliance.

(8) For reporting purposes, a change to any of these elements not previously reported, except for paragraph (b)(5) of this section, constitutes a new operating scenario.

(c) A schedule or log of operating scenarios for processes with batch vents from batch operations updated each time a different operating scenario is put into effect.

(d) The information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for Group 1 batch process vents in compliance with a percent reduction emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart if some of the vents are controlled to less the percent reduction requirement.

(1) Records of whether each batch operated was considered a standard batch.

(2) The estimated uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each batch that is considered to be a nonstandard batch.

(e) The information specified in paragraph (e)(2), (3), or (4) of this section, as applicable, for each process with Group 2 batch process vents or uncontrolled hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions from the sum of all batch and continuous process vents less than 1,000 lb/yr. No records are required for situations described in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(1) No records are required if you documented in your notification of compliance status report that the MCPU meets any of the situations described in paragraph (e)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) The MCPU does not process, use, or generate HAP.

(ii) You control the Group 2 batch process vents using a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.987 or § 63.2450(e)(5), as applicable.

(iii) You control the Group 2 batch process vents using a control device for which your determination of worst case for initial compliance includes the contribution of all Group 2 batch process vents.

(2) If you documented in your notification of compliance status report that an MCPU has Group 2 batch process vents because the non-reactive organic HAP is the only HAP and usage is less than 10,000 lb/yr, as specified in § 63.2460(b)(7), you must keep records of the amount of HAP material used, and calculate the daily rolling annual sum of the amount used no less frequently than monthly. If a record indicates usage exceeds 10,000 lb/yr, you must estimate emissions for the preceding 12 months based on the number of batches operated and the estimated emissions for a standard batch, and you must begin recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. After 1 year, you may revert to recording only usage if the usage during the year is less than 10,000 lb.

(3) If you documented in your notification of compliance status report that total uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from the batch process vents in an MCPU will be less than 1,000 lb/yr for the anticipated number of standard batches, then you must keep records of the number of batches operated and calculate a daily rolling annual sum of batches operated no less frequently than monthly. If the number of batches operated results in organic HAP emissions that exceed 1,000 lb/yr, you must estimate emissions for the preceding 12 months based on the number of batches operated and the estimated emissions for a standard batch, and you must begin recordkeeping as specified in paragraph (e)(4) of this section. After 1 year, you may revert to recording only the number of batches if the number of batches operated during the year results in less than 1,000 lb of organic HAP emissions.

(4) If you meet none of the conditions specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section, you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) A record of the day each batch was completed and/or the operating hours per day for continuous operations with hydrogen halide and halogen emissions.

(ii) A record of whether each batch operated was considered a standard batch.

(iii) The estimated uncontrolled and controlled emissions for each batch that is considered to be a nonstandard batch.

(iv) Records of the daily 365-day rolling summations of emissions, or alternative records that correlate to the emissions (e.g., number of batches), calculated no less frequently than monthly.

(f) A record of each time a safety device is opened to avoid unsafe conditions in accordance with § 63.2450(p).

(g) Records of the results of each CPMS calibration check and the maintenance performed, as specified in § 63.2450(k)(1).

(h) Except as specified in paragraph (l) of this section, for each CEMS, you must keep records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(i) For each PUG, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Descriptions of the MCPU and other process units in the initial PUG required by § 63.2535(l)(1)(v).
