
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.2535 What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?
######## Procedures to create process unit groups.

(1)Develop and document changes in a PUG in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Initially, identify an MCPU that is created from nondedicated equipment that will operate on or after November 10, 2003 and identify all processing equipment that is part of this MCPU, based on descriptions in operating scenarios.

(ii) Add to the group any other nondedicated MCPU and other nondedicated process units expected to be operated in the 5 years after the date specified in paragraph (l)(1)(i) of this section, provided they satisfy the criteria specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section. Also identify all of the processing equipment used for each process unit based on information from operating scenarios and other applicable documentation.

(A) Each process unit that is added to a group must have some processing equipment that is also part of one or more process units in the group.

(B) No process unit may be part of more than one PUG.

(C) The processing equipment used to satisfy the requirement of paragraph (l)(1)(ii)(A) of this section may not be a storage tank or control device.

(iii) The initial PUG consists of all of the processing equipment for the process units identified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, you may use a PUG that was developed in accordance with ยง 63.1360(h) as your initial PUG.

(iv) Add process units developed in the future in accordance with the conditions specified in paragraphs (l)(1)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(v) Maintain records that describe the process units in the initial PUG, the procedure used to create the PUG, and subsequent changes to each PUG as specified in ยง 63.2525(i). Submit the records in reports as specified in ยง 63.2520(d)(2)(ix) and (e)(8).
