
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.2535 What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?
######## Overlap of this subpart with other regulations for flares.

(m)(1) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares that control ethylene oxide emissions from affected sources in ethylene oxide service as defined in § 63.2550 or are used to control emissions from MCPUs that produce olefins and polyolefins, subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 60.18 or 63.11, and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1, 2, 4 or 5 to this subpart are required to comply only with the provisions specified in § 63.2450(e)(5). At any time before the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares that are subject to the provisions of 40 CFR 60.18 or 63.11 and elect to comply with the requirements in § 63.2450(e)(5) are required to comply only with the provisions specified in this subpart. For purposes of compliance with this paragraph (m), "MCPUs that produces olefins or polyolefins" includes only those MCPUs that manufacture ethylene, propylene, polyethylene, and/or polypropylene as a product. By-products and impurities as defined in § 63.101, as well as wastes and trace contaminants, are not considered products.

(2) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares subject to § 63.987 and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1, 2, 4 or 5 to this subpart are only required to comply with § 63.2450(e)(5).

(3) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), flares subject to the requirements in subpart CC of this part and used as a control device for an emission point subject to the emission limits and work practice standards in Tables 1, 2, 4 or 5 to this subpart are only required to comply with the flare requirements in subpart CC of this part. This paragraph (m)(3) does not apply to multi-point pressure assisted flares.
