
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.2535 What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?
######## Compliance requirements.

(3)(i) If the primary product of the PUG is determined according to paragraph (l)(2) of this section to be material described in ยง 63.2435(b)(1), then you must comply with this subpart for each MCPU in the PUG. You may also elect to comply with this subpart for all other process units in the PUG, which constitutes compliance with other part 63 rules.

(ii) If the primary product of the PUG is determined according to paragraph (l)(2) of this section to be material not described in ยง 63.2435(b)(1), then you must comply with paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section, as applicable.

(A) If the primary product is subject to subpart GGG of this part 63, then comply with the requirements of subpart GGG for each MCPU in the PUG.

(B) If the primary product is subject to subpart MMM of this part 63, then comply with the requirements of subpart MMM for each MCPU in the PUG.

(C) If the primary product is subject to any subpart in this part 63 other than subpart GGG or subpart MMM, then comply with the requirements of this subpart for each MCPU in the PUG.

(iii) The requirements for new and reconstructed sources in the alternative subpart apply to all MCPU in the PUG if and only if the affected source under the alternative subpart meets the requirements for construction or reconstruction.
