
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.2535 What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?
######## Compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, and 40 CFR part 61, subpart V.

(k)Except as specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section, after the compliance date specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source with equipment that is also subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, you may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment. After the compliance date specified in § 63.2445, if you have an affected source with equipment to which this subpart does not apply, but which is subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, or 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, you may elect to apply this subpart to all such equipment. If you elect either of the methods of compliance in this paragraph (k), you must consider all total organic compounds, minus methane and ethane, in such equipment for purposes of compliance with this subpart, as if they were organic HAP. Compliance with the provisions of this subpart, in the manner described in this paragraph (k), will constitute compliance with 40 CFR part 60, subpart VV or VVa, and 40 CFR part 61, subpart V, as applicable.

(1) The provision in § 63.2480(b)(4) does not apply to connectors in gas/vapor and light liquid service that are subject to monitoring under 40 CFR 60.482-11a if complying with the compliance option in this paragraph (k).

(2) Beginning no later than the compliance dates specified in § 63.2445(g), equipment that must be controlled according to this subpart and subpart VVa of 40 CFR part 60 is required only to comply with the equipment leak requirements of this subpart, except you must also comply with the calibration drift assessment requirements specified at 40 CFR 60.485a(b)(2) if they are required to do so in subpart VVa of 40 CFR part 60. When complying with the calibration drift assessment requirements at 40 CFR 60.485a(b)(2), the requirement at 40 CFR 60.486a(e)(8)(v) to record the instrument reading for each scale used applies.
