
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.2550 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## e.g.,

(4) For the purposes of § 63.2455, all references to the characteristics of a process vent (flowrate, total HAP concentration, or TRE index value) mean the characteristics of the gas stream.

(5) The reference to "total organic HAP" in § 63.107(d) means "total HAP" for the purposes of this subpart FFFF.

(6) The references to an "air oxidation reactor, distillation unit, or reactor" in § 63.107 mean any continuous operation for the purposes of this subpart.

(7) A separate determination is required for the emissions from each MCPU, even if emission streams from two or more MCPU are combined prior to discharge to the atmosphere or to a control device.

(8) On and after August 12, 2023, § 63.107(h)(3) applies unless the fuel gas system supplies a flare of which 50 percent or more of the fuel gas burned in the flare is derived from an MCPU that has processes and/or equipment in ethylene oxide service, or produces olefins or polyolefins.

(9) On and after August 12, 2023, § 63.107(h)(9) no longer applies.

(10) On and after August 12, 2023, § 63.107(i) no longer applies. Instead, a process vent is the point of discharge to the atmosphere (or the point of entry into a control device, if any) of a gas stream if the gas stream meets the criteria specified in this paragraph. The gas stream would meet the characteristics specified in § 63.107(b) through (g) of subpart F, but, for purposes of avoiding applicability, has been deliberately interrupted, temporarily liquefied, routed through any item of equipment for no process purpose, or disposed of in a flare that does not meet the criteria in § 63.11(b) of subpart A or § 63.2450(e)(5) as applicable, or an incinerator that does not reduce emissions of organic HAP by 98 percent or to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent.

(11) Section 63.107(d) does not apply to continuous process vents in ethylene oxide service.
