
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Organic Chemical Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.2550 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## In ethylene oxide service

means the following:

(1) For equipment leaks, any equipment that contains or contacts a fluid (liquid or gas) that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, the equipment is considered to be "in ethylene oxide service" unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in ยง 63.2492 to demonstrate that the equipment does not meet the definition of being "in ethylene oxide service". Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in equipment, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.

(2) For process vents, each batch and continuous process vent in a process that, when uncontrolled, contains a concentration of greater than or equal to 1 ppmv undiluted ethylene oxide, and when combined, the sum of all these process vents would emit uncontrolled ethylene oxide emissions greater than or equal to 5 lb/yr (2.27 kg/yr). If information exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a batch or continuous process vent, then the batch or continuous process vent is considered to be "in ethylene oxide service" unless an analysis is performed as specified in ยง 63.2492 to demonstrate that the batch or continuous process vent does not meet the definition of being "in ethylene oxide service". Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a batch or continuous process vent, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.

(3) For storage tanks, storage tanks of any capacity and vapor pressure storing a liquid that is at least 0.1 percent by weight of ethylene oxide. If knowledge exists that suggests ethylene oxide could be present in a storage tank, then the storage tank is considered to be "in ethylene oxide service" unless sampling and analysis is performed as specified in ยง 63.2492 to demonstrate that the storage tank does not meet the definition of being "in ethylene oxide service". The exemptions for "vessels storing organic liquids that contain HAP only as impurities" and "pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere" listed in the definition of "storage tank" in this section do not apply for storage tanks that may be in ethylene oxide service. Examples of information that could suggest ethylene oxide could be present in a storage tank, include calculations based on safety data sheets, material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current operating conditions.
