
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.157 Public participation requirements.
######## How will the public comment and will there be a public hearing?

(c)(1) Any person may submit written comments on the draft permit and may request a public hearing. These comments must raise any reasonably ascertainable issue with supporting arguments by the close of the public comment period (including any public hearing). The reviewing authority must consider all comments in making the final decision. The reviewing authority must keep a record of the commenters and of the issues raised during the public participation process and such records must be available to the public.

(2) The reviewing authority must extend the public comment period under paragraph (b) of this section to the close of any public hearing under this section. The hearing officer may also extend the comment period by so stating at the hearing.

(3) A request for a public hearing must be in writing and must state the nature of the issues proposed to be raised at the hearing.

(4) The reviewing authority must hold a hearing whenever there is, on the basis of requests, a significant degree of public interest in a draft permit. The reviewing authority may also hold a public hearing at its discretion, whenever, for instance, such a hearing might clarify one or more issues involved in the permit decision. The reviewing authority must provide notice of any public hearing at least 30 days prior to the date of the hearing. Public notice of the hearing may be concurrent with that of the draft permit and the two notices may be combined. Reasonable limits may be set upon the time allowed for oral statements at the hearing.

(5) The reviewing authority must make a tape recording or written transcript of any hearing available to the public.
