
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.2833 Is my source categorized as existing or new?
######## Significant modification of a source.

(c)A significant modification to an affected source is a term specific to this subpart and is defined in ยง 63.2872.

(1) In general, a significant modification to your source consists of adding new equipment or the modification of existing equipment within the affected source that significantly affects solvent losses from the affected source. Examples include adding or replacing extractors, desolventizer-toasters (conventional and specialty), and meal dryer-coolers. All other significant modifications must meet the criteria listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) The fixed capital cost of the modification represents a significant percentage of the fixed capital cost of building a comparable new vegetable oil production process.

(ii) It does not constitute reconstruction as defined in ยง 63.2.

(2) A significant modification has no effect on the categorization of your source as existing and new. An existing source remains categorized as an existing source and subject to the existing source requirements of this subpart. A new source remains categorized as a new source and subject to the new source requirements of this subpart.
