
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.2832 Am I subject to this subpart?
######## vegetable oil production process

(i) Ais defined in § 63.2872. In general, it is the collection of continuous process equipment and activities that produce crude vegetable oil and meal products by removing oil from oilseeds listed in Table 1 to § 63.2840 through direct contact with an organic solvent, such as a hexane isomer blend.

(ii) A major source of HAP emissions is a plant site that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 10 tons (9.07 megagrams) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 25 tons (22.68 megagrams) or more per year.

(2) Your vegetable oil production process processes any combination of eight types of oilseeds listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section:

(i) Corn germ;

(ii) Cottonseed;

(iii) Flax;

(iv) Peanut;

(v) Rapeseed (for example, canola);

(vi) Safflower;

(vii) Soybean; and

(viii) Sunflower.

(b) You are not subject to this subpart if your vegetable oil production process meets any of the criteria listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) It uses only mechanical extraction techniques that use no organic solvent to remove oil from a listed oilseed.

(2) It uses only batch solvent extraction and batch desolventizing equipment.

(3) It processes only agricultural products that are not listed oilseeds as defined in § 63.2872.

(4) It functions only as a research and development facility and is not a major source.

(c) As listed in § 63.1(c)(5) of the General Provisions, if your HAP emissions increase such that you become a major source, then you are subject to all of the requirements of this subpart.
