
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Standards
####### § 63.2840 What emission requirements must I meet?
######## Low-HAP solvent option.

(e)For all vegetable oil production processes subject to this subpart, you must exclusively use solvent where the volume fraction of each HAP comprises 1 percent or less by volume of the solvent (low-HAP solvent) in each delivery, and you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section. Your vegetable oil production process is not subject to the requirements in §§ 63.2850 through 63.2870 unless specifically referenced in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You shall determine the HAP content of your solvent in accordance with the specifications in § 63.2854(b)(1).

(2) You shall maintain documentation of the HAP content determination for each delivery of the solvent at the facility at all times.

(3) You must submit an initial notification for existing sources in accordance with § 63.2860(a).

(4) You must submit an initial notification for new and reconstructed sources in accordance with § 63.2860(b).

(5) You must submit an annual compliance certification in accordance with § 63.2861(a). The certification should only include the information required under § 63.2861(a)(1) and (2), and a certification indicating whether the source complied with all of the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section.

(f) You may change compliance options for your source if you submit a notice to the Administrator at least 60 days prior to changing compliance options. If your source changes from the low-HAP solvent option to the compliance ratio determination option, you must determine the compliance ratio for the most recent 12 operating months beginning with the first month after changing compliance options.

(g) On or after September 15, 2020, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, at all times in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(h) On and after September 15, 2020, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section if you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).

(1) You must operate the mineral oil absorption system at all times during the initial startup period unless doing so is not possible due to safety considerations;

(2) You must operate the solvent condensers at all times during the initial startup period unless doing so is not possible due to safety considerations; and

(3) You must follow site-specific operating limits, established according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, for temperature and pressure for the desolventizing and oil distillation units associated with solvent recovery at all times, unless doing so is not possible due to safety considerations.

(i) Your site-specific operating limits may be based on equipment design, manufacturer's recommendations, or other site-specific operating values established for normal operating periods.

(ii) The operating limits may be in the form of a minimum, maximum, or operating range.
