
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2850 How do I comply with the hazardous air pollutant emission standards?
######## General requirements.

(a)The requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section apply to all affected sources:

(1) Submit the necessary notifications in accordance with § 63.2860, which include:

(i) Initial notifications for existing sources.

(ii) Initial notifications for new and reconstructed sources.

(iii) Initial notifications for significant modifications to existing or new sources.

(iv) Notification of compliance status.

(2) Develop and implement a plan for demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.2851.

(3) Develop a written startup, shutdown and malfunction (SSM) plan in accordance with the provisions in § 63.2852. On and after September 15, 2020, an SSM plan is not required.

(4) Maintain all the necessary records you have used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart in accordance with § 63.2862.

(5) Submit the reports in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable:

(i) Annual compliance certifications in accordance with § 63.2861(a).

(ii) Periodic SSM reports in accordance with § 63.2861(c).

(iii) Immediate SSM reports in accordance with § 63.2861(d).

(iv) Initial startup period reports in accordance with § 63.2861(e).

(6) Submit all notifications and reports and maintain all records required by the General Provisions for performance testing if you add a control device that destroys solvent.
