
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Standards
####### § 63.2840 What emission requirements must I meet?

For each facility meeting the applicability criteria in § 63.2832, you must comply with either the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) through (d), or the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section. You must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (g) of this section. You must comply with the work practice standard provided in paragraph (h) of this section, if you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).

(a)(1) The emission requirements limit the number of gallons of HAP lost per ton of listed oilseeds processed. For each operating month, as defined in § 63.2872, you must calculate a compliance ratio which compares your actual HAP loss to your allowable HAP loss for the previous 12 operating months as shown in Equation 1 of this section. Equation 1 of this section follows:

(2) Equation 1 of this section can also be expressed as a function of total solvent loss as shown in Equation 2 of this section. Equation 2 of this section follows:

(b) When your source has processed listed oilseed for 12 operating months, calculate the compliance ratio by the end of each calendar month following an operating month, as defined in § 63.2872, using Equation 2 of this section. When calculating your compliance ratio, consider the conditions and exclusions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) The 12-month compliance ratio may include operating months occurring prior to a source shutdown and operating months that follow after the source resumes operation.

(3) If your source shuts down and processes no listed oilseed for an entire calendar or accounting month, then you must categorize the month as a nonoperating month, as defined in § 63.2872. Exclude any nonoperating months from the compliance ratio determination.

(4) If your source is subject to an initial startup period as defined in § 63.2872, you may exclude from the compliance ratio determination any solvent and oilseed information recorded for the initial startup period, provided you meet the work practice standard in § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).

(5) Before September 15, 2020, if your source is subject to a malfunction period as defined in § 63.2872, exclude from the compliance ratio determination any solvent and oilseed information recorded for the malfunction period. The provisions of this paragraph (e) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.

(6) For sources processing cottonseed or specialty soybean, the solvent loss factor you use to determine the compliance ratio may change each operating month depending on the tons of oilseed processed during all normal operating periods in a 12 operating month period.

(c) If the compliance ratio is less than or equal to 1.00, your source was in compliance with the HAP emission requirements for the previous operating month.

(d) To determine the compliance ratio in Equation 2 of this section, you must select the appropriate oilseed solvent loss factor from Table 1 of this section. First, determine whether your source is new or existing using Table 1 of § 63.2833. Then, under the appropriate existing or new source column, select the oilseed solvent loss factor that corresponds to each type oilseed or process operation for each operating month.
