
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.158 Synthetic minor source permits.
######## What information must my synthetic minor source permit application contain?

(a)

(1) Your application must include the following information:

(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.

(ii) For each regulated NSR pollutant and/or HAP and for all emissions units to be covered by an emissions limitation, the following information:

(A) The proposed emission limitation and a description of its effect on actual emissions or the potential to emit. Proposed emission limitations must have a reasonably short averaging period, taking into consideration the operation of the source and the methods to be used for demonstrating compliance.

(B) Proposed testing, monitoring, recordkeeping and reporting requirements to be used to demonstrate and assure compliance with the proposed limitation.

(C) A description of the production processes.

(D) Identification of the emissions units.

(E) Type and quantity of fuels and/or raw materials used.

(F) Description and estimated efficiency of air pollution control equipment under present or anticipated operating conditions.

(G) Estimates of the current actual emissions and current potential to emit, including all calculations for the estimates.

(H) Estimates of the allowable emissions and/or potential to emit that would result from compliance with the proposed limitation, including all calculations for the estimates.

(iii) Any other information specifically requested by the reviewing authority.

(2) Estimates of actual emissions must be based upon actual test data or in the absence of such data, upon procedures acceptable to the reviewing authority. Any emission estimates submitted to the reviewing authority must be verifiable using currently accepted engineering criteria. The following procedures are generally acceptable for estimating emissions from air pollution sources:

(i) Source-specific emission tests;

(ii) Mass balance calculations;

(iii) Published, verifiable emission factors that are applicable to the source;

(iv) Other engineering calculations or

(v) Other procedures to estimate emissions specifically approved by the reviewing authority.
