
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2855 How do I determine the quantity of oilseed processed?
######## Oilseed inventory adjustments.

(5)In some situations, determining the quantity of oilseed processed directly from the measured oilseed inventory and quantity of oilseed received is not an accurate estimate of the tons of oilseed processed for use in determining compliance ratios. For example, spoiled and molded oilseed removed from storage but not processed by your source will result in an overestimate of the quantity of oilseed processed. In such cases, you must adjust the oilseed inventory and provide a justification for the adjustment. Situations that may require oilseed inventory adjustments include, but are not limited to, the situations listed in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section:

(i) Oilseed that molds or otherwise become unsuitable for processing.

(ii) Oilseed you sell before it enters the processing operation.

(iii) Oilseed destroyed by an event such as a process malfunction, fire, or natural disaster.

(iv) Oilseed processed through operations prior to solvent extraction such as screening, dehulling, cracking, drying, and conditioning; but that are not routed to the solvent extractor for further processing.

(v) Periodic physical measurements of inventory. For example, some sources periodically empty oilseed storage silos to physically measure the current oilseed inventory. This periodic measurement procedure typically results in a small inventory correction. The correction factor, usually less than 1 percent, may be used to make an adjustment to the source's oilseed inventory that was estimated previously with indirect measurement techniques. To make this adjustment, your plan for demonstrating compliance must provide for such an adjustment.

(b) Use Equation 1 of this section to determine the quantity of each oilseed type processed at your affected source during normal operating periods recorded within a calendar month. Equation 1 of this section follows:

(c) The quantity of each oilseed processed is the total tons of each type of listed oilseed processed during normal operating periods in the previous 12 operating months. You determine the tons of each oilseed processed by summing the monthly quantity of each oilseed processed for the previous 12 operating months. You must record the 12 operating months quantity of each type of oilseed processed by the end of each calendar month following an operating month. Use the 12 operating months quantity of each type of oilseed processed to determine the compliance ratio as described in § 63.2840. The quantity of oilseed processed does not include oilseed processed during the operating status periods in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) Nonoperating periods as described in § 63.2853 (a)(2)(ii).

(2) Initial startup periods as described in § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).

(3) Before September 15, 2020, malfunction periods as described in § 63.2850(e)(2).

(4) Exempt operation periods as described in § 63.2853 (a)(2)(v).

(5) If any one of these four operating status periods span an entire calendar month, then the calendar month is treated as a nonoperating month and there is no compliance ratio determination.
