
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2853 How do I determine the actual solvent loss?
######## Solvent working capacity

(ii) Changes in solvent working capacity. In records you keep on-site, document any process modifications resulting in changes to the solvent working capacity in your vegetable oil production process.is defined in § 63.2872. In general, solvent working capacity is the volume of solvent normally retained in solvent recovery equipment such as the extractor, desolventizer-toaster, solvent storage, working tanks, mineral oil absorber, condensers, and oil/solvent distillation system. If the change occurs during a normal operating period, you must determine the difference in working solvent volume and make a one-time documented adjustment to the solvent inventory.

(b) Use Equation 1 of this section to determine the actual solvent loss occurring from your affected source for all normal operating periods recorded within a calendar month. Equation 1 of this section follows:

(c) The actual solvent loss is the total solvent losses during normal operating periods for the previous 12 operating months. You determine your actual solvent loss by summing the monthly actual solvent losses for the previous 12 operating months. You must record the actual solvent loss by the end of each calendar month following an operating month. Use the actual solvent loss in Equation 2 of § 63.2840 to determine the compliance ratio. Actual solvent loss does not include losses that occur during operating status periods listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. If any one of these four operating status periods span an entire month, then the month is treated as nonoperating and there is no compliance ratio determination.

(1) Nonoperating periods as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Initial startup periods as described in § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).

(3) Before September 15, 2020, malfunction periods as described in § 63.2850(e)(2).

(4) Exempt operation periods as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.
