
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.158 Synthetic minor source permits.
######## What are the procedures for obtaining a synthetic minor source permit?

(b)

(1) If you wish to obtain a synthetic minor source permit under this program, you must submit a permit application to the reviewing authority. The application must contain the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) Within 60 days after receipt of an application, the reviewing authority will determine if it contains the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) If the reviewing authority determines that the application is not complete, it will request additional information from you as necessary to process the application. If the reviewing authority determines that the application is complete, it will notify you in writing. The reviewing authority's completeness determination or request for additional information should be postmarked within 60 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority. If you do not receive a request for additional information or a notice of complete application postmarked within 60 days of receipt of the permit application by the reviewing authority, your application will be deemed complete

(4) The reviewing authority will prepare a draft synthetic minor source permit that describes the proposed limitation and its effect on the potential to emit of the source.

(5) The reviewing authority must provide an opportunity for public participation and public comment on the draft synthetic minor source permit as set out in ยง 49.157.

(6) After the close of the public comment period, the reviewing authority will review all comments received and prepare a final synthetic minor source permit.

(7) The final synthetic minor source permit will be granted or denied no later than 1 year after the date the application is deemed complete and all additional information necessary to make an informed decision has been provided.

(8) The final synthetic minor source permit will be issued and will be subject to administrative and judicial review as set out in ยง 49.159.
