
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.2854 How do I determine the weighted average volume fraction of HAP in the actual solvent loss?

(a) This section describes the information and procedures you must use to determine the weighted average volume fraction of HAP in extraction solvent received for use in your vegetable oil production process. By the end of each calendar month following an operating month, determine the weighted average volume fraction of HAP in extraction solvent received since the end of the previous operating month. If you have determined the monthly weighted average volume fraction of HAP in solvent received for 12 or more operating months, then also determine an overall weighted average volume fraction of HAP in solvent received for the previous 12 operating months. Use the volume fraction of HAP determined as a 12 operating months weighted average in Equation 2 of ยง 63.2840 to determine the compliance ratio.

(b) To determine the volume fraction of HAP in the extraction solvent determined as a 12 operating months weighted average, you must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Record the volume fraction of each HAP comprising more than 1 percent by volume of the solvent in each delivery of solvent, including solvent recovered from off-site oil. To determine the HAP content of the material in each delivery of solvent, the reference method is EPA Method 311 of appendix A of this part. You may use EPA Method 311, an approved alternative method, or any other reasonable means for determining the HAP content. Other reasonable means of determining HAP content include, but are not limited to, a material safety data sheet or a manufacturer's certificate of analysis. A certificate of analysis is a legal and binding document provided by a solvent manufacturer. The purpose of a certificate of analysis is to list the test methods and analytical results that determine chemical properties of the solvent and the volume percentage of all HAP components present in the solvent at quantities greater than 1 percent by volume. You are not required to test the materials that you use, but the Administrator may require a test using EPA Method 311 (or an approved alternative method) to confirm the reported HAP content. However, if the results of an analysis by EPA Method 311 are different from the HAP content determined by another means, the EPA Method 311 results will govern compliance determinations.

(2) Determine the weighted average volume fraction of HAP in the extraction solvent each operating month. The weighted average volume fraction of HAP for an operating month includes all solvent received since the end of the last operating month, regardless of the operating status at the time of the delivery. Determine the monthly weighted average volume fraction of HAP by summing the products of the HAP volume fraction of each delivery and the volume of each delivery and dividing the sum by the total volume of all deliveries as expressed in Equation 1 of this section. Record the result by the end of each calendar month following an operating month. Equation 1 of this section follows:

(3) Determine the volume fraction of HAP in your extraction solvent as a 12 operating months weighted average. When your source has processed oilseed for 12 operating months, sum the products of the monthly weighted average HAP volume fraction and corresponding volume of solvent received, and divide the sum by the total volume of solvent received for the 12 operating months, as expressed by Equation 2 of this section. Record the result by the end of each calendar month following an operating month and use it in Equation 2 of ยง 63.2840 to determine the compliance ratio. Equation 2 of this section follows:
