
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2860 What notifications must I submit and when?
######## Notification of compliance status.

(d)As an existing, new, or reconstructed source, you must submit a notification of compliance status report to the responsible agency no later than 60 days after determining your initial 12 operating months compliance ratio. If you are an existing source, you generally must submit this notification no later than 50 calendar months after the effective date of these NESHAP (36 calendar months for compliance, 12 operating months to record data, and 2 calendar months to complete the report). If you are a new or reconstructed source, the notification of compliance status is generally due no later than 20 calendar months after initial startup (6 calendar months for the initial startup period, 12 operating months to record data, and 2 calendar months to complete the report). The notification of compliance status must contain the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process.

(3) Each listed oilseed type processed during the previous 12 operating months.

(4) Each HAP identified under ยง 63.2854(a) as being present in concentrations greater than 1 percent by volume in each delivery of solvent received during the 12 operating months period used for the initial compliance determination.

(5) A statement designating the source as a major source of HAP or a demonstration that the source qualifies as an area source. An area source is a source that is not a major source and is not collocated within a plant site with other sources that are individually or collectively a major source.

(6) A compliance certification indicating whether the source complied with all of the requirements of this subpart throughout the 12 operating months used for the initial source compliance determination. This certification must include a certification of the items in paragraphs (d)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) The plan for demonstrating compliance (as described in ยง 63.2851) and SSM plan (as described in ยง 63.2852) are complete and available on-site for inspection.

(ii) You are following the procedures described in the plan for demonstrating compliance.

(iii) The compliance ratio is less than or equal to 1.00.
