
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2861 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction report.

(c)Before September 15, 2020, if you choose to operate your source under an initial startup period subject to ยง 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2) or a malfunction period subject to ยง 63.2850(e)(2), you must submit a periodic SSM report by the end of the calendar month following each month in which the initial startup period or malfunction period occurred. The periodic SSM report must include the items in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (c) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.

(1) The name, title, and signature of a source's responsible official who is certifying that the report accurately states that all actions taken during the initial startup or malfunction period were consistent with the SSM plan.

(2) A description of events occurring during the time period, the date and duration of the events, and reason the time interval qualifies as an initial startup period or malfunction period.

(3) An estimate of the solvent loss during the initial startup or malfunction period with supporting documentation.
