
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2860 What notifications must I submit and when?
######## Significant modification notifications.

(c)Any existing or new source that plans to undergo a significant modification as defined in ยง 63.2872 must submit two reports as described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) Initial notification. You must submit an initial notification to the agency responsible for these NESHAP 30 days prior to initial startup of the significantly modified source. The initial notification must demonstrate that the proposed changes qualify as a significant modification. The initial notification must include the items in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) The expected startup date of the modified source.

(ii) A description of the significant modification including a list of the equipment that will be replaced or modified. If the significant modification involves changes other than adding or replacing extractors, desolventizer-toasters (conventional and specialty), and meal dryer-coolers, then you must also include the fixed capital cost of the new components, expressed as a percentage of the fixed capital cost to build a comparable new vegetable oil production process; supporting documentation for the cost estimate; and documentation that the proposed changes will significantly affect solvent losses.

(2) Notification of actual startup. You must submit a notification of actual startup date within 15 days after initial startup of the modified source. The notification must include the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) The initial startup date of the modified source.

(ii) An indication whether you have elected to operate under an initial startup period subject to ยง 63.2850(d)(2).

(iii) The anticipated duration of any initial startup period.

(iv) A justification for the anticipated duration of any initial startup period.
