
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2861 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Deviation notification report.

(b)Submit a deviation report for each compliance determination you make in which the compliance ratio exceeds 1.00 as determined under ยง 63.2840(c) or if you deviate from the work practice standard for an initial startup period subject to ยง 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2). Submit the deviation report by the end of the month following the calendar month in which you determined the deviation. The deviation notification report must include the items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section if you exceed the compliance ratio, and must include the items in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (5) through (8) of this section if you deviate from the work practice standard:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process.

(3) Each listed oilseed type processed during the 12 operating months period for which you determined the deviation.

(4) The compliance ratio comprising the deviation. You may reduce the frequency of submittal of the deviation notification report if the agency responsible for these NESHAP does not object as provided in ยง 63.10(e)(3)(iii).
