
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2861 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Annual compliance certifications.

(a)The first annual compliance certification is due 12 calendar months after you submit the notification of compliance status. Each subsequent annual compliance certification is due 12 calendar months after the previous annual compliance certification. The annual compliance certification provides the compliance status for each operating month during the 12 calendar months period ending 60 days prior to the date on which the report is due. Include the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section in the annual certification:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process.

(3) Each listed oilseed type processed during the 12 calendar months period covered by the report.

(4) Each HAP identified under ยง 63.2854(a) as being present in concentrations greater than 1 percent by volume in each delivery of solvent received during the 12 calendar months period covered by the report.

(5) A statement designating the source as a major source of HAP or a demonstration that the source qualifies as an area source. An area source is a source that is not a major source and is not collocated within a plant site with other sources that are individually or collectively a major source.

(6) A compliance certification to indicate whether the source was in compliance for each compliance determination made during the 12 calendar months period covered by the report. For each such compliance determination, you must include a certification of the items in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (ii) of this section:

(i) You are following the procedures described in the plan for demonstrating compliance.

(ii) The compliance ratio is less than or equal to 1.00.
