
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2860 What notifications must I submit and when?
######## Initial notification for existing sources.

(a)For an existing source, submit an initial notification to the agency responsible for these NESHAP no later than 120 days after the effective date of this subpart, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. In the notification, include the items in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the vegetable oil production process.

(3) Identification of the relevant standard, such as the vegetable oil production NESHAP, and compliance date.

(4) A brief description of the source including the types of listed oilseeds processed, nominal operating capacity, and type of desolventizer(s) used.

(5) A statement designating the source as a major source of HAP or a demonstration that the source meets the definition of an area source. An area source is a source that is not a major source and is not collocated within a plant site with other sources that are individually or collectively a major source.
