
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.2861 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Immediate SSM reports.

(d)Before September 15, 2020, if you handle a SSM during an initial startup period subject to ยง 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2) or a malfunction period subject to ยง 63.2850(e)(2) differently from procedures in the SSM plan and the relevant emission requirements in ยง 63.2840 are exceeded, then you must submit an immediate SSM report. Immediate SSM reports consist of a telephone call or facsimile transmission to the responsible agency within 2 working days after starting actions inconsistent with the SSM plan, followed by a letter within 7 working days after the end of the event. The letter must include the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. The provisions of this paragraph (d) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.

(1) The name, title, and signature of a source's responsible official who is certifying the accuracy of the report, an explanation of the event, and the reasons for not following the SSM plan.

(2) A description and date of the SSM event, its duration, and reason it qualifies as a SSM.

(3) An estimate of the solvent loss for the duration of the SSM event with supporting documentation.
