
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Solvent Extraction for Vegetable Oil Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2862 What records must I keep?

(a) You must satisfy the recordkeeping requirements of this section by the compliance date for your source specified in Table 1 of § 63.2834.

(b) Before September 15, 2020, prepare a plan for demonstrating compliance (as described in § 63.2851) and a SSM plan (as described in § 63.2852). In these two plans, describe the procedures you will follow in obtaining and recording data, and determining compliance under normal operations or a SSM subject to the § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2) initial startup period or the § 63.2850(e)(2) malfunction period. Complete both plans before the compliance date for your source and keep them on-site and readily available as long as the source is operational. On and after September 15, 2020, the requirement to prepare a SSM plan no longer applies, and the plan for demonstrating compliance must only describe the procedures you develop according to the requirements of § 63.2851.

(c) If your source processes any listed oilseed, record the items in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) For the solvent inventory, record the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section in accordance with your plan for demonstrating compliance:

(i) Dates that define each operating status period during a calendar month.

(ii) The operating status of your source such as normal operation, nonoperating, initial startup period, malfunction period, or exempt operation for each recorded time interval.

(iii) Record the gallons of extraction solvent in the inventory on the beginning and ending dates of each normal operating period.

(iv) The gallons of all extraction solvent received, purchased, and recovered during each calendar month.

(v) All extraction solvent inventory adjustments, additions or subtractions. You must document the reason for the adjustment and justify the quantity of the adjustment.

(vi) The total solvent loss for each calendar month, regardless of the source operating status.

(vii) The actual solvent loss in gallons for each operating month.

(2) For the weighted average volume fraction of HAP in the extraction solvent, you must record the items in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) The gallons of extraction solvent received in each delivery.

(ii) The volume fraction of each HAP exceeding 1 percent by volume in each delivery of extraction solvent.

(iii) The weighted average volume fraction of HAP in extraction solvent received since the end of the last operating month as determined in accordance with § 63.2854(b)(2).

(3) For each type of listed oilseed processed, record the items in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section, in accordance with your plan for demonstrating compliance:

(i) The dates that define each operating status period. These dates must be the same as the dates entered for the extraction solvent inventory.

(ii) The operating status of your source, as described in § 63.2853(a)(2). On the log for each type of listed oilseed that is not being processed during a normal operating period, you must record which type of listed oilseed is being processed in addition to the source operating status.

(iii) The oilseed inventory for the type of listed oilseed being processed on the beginning and ending dates of each normal operating period.

(iv) The tons of each type of listed oilseed received at the affected source each normal operating period.

(v) All listed oilseed inventory adjustments, additions or subtractions for normal operating periods. You must document the reason for the adjustment and justify the quantity of the adjustment.

(vi) The tons of each type of listed oilseed processed during each operating month.

(d) After your source has processed listed oilseed for 12 operating months, record the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section by the end of the calendar month following each operating month:

(1) The 12 operating months rolling sum of the actual solvent loss in gallons as described in § 63.2853(c).

(2) The weighted average volume fraction of HAP in extraction solvent received for the previous 12 operating months as described in § 63.2854(b)(3).

(3) The 12 operating months rolling sum of each type of listed oilseed processed at the affected source in tons as described in § 63.2855(c).

(4) A determination of the compliance ratio. Using the values from §§ 63.2853, 63.2854, 63.2855, and Table 1 of § 63.2840, calculate the compliance ratio using Equation 2 of § 63.2840.

(5) A statement of whether the source is in compliance with all of the requirements of this subpart. This includes a determination of whether you have met all of the applicable requirements in § 63.2850.

(e) Before September 15, 2020, for each SSM event subject to an initial startup period as described in § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2), or a malfunction period as described in § 63.2850(e)(2), record the items in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section by the end of the calendar month following each month in which the initial startup period or malfunction period occurred. The provisions of this paragraph (e) do not apply on and after September 15, 2020.

(1) A description and date of the SSM event, its duration, and reason it qualifies as an initial startup or malfunction.

(2) An estimate of the solvent loss in gallons for the duration of the initial startup or malfunction period with supporting documentation.

(3) A checklist or other mechanism to indicate whether the SSM plan was followed during the initial startup or malfunction period.

(f) On and after September 15, 2020, for each initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2), record the items in paragraphs (f)(1) through (6) of this section by the end of the calendar month following each month in which the initial startup period occurred.

(1) A description and dates of the initial startup period, and reason it qualifies as an initial startup.

(2) An estimate of the solvent loss in gallons for the duration of the initial startup or malfunction period with supporting documentation.

(3) Nominal design rate of the extractor and operating rate of the extractor for the duration of the initial startup period, or permitted production rate and actual production rate of your source for the duration of the initial startup period.

(4) Measured values for temperature and pressure for the desolventizing and oil distillation units associated with solvent recovery.

(5) Information to indicate the mineral oil absorption system was operating at all times during the initial startup period.

(6) Information to indicate the solvent condensers were operating at all times during the initial startup period.

(g) On and after September 15, 2020, keep the records of deviations specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section for each compliance determination you make in which the compliance ratio exceeds 1.00 as determined under § 63.2840(c) or if you deviate from the work practice standard for an initial startup period subject to § 63.2850(c)(2) or (d)(2).

(1) The number of deviations, and the date and duration of each deviation. For deviations from the compliance ratio, the date of the deviation is the date the compliance ratio determination is made. The duration of the deviation from the compliance ratio is the length of time taken to address the cause of the deviation, including the duration of any malfunction, and return the affected unit(s) to its normal or usual manner of operation. For deviations from the work practice standard during the initial startup period, the date of the deviation is the date(s) when the facility fails to comply with any of the work practice standard in § 63.2840(h). The duration of the deviation from the work practice standard is the length of time taken to return to the work practice standards.

(2) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(3) For each deviation, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(4) Actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.2840(g), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(5) If you deviate from the work practice standard for an initial startup period, a description of the deviation from the work practice standard.

(h) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
