
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Operation, Maintenance, and Monitoring Plan
####### ยง 63.2990 Can I conduct short-term experimental production runs that cause parameters to deviate from operating limits?

With the approval of the Administrator, you may conduct short-term experimental production runs during which your operating parameters deviate from the operating limits. Experimental runs may include, but are not limited to, runs using resin with a higher free-formaldehyde content than specified in the OMM plan, or using experimental pollution prevention techniques. To conduct a short-term experimental production run, you must complete the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) Prepare an application to the Administrator for approval to conduct the experimental production runs. Your application must include the items listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The purpose of the experimental production run.

(2) Identification of the affected line.

(3) An explanation of how the operating parameters will deviate from the previously approved ranges and limits.

(4) The duration of the experimental production run.

(5) The date and time of the experimental production run.

(6) A description of any emission testing to be performed during the experimental production run.

(b) Submit the application to the Administrator for approval at least 30 days before you conduct the experimental production run.

(c) If you conduct such experimental production runs without first receiving approval from the Administrator, then you must conduct a performance test under those same experimental production run conditions to show that you were in compliance with the formaldehyde emission limits in ยง 63.2983.
