
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Emission Limitations
####### § 63.2984 What operating limits must I meet?

(a) You must maintain operating parameters within established limits or ranges specified in your operation, maintenance, and monitoring (OMM) plan described in § 63.2987. If there is a deviation of any of the specified parameters from the limit or range specified in the OMM plan, you must address the deviation according to paragraph (b) of this section. You must comply with the operating limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) You must operate the thermal oxidizer so that the average operating temperature in any 3-hour block period does not fall below the temperature established during your performance test and specified in your OMM plan, except during periods when using a non-HAP binder.

(2) You must not use a resin with a free-formaldehyde content greater than that of the resin used during your performance test and specified in your OMM plan.

(3) You must operate the wet-formed fiberglass mat production process so that the average urea formaldehyde resin solids application rate in any 3-hour block period does not exceed the average application rate achieved during your performance test and specified in your OMM plan.

(4) If you use an add-on control device other than a thermal oxidizer or wish to monitor an alternative parameter and comply with a different operating limit than the limit specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must obtain approval for the alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f). You must include the approved alternative monitoring and operating limits in the OMM plan specified in § 63.2987.

(b) When during a period of normal operation, you detect that an operating parameter deviates from the limit or range established in paragraph (a) of this section, you must initiate corrective actions within 1 hour according to the provisions of your OMM plan. The corrective actions must be completed in an expeditious manner as specified in the OMM plan.

(c) You must maintain and inspect control devices according to the procedures specified in the OMM plan.

(d) You must include the operating limits specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section and their allowable ranges or levels in your OMM plan. Your 40 CFR part 70 operating permit for the drying and curing oven must contain a requirement that you develop and operate according to an OMM plan at all times.

(e) If you use a thermal oxidizer or other control device to achieve the emission limits in § 63.2983, you must capture and convey the formaldehyde emissions from each drying and curing oven according to the procedures in Chapters 3 and 5 of "Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice" (23rd Edition) or the appropriate chapters of "Industrial Ventilation: A Manual of Recommended Practice for Design" (27th Edition) (both are incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). In addition, you may use an alternate as approved by the Administrator.
