
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.159 Final permit issuance and administrative and judicial review.
######## What is an administrative permit revision?

(f)The following provisions govern administrative permit revisions.

(1) An administrative permit revision is a permit revision that makes any of the following changes:

(i) Corrects typographical errors.

(ii) Identifies a change in the name, address or phone number of any person identified in the permit or provides a similar minor administrative change at the source.

(iii) Requires more frequent monitoring or reporting by the permittee.

(iv) Allows for a change in ownership or operational control of a source where the reviewing authority determines that no other change in the permit is necessary, provided that a written agreement containing a specific date for transfer of permit responsibility, coverage and liability between the current and new permittee has been submitted to the reviewing authority.

(v) Establishes an increase in an emissions unit's annual allowable emissions limit for a regulated NSR pollutant, when the action that necessitates such increase is not otherwise subject to review under major NSR or under this program.

(vi) Incorporates any other type of change that the reviewing authority has determined to be similar to those in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(2) An administrative permit revision is not subject to the permit application, issuance, public participation or administrative and judicial review requirements of this program.
