
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.2994 How do I verify the performance of monitoring equipment?
######## i.e.,

(2) Develop and implement a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) quality control program that includes written procedures for CPMS according to § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). You must keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this subpart, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If you revise the performance evaluation plan, you must keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. You should include the program of corrective action in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).

(3) Conduct a performance evaluation of the CPMS according to § 63.8(e) which specifies the general requirements and requirements for notifications, the site-specific performance evaluation plan, conduct of the performance evaluation, and reporting of performance evaluation results.

(b) If you use a thermal oxidizer, the temperature monitoring device must meet the performance and equipment specifications listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) The temperature monitoring device must be installed either at the exit of the combustion zone of each thermal oxidizer, or at the location specified by the manufacturer. The temperature monitoring device must also be installed in a location before any heat recovery or heat exchange equipment, and it must remain in the same location for both the performance test and the continuous monitoring of temperature.

(2) The recorder response range must include zero and 1.5 times the average temperature required in § 63.2984(a)(1).

(3) The measurement method or reference method for calibration must be a National Institute of Standards and Technology calibrated reference thermocouple-potentiometer system or an alternate reference subject to the approval of the Administrator.
