
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.2998 What records must I maintain?

You must maintain records according to the procedures of § 63.10. You must maintain the records listed in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section.

(a) All records required by § 63.10, where applicable. Table 2 of this subpart presents the applicable requirements of the general provisions.

(b) The OMM plan.

(c) During periods when the binder formulation being applied contains HAP, records of values of monitored parameters listed in Table 1 to this subpart to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart. If you do not monitor the parameters in Table 1 to this subpart during periods when using non-HAP binder, you must record the dates and times that production of mat using non-HAP binder began and ended.

(d) Records of maintenance and inspections performed on the control devices.

(e) Before August 28, 2019, for existing drying and curing ovens and drying and curing ovens constructed or reconstructed after May 26, 2000 and before April 7, 2018, if an operating parameter deviation occurs, you must record:

(1) The date, time, and duration of the operating parameter deviation;

(2) A brief description of the cause of the operating parameter deviation;

(3) The dates and times at which corrective actions were initiated and completed;

(4) A brief description of the corrective actions taken to return the parameter to the limit or to within the range specified in the OMM plan; and

(5) A record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

(f) Before August 28, 2019, for existing drying and curing ovens and drying and curing ovens constructed or reconstructed after May 26, 2000 and before April 7, 2018, keep all records specified in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. Records specified in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) are not required to be kept after August 27, 2019 for existing or new drying and curing ovens.

(g) After February 28, 2019 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after April 6, 2018, and after August 27, 2019 for all other affected sources, in the event that an affected source fails to meet an applicable standard, including deviations from an emission limit in § 63.2983 or an operating limit in § 63.2984, you must record the number of failures and, for each failure, you must:

(1) Record the date, time, and duration of the failure;

(2) Describe the cause of the failure;

(3) Record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; and

(4) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.2986(g)(2) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation and/or to return the operating parameter to the limit or to within the range specified in the OMM plan, and the dates and times at which corrective actions were initiated and completed.

(h) If you operate your process or control device under alternative operating condition and have established operating limits for each condition as specified in § 63.2989(c), then you must keep records of the date and time you changed operations from one condition to another, the condition under which you are operating, and the applicable operating limits for that condition.

(i) Records showing how the maximum residence time was derived.
