
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.3000 What notifications and reports must I submit?
######## Deviations.

(5)Before August 28, 2019, for existing drying and curing ovens and drying and curing ovens constructed or reconstructed after May 26, 2000 and before April 7, 2018, if there was a deviation from the emission limit in ยง 63.2983 or an operating limit in ยง 63.2984, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (ix) of this section:

(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.

(ii) The date and time that each continuous parameter monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(iii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous parameter monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in ยง 63.8(c)(8).

(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(v) The date and time that corrective actions were taken, a description of the cause of the deviation, and a description of the corrective actions taken.

(vi) A summary of the total duration of each deviation during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(vii) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(viii) A brief description of the associated process units.

(ix) A brief description of the associated continuous parameter monitoring system.
