
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.3002 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority, such as your State, local, or tribal agency. If the Administrator has delegated authority to your State, local, or tribal agency, then that agency is the primary enforcement authority. If the Administrator has not delegated authority to your State, only EPA enforces this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if implementation and enforcement of this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under section 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.

(1) The authority under § 63.6(g) to approve alternatives to the emission limits in § 63.2983 and operating limits in § 63.2984 is not delegated.

(2) The authority under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) to approve of major alternatives (as defined in § 63.90) to the test methods in § 63.2993 is not delegated.

(3) The authority under § 63.8(f) to approve major alternatives (as defined in § 63.90) to the monitoring requirements in §§ 63.2996 and 63.2997 is not delegated.

(4) The authority under § 63.10(f) to approve major alternatives (as defined in § 63.90) to recordkeeping, notification, and reporting requirements in §§ 63.2998 through 63.3000 is not delegated.
