
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.3000 What notifications and reports must I submit?
######## Deviations.

(6)For affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after April 6, 2018, after February 28, 2019, and after August 27, 2019 for all other affected sources, if there was an instance where an affected source failed to meet an applicable standard, including a deviation from the emission limit in ยง 63.2983 or an operating limit in ยง 63.2984, the semiannual compliance report must record the number of failures and contain the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) through (ix) of this section:

(i) The date, time, and duration of each failure.

(ii) The date and time that each continuous parameter monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(iii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous parameter monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in ยง 63.8(c)(8).

(iv) A list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(v) The date and time that corrective actions were taken, a description of the cause of the failure (including unknown cause, if applicable), and a description of the corrective actions taken.

(vi) A summary of the total duration of each failure during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(vii) A breakdown of the total duration of the failures during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(viii) A brief description of the associated process units.

(ix) A brief description of the associated continuous parameter monitoring system.
