
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Wet-Formed Fiberglass Mat Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart HHHH of Part 63 - Method for Determining Free-Formaldehyde in Urea-Formaldehyde Resins by Sodium Sulfite (Iced & Cooled)

This procedure corresponds to the Housing and Urban Development method of determining free-formaldehyde in urea-formaldehyde resins. This method applies to samples that decompose to yield formaldehyde under the conditions of other free-formaldehyde methods. The primary use is for urea-formaldehyde resins.

Formaldehyde will react with sodium sulfite to form the sulfite addition products and liberate sodium hydroxide (NaOH); however, at room temperature, the methanol groups present will also react to liberate NaOH. Titrate at 0 degrees Celsius (&#xB0;C) to minimize the reaction of the methanol groups.

2.1.1 Ice crusher.

2.1.2 One 100-milliliter (mL) graduated cylinder.

2.1.3 Three 400-mL beakers.

2.1.4 One 50-mL burette.

2.1.5 Analytical balance accurate to 0.1 milligrams (mg).

2.1.6 Magnetic stirrer.

2.1.7 Magnetic stirring bars.

2.1.8 Disposable pipettes.

2.1.9 Several 5-ounce (oz.) plastic cups.

2.1.10 Ice cube trays (small cubes).

2.2.1 Ice cubes (made with distilled water).

2.2.2 A solution of 1 molar (M) sodium sulfite (NaSO) (63 grams (g) NaSO/500 mL water (HO) neutralized to thymolphthalein endpoint).

2.2.3 Standardized 0.1 normal (N) hydrochloric acid (HCl).

2.2.4 Thymolphthalein indicator (1.0 g thymolphthalein/199 g methanol).

2.2.5 Sodium chloride (NaCl) (reagent grade).

2.2.6 Sodium hydroxide (NaOH).

2.3.1 Prepare sufficient quantity of crushed ice for three determinations (two trays of cubes).

2.3.2 Put 70 cubic centimeters (cc) of 1 M NaSOsolution into a 400-mL beaker. Begin stirring and add approximately 100 g of crushed ice and 2 g of NaCl. Maintain 0 &#xB0;C during test, adding ice as necessary.

2.3.3 Add 10-15 drops of thymolphthalein indicator to the chilled solution. If the solution remains clear, add 0.1 N NaOH until the solution turns blue; then add 0.1 N HCl back to the colorless endpoint. If the solution turns blue upon adding the indicator, add 0.1 N HCl to the colorless endpoint.
