
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.3100 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limitations in §§ 63.3090 and 63.3091 at all times, as determined on a monthly basis.

(b) Before January 5, 2021, the coating operations must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.3093 at all times except during periods of SSM. On and after January 5, 2021, the coating operations must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.3093 at all times.

(c) You must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.3094 at all times.

(d) Before January 5, 2021, you must always operate and maintain your affected source including all air pollution control and monitoring equipment you use for purposes of complying with this subpart according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after January 5, 2021, at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.

(e) You must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) during the period between the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.3083 and the date when the initial emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests have been completed, as specified in § 63.3160.

(f) Before January 5, 2021, if your affected source uses emission capture systems and add-on control devices, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). The SSMP must address startup, shutdown, and corrective actions in the event of a malfunction of the emission capture system or the add-on control devices. On and after January 5, 2021, the SSMP is not required.
