
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.160 Registration program for minor sources in Indian country.
######## Content.

(2)You must submit all registration information on forms provided by the reviewing authority. Each registration must include the following information, as applicable:

(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.

(ii) A description of your source's processes and products.

(iii) A list of all emissions units (with the exception of the exempt emissions units and activities listed in ยง 49.153(c)).

(iv) For each emissions unit that is listed, both the allowable and estimated actual annual emissions of each regulated NSR pollutant in tpy (including fugitive emissions, to the extent that they are quantifiable, if the emissions unit or source is in one of the source categories listed in ยง 51, Appendix S, paragraph II.A.4(iii) or ยง 52.21(b)(1)(iii) of this chapter), with supporting documentation.

(v) The following information: Fuels, fuel use, raw materials, production rates and operating schedules.

(vi) Identification and description of any existing air pollution control equipment and compliance monitoring devices or activities.

(vii) Any existing limitations on source operation affecting emissions or any work practice standards, where applicable, for all NSR regulated pollutants at the source.

(viii) Any other information specifically requested by the reviewing authority.
