
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.3120 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: Separate electrodeposition primer organic HAP content limit.

(7)Before January 5, 2021, if you used the separate electrodeposition primer organic HAP content limits in ยง 63.3092(a), and there was a deviation from these limits, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, if you used the separate electrodeposition primer organic HAP content limits in ยง 63.3092(a), and there was a deviation from these limits, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Identification of each material used that deviated from the emission limit, and the date, time, and duration each was used.

(ii) The determination of mass fraction of each organic HAP for each material identified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by material suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(iii) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown case, if applicable).

(iv) On and after January 5, 2021, the number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in ยง 63.3092(a), and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
