
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3120 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: adhesive, sealer, and deadener.

(5)Before January 5, 2021, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limits in § 63.3090(c) and (d) or § 63.3091(c) and (d), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limits in § 63.3090(c) and (d) or § 63.3091(c) and (d), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The beginning and ending dates of each month during which the monthly average organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.3090(c) and (d) or § 63.3091(c) and (d).

(ii) The volume and organic HAP content of each material used that is subject to the applicable organic HAP content limit.

(iii) The calculation used to determine the average monthly organic HAP content for the month in which the deviation occurred.

(iv) The reason for the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(v) On and after January 5, 2021, the number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the applicable emission limit in § 63.3090(c) and (d) or § 63.3091(c) and (d), and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
