
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3120 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations:

(6)combined electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer and glass bonding adhesive, or combined primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c). Before January 5, 2021, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limits in § 63.3090(a) or (b) or § 63.3091(a) or (b) or the applicable operating limit(s) in table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (xiv) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limits in § 63.3090(a) or (b) or § 63.3091(a) or (b) or the applicable operating limit(s) in table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (xv) of this section.

(i) The beginning and ending dates of each month during which the monthly organic HAP emission rate from combined electrodeposition primer, primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c) exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.3090(a) or § 63.3091(a); or the monthly organic HAP emission rate from combined primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c) exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.3090(b) or § 63.3091(b).

(ii) The calculation used to determine the monthly organic HAP emission rate in accordance with § 63.3161 or § 63.3171. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations, for example information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(iii) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices used to control emissions from these operations started and stopped.

(iv) A brief description of the CPMS.

(v) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(vi) Before January 5, 2021, the date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. On and after January 5, 2021, for each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.

(vii) Before January 5, 2021, the date and time period that each CPMS was out of control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8). On and after January 5, 2021, for each instance that the CPMS was out of control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.

(viii) Before January 5, 2021, The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart; date and time period of each bypass of an add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period. On and after January 5, 2021, the date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart; and the date, time, and duration of each bypass of an add-on control device.

(ix) A summary of the total duration and the percent of the total source operating time of the deviations from each operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and the bypass of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period.

(x) Before January 5, 2021, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from each operating limit in table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On and after January 5, 2021, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from each operating limit in table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(xi) A summary of the total duration and the percent of the total source operating time of the downtime for each CPMS during the semiannual reporting period.

(xii) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control devices since the last semiannual reporting period.

(xiii) Before January 5, 2021, for each deviation from the work practice standards a description of the deviation, the date and time period of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, for deviations from the work practice standards, the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(xiii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) A description of the deviation, the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3100(d).

(B) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(xiv) Before January 5, 2021, a statement of the cause of each deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, for deviations from an emission limitation in § 63.3090(a) or (b) or § 63.3091(a) or (b) or operating limit in table 1 of this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(xv) On and after January 5, 2021, for each deviation from an emission limitation in § 63.3090(a) or (b), or § 63.3091(a) or (b), or operating limit in table 1 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.3090(a) or (b) or § 63.3091(a) or (b), and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
