
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.3120 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: Work practice plans.

(9)Before January 5, 2021, if there was a deviation from an applicable work practice plan developed in accordance with ยง 63.3094(b) or (c), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, if there were deviations from an applicable work practice plan developed in accordance with ยง 63.3094(b) or (c), the semiannual compliance report must contain the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, the information in paragraphs (a)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Before January 5, 2021, the time period during which each deviation occurred. On and after January 5, 2021, the date, time, and duration of the deviation.

(ii) Before January 5, 2021, the nature of each deviation. On and after January 5, 2021, the nature of the deviation, including a list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred, and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(iii) The corrective action(s) taken to bring the applicable work practices into compliance with the work practice plan.
