
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3120 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: Separate electrodeposition primer bake oven capture and control limitations.

(8)Before January 5, 2021, if you used the separate electrodeposition primer bake oven capture and control limitations in § 63.3092(b), and there was a deviation from the limitations in § 63.3092(b) or the applicable operating limit in table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (xii) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, if you used the separate electrodeposition primer bake oven capture and control limitations in § 63.3092(b), and there was a deviation from the limitations in § 63.3092(b) or the applicable operating limit in table 1 to this subpart, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (xiv) of this section.

(i) The beginning and ending dates of each month during which there was a deviation from the separate electrodeposition primer bake oven capture and control limitations in § 63.3092(b).

(ii) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture systems or control devices used to control emissions from the electrodeposition primer bake oven started and stopped.

(iii) A brief description of the CPMS.

(iv) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(v) Before January 5, 2021, the date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. On and after January 5, 2021, for each instance that the CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.

(vi) Before January 5, 2021, the date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out of control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8). On and after January 5, 2021, for each instance that the CPMS was out of control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.

(vii) Before January 5, 2021, the date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart; date and time period of each bypass of an add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period. On and after January 5, 2021, the date, time, and duration of each deviation from an operating limit in table 1 to this subpart; and the date, time, and duration of each bypass of an add-on control device.

(viii) A summary of the total duration and the percent of the total source operating time of the deviations from each operating limit in Table 1 to this subpart and the bypasses of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period.

(ix) Before January 5, 2021, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from each operating limit in table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On and after January 5, 2021, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from each operating limit in table 1 to this subpart and bypasses of each add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(x) A summary of the total duration and the percent of the total source operating time of the downtime for each CPMS during the semiannual reporting period.

(xi) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control devices since the last semiannual reporting period.

(xii) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).
