
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.160 Registration program for minor sources in Indian country.
######## i.e.,

(i) Estimates of allowable emissions must be consistent with the definition of that term in ยง 49.152(d). Allowable emissions must be calculated based on 8,760 operating hours per year (operating 24 hours per day, 365 days per year) unless the reviewing authority approves a different number of annual operating hours as the basis for the calculation.

(ii) Estimates of actual emissions must take into account equipment, operating conditions and air pollution control measures. For a source that operated during the entire calendar year preceding the initial registration submittal, the reported actual emissions typically should be the annual emissions for the preceding calendar year, calculated using the actual operating hours, production rates, in-place control equipment and types of materials processed, stored or combusted during the preceding calendar year. However, if you believe that the actual emissions in the preceding calendar year are not representative of the emissions that your source will actually emit in coming years, you may submit an estimate of projected actual emissions along with the actual emissions from the preceding calendar year and the rationale for the projected actual emissions. For a source that has not operated for an entire year, the actual emissions are the estimated annual emissions for the current calendar year.

(iii) The allowable and actual emission estimates must be based upon actual test data or, in the absence of such data, upon procedures acceptable to the reviewing authority. Any emission estimates submitted to the reviewing authority must be verifiable using currently accepted engineering criteria. The following procedures are generally acceptable for estimating emissions from air pollution sources:

(i) Source-specific emission tests;

(ii) Mass balance calculations;

(iii) Published, verifiable emission factors that are applicable to the source;

(iv) Other engineering calculations or

(v) Other procedures to estimate emissions specifically approved by the Regional Administrator.
