
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3130 What records must I keep?
######## see

(5) A record of the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for primer-surfacer, topcoat, final repair, glass bonding primer, and glass bonding adhesive plus all coatings and thinners, except for deadener materials and for adhesive and sealer materials that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c) for each month if subject to the emission limit of § 63.3090(b) or § 63.3091(b), and a record of the weight fraction of each organic HAP in each material added to the electrodeposition primer system if subject to the limitations of § 63.3092(a). This record must include all raw data, algorithms, and intermediate calculations. If the guidelines presented in the "Protocol for Determining the Daily Volatile Organic Compound Emission Rate of Automobile and Light-Duty Truck Primer-Surfacer and Topcoat" EPA-453/R-08-002 (incorporated by reference,§ 63.14), are used, you must keep records of all data input to this protocol. If these data are maintained as electronic files, the electronic files, as well as any paper copies must be maintained. These data must be provided to the permitting authority on request on paper, and in (if calculations are done electronically) electronic form.

(6) A record, for each month, of the calculation of the average monthly mass organic HAP content of:

(i) Sealers and adhesives; and

(ii) Deadeners.

(d) A record of the name and volume of each cleaning material used during each month.

(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each cleaning material used during each month.

(f) A record of the density for each cleaning material used during each month.

(g) Before January 5, 2021, a record of the date, time, and duration of each deviation, and for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM. On and after January 5, 2021, for each deviation from an emission limitation, operating limit, or work practice plan reported under § 63.3120(a)(5) through (9), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.

(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, and for each deviation, the information as reported under § 63.3120(a)(5) through (9).

(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.3120(a)(5) through (9).

(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.3090(a) through (d) or § 63.3091(a) through (d) or any applicable operating limit in table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.3120(a)(5) through (9).

(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3100(d) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(h) Before January 5, 2021, the records required by § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to SSM. On and after January 5, 2021, the provisions of this paragraph no longer apply.

(i) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.3165(a).

(j) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.3164 and 63.3165(b) through (g), including the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section that apply to you.
