
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3130 What records must I keep?
######## Records for an alternative protocol.

(4)Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol, as specified in § 63.3165(f), if applicable.

(k) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) and (2) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.3166.

(1) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.3164 and 63.3166.

(2) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.

(l) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.3167 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 1 to this subpart.

(m) Records of the data and calculations you used to determine the transfer efficiency for primer-surfacer and topcoat coatings and for all coatings, except for deadener and for adhesive and sealer that are not components of glass bonding systems, used in coating operations added to the affected source pursuant to § 63.3082(c).

(n) A record of the work practice plans required by § 63.3094(b) and (c) and documentation that you are implementing the plans on a continuous basis. Appropriate documentation may include operational and maintenance records, records of documented inspections, and records of internal audits.

(o) For each add-on control device and for each continuous parameter monitoring system, a copy of the equipment operating instructions must be maintained on-site for the life of the equipment in a location readily available to plant operators and inspectors. You may prepare your own equipment operating instructions, or they may be provided to you by the equipment supplier or other third party.

(p) On and after January 5, 2021, any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
