
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.3300 Which of my emission sources are affected by this subpart?

The affected source subject to this subpart is the collection of all web coating lines at your facility. This includes web coating lines engaged in the coating of metal webs that are used in flexible packaging, and web coating lines engaged in the coating of fabric substrates for use in pressure sensitive tape and abrasive materials. Web coating lines specified in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section are not part of the affected source of this subpart.

(a) Any web coating line that is stand-alone equipment under subpart KK of this part (National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP) for the Printing and Publishing Industry) which the owner or operator includes in the affected source under subpart KK.

(b) Any web coating line that is a product and packaging rotogravure or wide-web flexographic press under subpart KK of this part (NESHAP for the Printing and Publishing Industry) which is included in the affected source under subpart KK.

(c) Web coating in lithography, screenprinting, letterpress, and narrow-web flexographic printing processes.

(d) Any web coating line subject to subpart EE of this part (NESHAP for Magnetic Tape Manufacturing Operations).

(e) Any web coating line subject to subpart SSSS of this part (NESHAP for Surface Coating of Metal Coil).

(f) Any web coating line subject to subpart OOOO of this part (NESHAP for the Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles). This includes any web coating line that coats both a paper or other web substrate and a fabric or other textile substrate, except for a fabric substrate used for pressure sensitive tape and abrasive materials.

(g) Any web coating line that is defined as research or laboratory equipment in ยง 63.3310.

(h) Any web coating line that coats both paper or a web, and another substrate such as fabric, may comply with the subpart of this part that applies to the predominant activity conducted on the affected source. Predominant activity for this subpart is 90 percent of the mass of substrate coated during the compliance period. For example, a web coating line that coats 90 percent or more of a paper substrate, and 10 percent or less of a fabric or other textile substrate, would be subject to this subpart and not subpart OOOO of this part. You may use data for any reasonable time period of at least one year in determining the relative amount of coating activity, as long as they are expected to represent the way the source will continue to operate in the future. You must demonstrate and document the predominant activity annually.

(i) Any web coating line subject to this part that is modified to include printing activities, may continue to demonstrate compliance with this part, in lieu of demonstrating compliance with subpart KK of this part. Any web coating line with product and packaging rotogravure print station(s) and/or a wide-web flexographic print station(s) that is subject to this subpart may elect to continue demonstrating compliance with this subpart in lieu of subpart KK of this part, if the mass of the materials applied to the line's print station(s) in a month ever exceed 5 percent of the total mass of materials applied onto the line during the same period.

(j) If all of the subject web coating lines at your facility utilize non-HAP coatings, you can become exempt from the reporting requirements of this subpart, provided you submit a one-time report as required in ยง 63.3370(s) to your permitting authority documenting the use of only non-HAP coatings.
