
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Emission Standards and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.3330 When must I comply?

(a) For affected sources which commenced construction or reconstruction prior to September 19, 2019, you must comply as follows:

(1) Before July 9, 2021, the affected coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.3320 at all times, except during periods of SSM. On and after July 9, 2021, the affected coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.3320 at all times, including periods of SSM.

(2) A periodic emissions performance test must be performed by July 9, 2023, or within 60 months of the previous test, whichever is later, and subsequent tests no later than 60 months thereafter, as required in § 63.3360. Performance testing for HAP or VOC destruction efficiency required by state agencies can be used to meet this requirement.

(3) After July 9, 2021, you must electronically submit initial notifications, notifications of compliance status, performance evaluation reports, and performance test reports, as required in § 63.3400. Semiannual compliance reports must be submitted electronically for the first full semiannual compliance period after the template has been available in the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) for 1 year.

(b) For new affected sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after September 19, 2019, you must comply as indicated in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. Existing affected sources which have undergone reconstruction as defined in § 63.2 are subject to the requirements for new affected sources. The costs associated with the purchase and installation of air pollution control equipment are not considered in determining whether the existing affected source has been reconstructed. Additionally, the costs of retrofitting and replacing of equipment that is installed specifically to comply with this subpart are not considered reconstruction costs.

(1) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.3320 at all times, including periods of SSM, starting July 9, 2020, or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.

(2) You must complete any initial performance test required in § 63.3360 within the time limits specified in § 63.7(a)(2), and subsequent tests no later than 60 months thereafter.

(3) You must electronically submit initial notifications, notifications of compliance status, performance evaluation reports, and performance test reports as required in § 63.3400 starting July 9, 2020, or immediately upon startup, whichever is later. Semiannual compliance reports must be submitted electronically for the first full semiannual compliance period after the template has been available in CEDRI for 1 year.
