
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### § 63.3340 What general requirements must I meet to comply with the standards?

(a) Before July 9, 2021, for each existing source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before September 19, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emission limits and operating limits in this subpart at all times, except during periods of SSM. On and after July 9, 2021, for each such source you must be in compliance with the emission limits and operating limits in this subpart at all times. For new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after September 19, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emission limits and operating limits in this subpart at all times, starting July 9, 2020, or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.

(b) For affected sources as of September 19, 2019, before July 9, 2021, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including all air pollution control and monitoring equipment you use for purposes of complying with this subpart, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after July 9, 2021, for such sources and on July 9, 2020, or immediately upon startup, whichever is later, for new or reconstructed affected sources, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(c) You must conduct each performance test required by § 63.3360 according to the requirements in § 63.3360(e)(2) and under the conditions in this section unless you obtain a waiver of the performance test according to the provisions in § 63.7(h).

(1) Representative coating operation operating conditions. You must conduct the performance test under representative operating conditions for the coating operation. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, and nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(2) Representative emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions. You must conduct the performance test when the emission capture system and add-on control device are operating at a representative flow rate, and the add-on control device is operating at a representative inlet concentration. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record information that is necessary to document emission capture system and add-on control device operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation.

(d) Table 2 to this subpart specifies the provisions of subpart A of this part that apply if you are subject to subpart JJJJ.
