
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.3350 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS).

(1)If you are demonstrating compliance with the emission standards in ยง 63.3320 through continuous emission monitoring of a control device, you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the CEMS according to paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Measure the total organic volatile matter mass flow rate at both the control device inlet and the outlet such that the reduction efficiency can be determined. Each continuous emission monitor must comply with performance specification 6, 8, or 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate.

(ii) You must follow the quality assurance procedures in procedure 1, appendix F of 40 CFR part 60. In conducting the quarterly audits of the monitors as required by procedure 1, appendix F, you must use compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled.

(iii) You must have valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours when the process is operated. Invalid or missing data should be reported as a deviation in the semiannual compliance report.
