
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.3350 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS).

(e)If you are using a control device to comply with the emission standards in ยง 63.3320, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraphs (e)(10) and (11) and (f) of this section according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section. You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS specified in paragraph (c) of this section according to paragraphs (e)(5) through (8) of this section.

(1) Each CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four equally spaced successive cycles of CPMS operation to have a valid hour of data.

(2) You must have valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours when the process operated.

(3) You must determine the hourly average of all recorded readings according to paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) To calculate a valid hourly value, you must have at least three of four equally spaced data values from that hour from a continuous monitoring system (CMS) that is not out-of-control.

(ii) Provided all of the readings recorded in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section clearly demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard that applies to you, then you are not required to determine the hourly average of all recorded readings.
