
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.3350 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Oxidizer.

(10)If you are using an oxidizer to comply with the emission standards of this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (e)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Install, maintain, and operate temperature monitoring equipment according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(ii) For an oxidizer other than a catalytic oxidizer, install, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Fahrenheit or +/-1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor must be installed in the combustion chamber at a location in the combustion zone.

(iii) For a catalytic oxidizer, install, operate, and maintain a temperature monitoring device equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must be capable of monitoring temperature with an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Fahrenheit or +/-1.8 degrees Fahrenheit, whichever is greater. The temperature sensor must be installed in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet and outlet of the catalyst bed. Calculate the temperature rise across the catalyst.

(iv) For temperature sensors, you must develop a quality control program that must contain, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes the procedures for verifying that the temperature sensor is operating properly using at least one of the methods in paragraph (e)(10)(iv)(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of this section. The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator:

(A) Semiannually, compare measured readings to a National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) traceable temperature measurement device or simulate a typical operating temperature using a NIST traceable temperature simulation device. When the temperature measurement device method is used, the sensor of the calibrated device must be placed as close as practicable to the process sensor, and both devices must be subjected to the same environmental conditions. The accuracy of the temperature measured must be 2.5 percent of the temperature measured by the NIST traceable device or 5 degrees Fahrenheit whichever is greater.

(B) Annually validate the temperature sensor by following applicable mechanical and electrical validation procedures in the manufacturer owner's manual.

(C) Annually request the temperature sensor manufacturer to certify or re-certify electromotive force (electrical properties) of the thermocouple.

(D) Annually replace the temperature sensor with a new certified temperature sensor in lieu of validation.

(E) Permanently install a redundant temperature sensor as close as practicable to the process temperature sensor. The sensors must yield a reading within 2.5 percent of each other for thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.

(F) Permanently install a temperature sensor with dual sensors to account for the possibility of failure.

(v) Conduct the validation checks in paragraph (e)(10)(iv)(A), (B), or (C) of this section any time the temperature sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.

(vi) At least quarterly, inspect temperature sensor components for proper connection and integrity or continuously operate an electronic monitoring system designed to notify personnel if the signal from the temperature sensor is interrupted.
