
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.3350 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Capture system monitoring.

(f)If you are complying with the emission standards in ยง 63.3320 through the use of a capture system and control device for one or more web coating lines, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan containing the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section for these capture systems. You must monitor the capture system in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section. You must make the monitoring plan available for inspection by the permitting authority upon request.

(1) The monitoring plan must:

(i) Identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency determined during the initial compliance test is maintained; and

(ii) Explain why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance; and

(iii) Identify the specific monitoring procedures.

(2) The monitoring plan must specify the operating parameter value or range of values that demonstrate compliance with the emission standards in ยง 63.3320. The specified operating parameter value or range of values must represent the conditions present when the capture system is being properly operated and maintained.

(3) You must conduct all capture system monitoring in accordance with the plan.

(4) Any deviation from the operating parameter value or range of values which are monitored according to the plan will be considered a deviation from the operating limit.

(5) You must review and update the capture system monitoring plan at least annually.
