
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### § 63.3350 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## i.e.,

(5) Except for temperature sensors, you must develop a quality control program that must contain, at a minimum, a written protocol that describes the procedures for each of the operations in § 63.3350(e)(5)(i) through (vi). The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. For temperature sensors, you must follow the requirements in § 63.3350(e)(10).

(i) Initial and any subsequent calibration of the continuous monitoring system (CMS);

(ii) Determination and adjustment of the calibration drift of the CMS;

(iii) Preventative maintenance of the CMS, including spare parts inventory;

(iv) Data recording, calculations, and reporting;

(v) Accuracy audit procedures, including sampling and analysis methods; and

(vi) Program of corrective action for a malfunctioning CMS.

(6) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check of the CPMS.

(7) At all times, you must maintain the monitoring system in proper working order including, but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.

(8) Except for monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, or required quality assurance or control activities (including calibration checks or required zero and span adjustments), you must conduct all monitoring at all times that the unit is operating. Data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities shall not be used for purposes of calculating the emissions concentrations and percent reductions specified in § 63.3370. You must use all the valid data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance of the control device and associated control system. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.

(9) Any averaging period for which you do not have valid monitoring data and such data are required constitutes a deviation, and you must notify the Administrator in accordance with § 63.3400(c).
