
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.3360 What performance tests must I conduct?
######## Method 311.

(1)You may test the coating material in accordance with Method 311 of appendix A of this part. The Method 311 determination may be performed by the manufacturer of the coating material and the results provided to the owner or operator. The organic HAP content must be calculated according to the criteria and procedures in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Include each organic HAP determined to be present at greater than or equal to 0.1 mass percent for Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-defined carcinogens as specified in section A.6.4 of appendix A to 29 CFR 1910.1200 and greater than or equal to 1.0 mass percent for other organic HAP compounds.

(ii) Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you include according to paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.3791).

(iii) Calculate the total mass fraction of organic HAP in the tested material by summing the counted individual organic HAP mass fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).
