
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### § 63.3360 What performance tests must I conduct?
######## Initial performance test.

(1)An initial performance test to establish the destruction or removal efficiency of the control device used to comply with the emission standards in § 63.3320 must be conducted such that control device inlet and outlet testing is conducted simultaneously, and the data are reduced in accordance with the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (ix) of this section. You must conduct three test runs as specified in § 63.7(e)(3), and each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(i) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used for sample and velocity traverses to determine sampling locations.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, or Method 2G of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used to determine gas volumetric flow rate.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight. You may also use as an alternative to Method 3B the manual method for measuring the oxygen, carbon dioxide, and carbon monoxide content of exhaust gas in ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 Part 10, (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).

(iv) Method 4 of appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used to determine stack gas moisture.

(v) Methods for determining the gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.

(vi) Method 25 or 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60 must be used to determine total gaseous non-methane organic matter concentration. Use the same test method for both the inlet and outlet measurements which must be conducted simultaneously. You must submit notice of the intended test method to the Administrator for approval along with notification of the performance test required under § 63.7(b). You must use Method 25A if any of the conditions described in paragraphs (e)(1)(vi)(A) through (D) of this section apply to the control device.

(A) The control device is not an oxidizer.

(B) The control device is an oxidizer but an exhaust gas volatile organic matter concentration of 50 ppmv or less is required to comply with the emission standards in § 63.3320; or

(C) The control device is an oxidizer but the volatile organic matter concentration at the inlet to the control system and the required level of control are such that they result in exhaust gas volatile organic matter concentrations of 50 ppmv or less; or

(D) The control device is an oxidizer but because of the high efficiency of the control device the anticipated volatile organic matter concentration at the control device exhaust is 50 ppmv or less, regardless of inlet concentration.

(vii) Except as provided in § 63.7(e)(3), each performance test must consist of three separate runs with each run conducted for at least 1 hour under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating under normal operating conditions. For the purpose of determining volatile organic compound concentrations and mass flow rates, the average of the results of all the runs will apply.

(viii) Volatile organic matter mass flow rates must be determined for each run specified in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section using Equation 1:

(ix) For each run, emission control device destruction or removal efficiency must be determined using Equation 2:

(x) The control device destruction or removal efficiency is determined as the average of the efficiencies determined in the test runs and calculated in Equation 2.
