
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### General Requirements for Compliance With the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.3360 What performance tests must I conduct?
######## Volatile matter retained in the coated web or otherwise not emitted to the atmosphere.

(g)You may choose to take into account the mass of volatile matter retained in the coated web after curing or drying or otherwise not emitted to the atmosphere when determining compliance with the emission standards in ยง 63.3320. If you choose this option, you must develop a site- and product-specific emission factor (EF) and determine the amount of volatile matter retained in the coated web or otherwise not emitted using Equation 3 to ยง 63.3360(g)(1). The EF must be developed by conducting a performance test using an approved EPA test method, or alternative approved by the Administrator by obtaining the average of a three-run test. You may additionally use manufacturer's emissions test data (as long as it replicates the facility's coating formulation and operating conditions), or a mass-balance type approach using a modified Method 24 (including ASTM D5403-93 for radiation-cureable coatings). The EF should equal the proportion of the mass of volatile organics emitted to the mass of volatile organics in the coating materials evaluated. You may use the EF in your compliance calculations only for periods that the work station(s) was (were) used to make the product, or a similar product, corresponding to that produced during the performance test. You must develop a separate EF for each group of different products that you choose to utilize an EF for calculating emissions by conducting a separate performance test for that group of products. You must conduct a periodic performance test to re-establish the EF if there is a change in coating formulation, operating conditions, or other change that could reasonably be expected to increase emissions since the time of the last test that was used to establish the EF.

(1) Calculate the mass of volatile organics retained in the coated web or otherwise not emitted for the month from each group of similar products using Equation 3:

(2) [Reserved]
