
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Requirements for Showing Compliance
####### § 63.3370 How do I demonstrate compliance with the emission standards?
######## Liquid-liquid material balance.

(1)Perform a monthly liquid-liquid material balance as specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (v) of this section and use the applicable equations in paragraphs (j)(1)(vi) through (ix) of this section to convert the data to units of the selected compliance option in paragraphs (f) through (i) of this section. Compliance is determined in accordance with paragraph (j)(1)(x) of this section.

(i) Determine the mass of each coating material applied on the web coating line or group of web coating lines controlled by a common solvent recovery device during the month.

(ii) If demonstrating compliance on the basis of organic HAP emission rate based on coating solids applied, organic HAP emission rate based on coating material applied, or emission of less than the calculated allowable organic HAP, determine the organic HAP content of each coating material as-applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.3360(c).

(iii) Determine the volatile organic content of each coating material as-applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.3360(d).

(iv) If demonstrating compliance on the basis of organic HAP emission rate based on coating solids applied or emission of less than the calculated allowable organic HAP, determine the coating solids content of each coating material applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.3360(d).

(v) Determine and monitor the amount of volatile organic matter recovered for the month according to the procedures in § 63.3350(d).
