
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Requirements for Showing Compliance
####### ยง 63.3370 How do I demonstrate compliance with the emission standards?
######## Monthly allowable organic HAP emissions.

(m)This paragraph provides the procedures and calculations for determining monthly allowable organic HAP emissions for use in demonstrating compliance in accordance with paragraph (d), (i), (j)(1)(x)(D), (j)(2)(xi)(D), or (l)(3)(iv) of this section. You will need to determine the amount of coating material applied at greater than or equal to 20 mass percent coating solids and the amount of coating material applied at less than 20 mass percent coating solids. The allowable organic HAP limit is then calculated based on coating material applied at greater than or equal to 20 mass percent coating solids complying with 0.2 kg organic HAP per kg coating solids at an existing affected source or 0.08 kg organic HAP per kg coating solids at a new affected source, and coating material applied at less than 20 mass percent coating solids complying with 4 mass percent organic HAP at an existing affected source and 1.6 mass-percent organic HAP at a new affected source as follows:

(1) Determine the as-purchased mass of each coating material applied each month.

(2) Determine the as-purchased coating solids content of each coating material applied each month in accordance with ยง 63.3360(d)(1).

(3) Determine the as-purchased mass fraction of each coating material which was applied at 20 mass percent or greater coating solids content on an as-applied basis.

(4) Determine the total mass of each solvent, diluent, thinner, or reducer added to coating materials which were applied at less than 20 mass percent coating solids content on an as-applied basis each month.

(5) Calculate the monthly allowable organic HAP emissions using Equation 17 for an existing affected source:

(n) [Reserved]
