
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Requirements for Showing Compliance
####### § 63.3370 How do I demonstrate compliance with the emission standards?
######## Mass-balance approach.

(r)As an alternative to § 63.3370(b) through (p), you may demonstrate monthly compliance using a mass-balance approach in accordance with this section, except for any month that you elect to meet the emission limitation in § 63.3320(b)(4). The mass-balance approach should be performed as follows:

(1) Separately for each individual/grouping(s) of lines, you must sum the mass of organic HAP emitted during the month and divide by the corresponding total mass of all organic HAP applied on the lines, or total mass of coating materials applied on the lines, or total mass of coating solids applied on the lines, for the same period, in accordance with the emission limitation that you have elected at § 63.3320(b)(1) through (3) for the month's demonstration. You may also choose to use volatile organic content as a surrogate for organic HAP for the compliance demonstration in accordance with § 63.3360(d). You are required to include all emissions and inputs that occur during periods that each line or grouping of lines operates in accordance with the applicability criteria in § 63.3300.

(2) You must include all of the organic HAP emitted by your individual/grouping(s) of lines, as follows.

(i) You must record the mass of organic HAP or volatile organic content utilized at all work stations of all of your individually/grouping(s) of lines. You must additionally record the mass of all coating materials applied at these work stations if you are demonstrating compliance for the month with the emission limitation at § 63.3320(b)(2) (the "coating materials" option). You must additionally record the mass of all coating solids applied at these work stations if you are demonstrating compliance for the month with the emission limitation at § 63.3320(b)(3) (the "coating solids" option).

(ii) You must assume that all of the organic HAP input to all never-controlled work stations is emitted, unless you have determined an emission factor in accordance with § 63.3360(g).
