
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3400 What notifications and reports must I submit?
######## Initial notifications.

(b)You must submit an initial notification as required by § 63.9(b), using the procedure in § 63.3400(h).

(1) Initial notification for existing affected sources must be submitted no later than 1 year before the compliance date specified in § 63.3330(a), or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(2) Initial notification for new and reconstructed affected sources must be submitted as required by § 63.9(b).

(3) For the purpose of this subpart, a title V or part 70 permit application may be used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b), provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required by § 63.9(b) and the State to which the permit application has been submitted has an approved operating permit program under part 70 of this chapter and has received delegation of authority from the EPA to implement and enforce this subpart.

(4) If you are using a permit application in lieu of an initial notification in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the permit application must be submitted by the same due date specified for the initial notification.

(c) You must submit a semiannual compliance report according to paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Compliance report dates.

(i) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.3330 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the calendar half immediately following the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.3330.

(ii) The first compliance report is due no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the calendar half immediately following the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.3330. Prior to the electronic template being available in CEDRI for one year, the report must be postmarked or delivered by the aforementioned dates. After the electronic template has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, the next full report must be submitted electronically as described in paragraph (h) of this section.

(iii) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(iv) Each subsequent compliance report must be submitted electronically no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(v) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.
