
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3400 What notifications and reports must I submit?
######## Compliance report contents.

(2)The compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section:

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iv) If there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit or operating limit) that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period, and that no CMS was inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, out-of-control, repaired, or adjusted.

(v) For each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit or operating limit) that applies to you and that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a CMS to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the following information:

(A) The total operating time of the web coating line(s) during the reporting period.

(B) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause), if applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limits in § 63.3320 for each monthly period covered in the report if the source failed to meet an applicable emission limit of this subpart.

(vi) For each deviation from an emission limit occurring at an affected source where you are using a CEMS or CPMS to comply with the emission limit in this subpart, you must include the following information:

(A) The total operating time of the web coating line(s) during the reporting period.

(B) The date and time that each CEMS and CPMS, if applicable, was inoperative except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(C) The date and time that each CEMS and CPMS, if applicable, was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(D) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(E) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of each deviation during the reporting period and the total duration of each deviation as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(F) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(G) A summary of the total duration (in hours) of CEMS and/or CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CEMS and/or CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(H) A breakdown of the total duration of CEMS and/or CPMS downtime during the reporting period into periods that are due to monitoring equipment malfunctions, non-monitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(I) The date of the latest CEMS and/or CPMS certification or audit.

(J) A description of any changes in CEMS, CPMS, or controls since the last reporting period.

(K) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limits in § 63.3320 for each monthly period covered in the report if the source failed to meet an applicable emission limit of this subpart.

(d) You must submit a Notification of Performance Tests as specified in §§ 63.7 and 63.9(e) if you are complying with the emission standard using a control device and you are required to conduct a performance test of the control device. This notification and the site-specific test plan required under § 63.7(c)(2) must identify the operating parameters to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency of the capture system and the control efficiency of the control device determined during the performance test are maintained. Unless EPA objects to the parameter or requests changes, you may consider the parameter approved.
