
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.3400 What notifications and reports must I submit?
######## Electronic reporting.,https://cdx.epa.gov/).,https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri)

(h)If you are required to submit reports following the procedure specified in this paragraph, you must submit reports to EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through EPA's CDX (Initial notifications and notifications of compliance status must be submitted as portable document formats (PDF) to CEDRI using the attachment module of the ERT. You must use the semiannual compliance report template on the CEDRI website (for this subpart 1 year after it becomes available. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. If you claim some of the information required to be submitted via CEDRI is CBI, submit a complete report, including information claimed to be CBI to EPA. The report must be generated using the appropriate form on the CEDRI website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to EPA via EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph.
