
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paper and Other Web Coating
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3410 What records must I keep?

(a) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section on a monthly basis in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(b)(1):

(1) Records specified in § 63.10(b)(2) of all measurements needed to demonstrate compliance with this standard as indicated in Table 2 to subpart JJJJ of part 63, including:

(i) Continuous emission monitor data in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3350(d);

(ii) Control device and capture system operating parameter data in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3350(c), (e), and (f);

(iii) Organic HAP content data for the purpose of demonstrating compliance in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3360(c);

(iv) Volatile matter and coating solids content data for the purpose of demonstrating compliance in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3360(d);

(v) Overall control efficiency determination using capture efficiency and control device destruction or removal efficiency test results in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3360(e) and (f);

(vi) Material usage, organic HAP usage, volatile matter usage, and coating solids usage and compliance demonstrations using these data in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3370(b), (c), and (d); and

(vii) Emission factor development calculations and HAP content for coating materials used to develop the emission factor as needed for § 63.3360(g).

(2) Records specified in § 63.10(c) for each CMS operated by the owner or operator in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3350(b), as indicated in Table 2 to subpart JJJJ of part 63.

(b) Each owner or operator of an affected source subject to this subpart must maintain records of all liquid-liquid material balances performed in accordance with the requirements of § 63.3370. The records must be maintained in accordance with the applicable requirements of § 63.10(b).

(c) For each deviation from an operating limit occurring at an affected source, you must record the following information.

(1) The total operating time the web coating line(s) controlled by the corresponding add-on control device and/or emission capture system during the reporting period.

(2) Date, time, duration, and cause of the deviations.

(3) If the facility determines by its monthly compliance demonstration, in accordance with § 63.3370, as applicable, that the source failed to meet an applicable emission limit of this subpart, you must record the following for the corresponding affected equipment:

(i) Record an estimate of the quantity of HAP (or VOC if used a surrogate in accordance with § 63.3360(d)) emitted in excess of the emission limit for the month, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(ii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3340(a), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(d) Records of results from the annual catalyst activity test, if applicable.

(e) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
