
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.3481 Am I subject to this subpart?
######## End coating.

(4)The end coating subcategory includes the application of end seal compounds and repair spray coatings to metal can ends. This subcategory includes three distinct coating type segments reflecting the end seal compounds and repair sprays appropriate for can ends with different end uses. Those are aseptic end seal compounds, nonaseptic end seal compounds, and repair spray coatings.

(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source, as defined in ยง 63.3482, that uses 5,700 liters (1,500 gallons (gal)) per year, or more, of coatings in the source category defined in paragraph (a) of this section and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit, considering controls, any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year.

(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating that meets the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Surface coating conducted at a source that uses only coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP, as determined according to ยง 63.3521(a).

(2) Surface coating subject to any other NESHAP in this part as of November 13, 2003.

(3) Surface coating and cleaning activities that use research or laboratory equipment or that are part of janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations.

(4) Surface coating of continuous metal coil that may subsequently be used in manufacturing cans. Subpart SSSS of this part covers surface coating performed on a continuous metal coil substrate.

(5) Surface coating of metal pails, buckets, and drums. Subpart MMMM of this part covers surface coating of all miscellaneous metal parts and products not explicitly covered by another subpart.
