
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3511 What reports must I submit?
######## e.g.,

(ii) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings and thinners used each month, using Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.3531 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.3531(e)(3); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.3531; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.3541, and Equations 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.3541, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.3541; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.3541, or Equation 4 in § 63.3531, if applicable. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).

(iii) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.

(iv) A brief description of the CPMS.

(v) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(vi) Before August 24, 2020, the date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. On and after August 24, 2020, the number of instances that the CPMS was inoperative, and for each instance, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being inoperative; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3500(b).

(vii) Before August 24, 2020, the date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out of control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8). On and after August 24, 2020, the number of instances that the CPMS was out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7) and, for each instance, the date, time, and duration that the CPMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CPMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.

(viii) Before August 24, 2020, the date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart; date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period. On and after August 24, 2020, the number of deviations from an operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart and, for each deviation, the date, time, and duration of each deviation; the date, time, and duration of any bypass of the add-on control device.

(ix) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(x) Before August 24, 2020, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 4 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On and after August 24, 2020, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 4 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(xi) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(xii) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.

(xiii) Before August 24, 2020, for each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation; the date, and time period of the deviation; and the actions you took to correct the deviation. On and after August 24, 2020, for deviations from the work practice standards, the number of deviations, and, for each deviation, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(xiii)(A) and (B) of this section:

(A) A description of the deviation; the date, time, and duration of the deviation; and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3500(b).

(B) The description required in paragraph (a)(7)(xiii)(A) of this section must include a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable.

(xiv) Before August 24, 2020, a statement of the cause of each deviation. On and after August 24, 2020, for deviations from an emission limit in § 63.3490 or an operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart, a statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable) and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3500(b).

(xv) On and after August 24, 2020, for each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.3490 or operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart, a list of the affected sources or equipment for which a deviation occurred, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.3490 or operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
