
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3512 What records must I keep?

You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep the records is a deviation from the applicable standard.

(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart and the documentation supporting each notification and report.

(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, such as manufacturer's formulation data, or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating and thinner and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or volume fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.

(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A record of the coating operations at which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) you used each option.

(2) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating, using Equation 1 of § 63.3521.

(3) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings and thinners used each month, using Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 2 of § 63.3531 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.3531(e)(3); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.3531; and the calculation of each 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 3 of § 63.3531, or Equation 4 in § 63.3531, if applicable.

(4) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, records of the calculations specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings and thinners used each month, using Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.3531 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.3531(e)(3).

(ii) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.3531.

(iii) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.3541, and Equations 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.3541, as applicable.

(iv) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.3541.

(v) The calculation of each 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.3541.

(vi) The OSEL calculation, if applicable, using Equation 4 of § 63.3531.

(5) For the control efficiency/outlet concentration option, records of the measurements made by the CPMS used to demonstrate compliance. For any coating operation(s) for which you use this option, you do not have to keep the records specified in paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section.

(d) A record of the name and volume of each coating and thinner used during each compliance period.

(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating and thinner used during each compliance period.

(f) A record of the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period.

(g) A record of the density for each coating used during each compliance period; and, if you use either the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option, the density for each thinner used during each compliance period.

(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.3531 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.3531(e)(3) or otherwise managed in accordance with applicable Federal and State waste management regulations, you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The name and address of each TSDF or other applicable waste management location to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.3531, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility and the date of each shipment.

(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.3531.

(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.3531(e)(3) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF or other applicable waste management location each month and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. That must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.

(i) Before August 24, 2020, a record of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after August 24, 2020, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.3511(a)(5) through (8), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.

(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.3511(a)(5) through (8).

(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.3511(a)(5) through (8).

(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 or any applicable operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.3511(a)(5) through (8).

(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.3500(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(j) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Before August 24, 2020, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. On and after August 24, 2020, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction is not required.

(2) Before August 24, 2020, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. On and after August 24, 2020, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction are not required.

(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you.

(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.3544(a).

(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.3543 and 63.3544(b) through (e) including the records specified in paragraphs (j)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
