
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
####### § 63.3521 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## e.g.,

You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment, or for all the coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use that option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 and must use no thinner that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.3492 and 63.3493, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each one and two-piece draw and iron can body coating, sheetcoating, three-piece can body assembly coating, and end coating affected source. You must meet all the requirements of this section for the coating operation or group of coating operations using this option. Use the procedures in this section on each coating and thinner in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration (mixing or thinning). Do not include any coatings or thinners used on coating operations for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option. You do not need to redetermine the HAP content of coatings or thinners that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option, provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option. All required calculations and compliance demonstrations may be performed with either metric or English units.
