
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3531 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## e.g.,

You may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment, or for all of the coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment. You must use either the compliant material option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. If you use the alternative overall emission limit for a subcategory according to paragraph (i) of this section to demonstrate compliance, however, you must include all coating operations in all coating type segments in the subcategory to determine compliance with the overall limit. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.3492 and 63.3493, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each one and two-piece draw and iron can body coating, sheetcoating, three-piece can body assembly coating, and end coating affected source. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 for the coating operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings or thinners used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, or the control efficiency/outlet concentration option or coating operations in a different affected source in a different subcategory. Use the procedures in this section on each coating and thinner in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration (mixing or thinning). You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings or thinners that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate without add-on controls option. All required calculations and compliance demonstrations may be performed with either metric or English units.
