
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3532 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to § 63.3531(a) through (g), must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490. Alternatively, if you calculate an OSEL for all coating type segments within a subcategory according to § 63.3531(i), the organic HAP emission rate for the subcategory for each compliance period must be less than or equal to the calculated OSEL. You must use the calculated OSEL throughout each compliance period. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.3530 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.3531(a) through (g) on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 or the OSEL calculated according to § 63.3531(i), this is a deviation from the emission limitations for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.3510(c)(6) and 63.3511(a)(6).

(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.3511, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, you must submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490 determined according to § 63.3531(a) through (g), or using the OSEL calculated according to § 63.3531(i).

(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513.
