
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.3531 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.

(e)The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings and thinners used during each month minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate it using Equation 1 of this section.

(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the month using Equation 1A of this section.

(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the month using Equation 1B of this section.

(3) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF or other applicable waste management location in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You may include in the determination only waste materials that are generated by coating operations for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266 or otherwise managed in accordance with applicable Federal and State waste management regulations. The TSDF or other applicable waste management location may be either offsite or onsite. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater.

(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF, or other applicable waste management location, during the month, or the amount collected and stored during the month and designated for future transport to a TSDF or other applicable waste management location. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF or other applicable waste management location during a month if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that month or a previous month.

(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iv) You must document the methodology you used to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain as required in ยง 63.3512(h). To the extent that waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
