
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3542 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in § 63.3541, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490. Alternatively, if you calculate an OSEL for all coating type segments within a subcategory according to § 63.3531(i), the organic HAP emission rate for the subcategory for each compliance period must be less than or equal to the calculated OSEL. You must use the calculated OSEL throughout each compliance period. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.3540 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.3541 on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, that is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.3510(b)(6) and 63.3511(a)(7).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.3492 that applies to you as specified in Table 4 to this subpart.

(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 4 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.3510(b)(6) and 63.3511(a)(7).

(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 4 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation, unless you have other data indicating the actual efficiency of the emission capture system and add-on control device, and the use of these data has been approved by the Administrator. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.3541(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.3541.

(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.3547(b) for controlled coating operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.3510(b)(6) and 63.3511(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.3541(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.3541.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.3493. If you did not develop a work practice plan or you did not implement the plan or you did not keep the records required by § 63.3512(j)(8), that is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.3510(b)(6) and 63.3511(a)(7).

(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.3511, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limits in § 63.3490, the operating limits in § 63.3492, and the work practice standards in § 63.3493, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.3490, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.3492 and the work practice standards required by § 63.3493 during each compliance period.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Before August 24, 2020, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period you identify as a startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after August 24, 2020, deviations that occur due to malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are required to operate in accordance with § 63.3500(b). The Administrator will determine whether the deviations are violations according to the provisions in § 63.3500(b).

(i) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513.
