
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3541 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## Alternative calculation of overall subcategory emission limit.

(n)Alternatively, if your affected source applies coatings in more than one coating type segment within a subcategory, you may calculate an overall HAP emission limit for the subcategory using Equation 4 of § 63.3531. If you use this approach, you must limit organic HAP emissions to the atmosphere to the OSEL specified by Equation 4 of § 63.3531 during each 12-month compliance period. You must use the OSEL determined by Equation 4 of § 63.3531 throughout the 12-month compliance period and may not switch between compliance with individual coating type limits and an OSEL. If you follow this approach, you may not include coatings in different subcategories in determining your OSEL. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.3512 and 63.3513. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.3510, you must identify the subcategory for which you used a calculated OSEL and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate for the subcategory was less than or equal to the OSEL determined according to this section.
