
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3546 How do I establish the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits during the performance test?
######## Emission capture systems.

(g)For each capture device that is not part of a PTE that meets the criteria of § 63.3544(a), establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. The operating limit for a PTE is specified in Table 4 to this subpart.

(1) During the capture efficiency determination required by § 63.3540 and described in §§ 63.3543 and 63.3544, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate at a location upstream of the control device, or the duct static pressure at a location upstream of the primary fan in each duct of each capture device or upstream of the fan that is common to multiple capture devices at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.

(2) Calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each capture device or system of multiple capture devices. The average gas volumetric flow rate is the minimum operating limit for that specific capture device or system of multiple capture devices. The average duct static pressure is the maximum operating limit for that specific capture device or system of multiple capture devices.
