
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Control Efficiency/Outlet Concentration Option
####### ยง 63.3551 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?

(a) You may use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment, or for all of the coating operations within a subcategory or coating type segment. You must use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the control efficiency/outlet concentration option must meet the applicable levels of emission reduction in ยง 63.3490. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each one and two-piece draw and iron can body coating, sheetcoating, three-piece can body assembly coating, and end coating affected source. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings or thinners used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, or the emission rate with add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings or thinners that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
