
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Cans
###### Compliance Requirements for the Control Efficiency/Outlet Concentration Option
####### ยง 63.3557 What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
######## Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.

(c)If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor according to paragraph (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If you establish operating limits according to ยง 63.3556(b)(1) and (2), then you must install the gas temperature monitors both upstream and downstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitors must be in the gas stream at the inlet to and the outlet of the catalyst bed to measure the temperature difference across the bed.

(ii) If you establish operating limits according to ยง 63.3556(b)(3) and (4), then you must install a gas temperature monitor upstream of the catalyst bed. The temperature monitor must be in the gas stream at the inlet to the catalyst bed to measure the temperature.

(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (ii) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.

(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.

(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum accuracy of +/-1.2 degrees Celsius or +/-1 percent of the temperature value in degrees Celsius, whichever is larger.
