
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3910 What notifications must I submit?
######## Notification of compliance status.

(c)You must submit the notification of compliance status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.3940, § 63.3950, or § 63.3960 that applies to your affected source. The notification of compliance status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (11) of this section and in § 63.9(h).

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.3940, § 63.3950, or § 63.3960 that applies to your affected source.

(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.3891 that you used on each coating operation in the affected source during the initial compliance period.

(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.

(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) A description and statement of the cause of the deviation.

(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890, include all the calculations you used to determine the kg (lb) of organic HAP emitted per liter (gal) coating solids used. You do not need to submit information provided by the materials' suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data may include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example coating or material, or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.3941(a), (b), or (c). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.

(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP for one coating, for one thinner and/or other additive, and for one cleaning material.

(ii) Volume fraction of coating solids for one coating.

(iii) Density for one coating, one thinner and/or other additive, and one leaning material, except that if you use the compliant material option, only the example coating density is required.

(iv) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.3951.

(8) The calculation of kg (lb) of organic HAP emitted per liter (gal) coating solids used for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For the compliant material option, provide an example calculation of the organic HAP content for one coating, using Equation 2 of § 63.3941.

(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month; the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C, 2, and 3, respectively, of § 63.3951.

(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.3951; the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month using Equation 2 of § 63.3951; the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.3961 and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.3961 as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month using Equation 4 of § 63.3961; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate using Equation 5 of § 63.3961.

(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section, except that the requirements in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.3961(j).

(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.

(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.

(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.

(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.3893.

(10) If you are complying with a single emission limit representing the predominant activity under § 63.3890(c)(1), include the calculations and supporting information used to demonstrate that this emission limit represents the predominant activity as specified in § 63.3890(c)(1).

(11) If you are complying with a facility-specific emission limit under § 63.3890(c)(2), include the calculation of the facility-specific emission limit and any supporting information as specified in § 63.3890(c)(2).
