
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3920 What reports must I submit?
######## General requirements.

(3)The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (7) and (c)(1) of this section that is applicable to your affected source.

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31. Note that the information reported for each of the 6 months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.

(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.3891 that you used on each coating operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates for each option you used.

(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option (§ 63.3891(b) or (c)), the calculation results for each rolling 12-month organic HAP emission rate during the 6-month reporting period.

(vi) If you used the predominant activity alternative (§ 63.3890(c)(1)), include the annual determination of predominant activity if it was not included in the previous semi-annual compliance report.

(vii) If you used the facility-specific emission limit alternative (§ 63.3890(c)(2)), include the calculation of the facility-specific emission limit for each 12-month compliance period during the 6-month reporting period.
