
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.3930 What records must I keep?
######## Records for an alternative protocol.

(iii)Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.3965(e), if applicable.

(6) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.3966.

(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.3964 and 63.3966.

(ii) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.

(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.3967 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 1 to this subpart.

(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.3893 and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
