
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
####### § 63.3941 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?

You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limits in § 63.3890 and must use no thinner and/or other additive, or cleaning material that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.3892 and 63.3893, respectively. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each general use, high performance, magnet wire, rubber-to-metal, and extreme performance fluoropolymer coating operation unless you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.3890(c). If you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.3890(c), you must demonstrate that all coating operations included in the predominant activity determination or calculation of the facility-specific emission limit comply with that limit. You must meet all the requirements of this section. Use the procedures in this section on each coating, thinner and/or other additive, and cleaning material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the organic HAP content of coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials that are reclaimed on-site (or reclaimed off-site if you have documentation showing that you received back the exact same materials that were sent off-site) and reused in the coating operation for which you use the compliant material option, provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option.
