
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3960 By what date must I conduct performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
######## Existing affected sources.

(b)For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883. Except for magnet wire coating operations and solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.3961(j), you must conduct according to the schedule in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section initial and periodic performance tests of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.3964, 63.3965, and 63.3966 and establish the operating limits required by § 63.3892. For magnet wire coating operations, you may, with approval, conduct a performance test of a single magnet wire coating machine that represents identical or very similar magnet wire coating machines. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.3961(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.3883.

(i) You must conduct the initial performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.3892 no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883.

(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests and establish the operating limits required by § 63.3892 within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the first periodic performance test before July 8, 2020, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after July 8, 2018. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test. For any control device for which you are using the catalytic oxidizer control option at § 63.3967(b) and following the catalyst maintenance procedures in § 63.3967(b)(4), you are not required to conduct periodic testing control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph. For any control device for which instruments are used to continuously measure organic compound emissions, you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph.

(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.3893 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.3883.

(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.3961. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and volume of coatings solids used each month and then calculate an organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.3964, 63.3965, and 63.3966; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.3961(j); calculations according to § 63.3961 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.3968; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.3893.

(c) You are not required to conduct an initial performance test to determine capture efficiency or destruction efficiency of a capture system or control device if you receive approval to use the results of a performance test that has been previously conducted on that capture system or control device. Any such previous tests must meet the conditions described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section. You are still required to conduct a periodic performance test according to the applicable requirements of paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(1) The previous test must have been conducted using the methods and conditions specified in this subpart.

(2) Either no process or equipment changes have been made since the previous test was performed or the owner or operator must be able to demonstrate that the results of the performance test, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process or equipment changes.

(3) Either the required operating parameters were established in the previous test or sufficient data were collected in the previous test to establish the required operating parameters.
