
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3960 By what date must I conduct performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
######## New and reconstructed affected sources.

(a)For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.3961(j), you must conduct according to the schedule in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section initial and periodic performance tests of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.3964, 63.3965, and 63.3966 and establish the operating limits required by § 63.3892. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.3961(j), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883. For magnet wire coating operations, you may, with approval, conduct a performance test of one representative magnet wire coating machine for each group of identical or very similar magnet wire coating machines.

(i) You must conduct the initial performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.3892 no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883.

(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests and establish the operating limits required by § 63.3892 within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the first periodic performance test before July 8, 2023, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after July 8, 2018. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test. For any control device for which you are using the catalytic oxidizer control option at § 63.3967(b) and following the catalyst maintenance procedures in § 63.3967(b)(4), you are not required to conduct periodic testing control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph. For any control device for which instruments are used to continuously measure organic compound emissions, you are not required to conduct periodic control device performance testing as specified by this paragraph.

(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.3893 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.3883.

(3) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.3961. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.3883 and ends on the last day of the 12th month following the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next 12 months. You must determine the mass of organic HAP emissions and volume of coatings solids used each month and then calculate an organic HAP emission rate at the end of the initial compliance period. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.3964, 63.3965, and 63.3966; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.3961(j); calculations according to § 63.3961 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.3890; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.3968; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.3893.

(4) For the initial compliance demonstration, you do not need to comply with the operating limits for the emission capture system and add-on control device required by § 63.3892 until after you have completed the initial performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. Instead, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date and the performance test. You must begin complying with the operating limits established based on the initial performance tests specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for your affected source on the date you complete the performance tests. For magnet wire coating operations, you must begin complying with the operating limits for all identical or very similar magnet wire coating machines on the date you complete the performance test of a representative magnet wire coating machine. The requirements in this paragraph (a)(4) do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements in § 63.3961(j).
