
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.3961 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?

(a) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in §§ 63.3890, 63.3892, and 63.3893. You must conduct a separate initial compliance demonstration for each general use, magnet wire, rubber-to-metal, and extreme performance fluoropolymer coating operation, unless you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.3890(c). If you are demonstrating compliance with a predominant activity or facility-specific emission limit as provided in § 63.4490(c), you must demonstrate that all coating operations included in the predominant activity determination or calculation of the facility-specific emission limit comply with that limit. You must meet all the requirements of this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite (or reclaimed off-site if you have documentation showing that you received back the exact same materials that were sent off-site) and reused in the coatings operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option. If you use coatings, thinners and/or other additives, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed on-site, the amount of each used in a month may be reduced by the amount of each that is reclaimed. That is, the amount used may be calculated as the amount consumed to account for materials that are reclaimed.
