
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.3968 What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
######## Thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers.

(c)If you are using a thermal oxidizer or catalytic oxidizer as an add-on control device (including those used with concentrators or with carbon adsorbers to treat desorbed concentrate streams), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) For a thermal oxidizer, install a gas temperature monitor in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(2) For a catalytic oxidizer, install gas temperature monitors upstream and/or downstream of the catalyst bed as required in ยง 63.3967(b).

(3) For all thermal oxidizers and catalytic oxidizers, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(3)(i) through (v) of this section for each gas temperature monitoring device. For the purposes of this paragraph (c)(3), a thermocouple is part of the temperature sensor.

(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.

(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a measurement sensitivity of 5 degrees Fahrenheit or 1.0 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.

(iii) Before using the sensor for the first time or when relocating or replacing the sensor, perform a validation check by comparing the sensor output to a calibrated temperature measurement device or by comparing the sensor output to a simulated temperature.

(iv) Conduct an accuracy audit every quarter and after every deviation. Accuracy audit methods include comparisons of sensor output to redundant temperature sensors, to calibrated temperature measurement devices, or to temperature simulation devices.

(v) Conduct a visual inspection of each sensor every quarter if redundant temperature sensors are not used.
