
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.162 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source auto body repair and miscellaneous surface coating operations in Indian country.
######## e.g.,

(ii) The permittee shall not use volatile organic compound (VOC) containing materials (coatings, thinners, and clean-up solvents) in excess of the following amounts (solvent used in a cold cleaning solvent degreaser does not count toward compliance with this limit):

(A) 5,000 gallons per year based on a 12-month rolling total for facilities located in ozone attainment, unclassifiable or attainment/unclassifiable areas; and

(B) 900 gallons per year based on a 12-month rolling total for facilities located in ozone nonattainment areas.

(iii) Total annual cold cleaning solvent makeup shall not exceed 500 gallons in any 12-month period.

(iv) The total combined heat input capacity of all combustion units (such as space heaters or ovens) shall not exceed 10 MMBtu/hr. The combustion units shall only burn natural gas, propane, or butane.

(v) Each combustion unit rated at 2.0 MMBtu/hr or greater located in a serious, severe, or extreme ozone nonattainment area shall meet the following requirements:

(A) NOemissions shall not exceed 30 ppmat 3 percent oxygen or 0.011 lb/MMBtu based on a 15-minute average.

(B) CO emissions shall not exceed 400 ppmat 3 percent oxygen or 0.30 lb/MMBtu based on a 15-minute average.

(vi) The capacity of any volatile liquid storage tank shall not exceed 19,812 gallons.

(vii) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(xv) of this section, the VOC content of coatings, as applied, shall not exceed 8.34 pounds of VOC per gallon (999.4 grams of VOC per liter).

(viii) All painters must have certification that they have completed training in the proper spray application of surface coatings and the proper setup and maintenance of spray equipment. The minimum requirements for training and certification are described in paragraph (f) of this section. The spray application of surface coatings by persons who are not certified as having completed the training described in paragraph (f) of this section is prohibited. This condition does not apply to the students of an accredited surface coating training program who are under the direct supervision of an instructor who meets the requirements of this condition.

(ix) All spray-applied coating operations must be applied in a spray booth, preparation station, or mobile enclosure that meets the following standards:

(A) All spray booths, preparation stations, and mobile enclosures must be equipped with an exhaust filter certified by the manufacturer to achieve at least 98 percent capture of paint overspray. The procedure used to demonstrate filter efficiency must be consistent with the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Method 52.1, "Gravimetric and Dust-Spot Procedures for Testing Air-Cleaning Devices Used in General Ventilation for Removing Particulate Matter, June 4, 1992." The test coating for measuring filter efficiency shall be a high solids bake enamel delivered at a rate of at least 135 grams per minute from a conventional (non-HVLP) air-atomized spray gun operating at 40 pounds per square inch (psi) air pressure; the air flow rate across the filter shall be 150 feet per minute. Owners and operators may use published filter efficiency data provided by filter vendors to demonstrate compliance with this requirement and are not required to perform this measurement. The requirements of this paragraph do not apply to water wash spray booths that are operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(B) Spray booths and preparation stations used to refinish complete motor vehicles or mobile equipment must be fully enclosed with a full roof and four complete walls or complete side curtains, and must be ventilated at negative pressure so that air is drawn into any openings in the booth walls or preparation station curtains. However, if a spray booth is fully enclosed and has seals on all doors and other openings and has an automatic pressure balancing system, it may be operated at up to, but not more than, 0.05 inches water gauge positive pressure.

(C) Spray booths and preparation stations that are used to coat miscellaneous parts and products or vehicle subassemblies must have a full roof, at least three complete walls or complete side curtains, and must be ventilated so that air is drawn into the booth. The walls and roof of a booth may have openings, if needed, to allow for conveyors and parts to pass through the booth during the coating process.

(D) Mobile ventilated enclosures within the site that are used to perform spot repairs must enclose and, if necessary, seal against the surface around the area being coated such that paint overspray is retained within the enclosure and directed to a filter to capture paint overspray.

(E) The exhaust filters of spray booths shall be equipped with pressure gauges that indicate, in inches of water, the static pressure differential across the exhaust filters.

(F) Each spray booth located in a serious, severe, or extreme ozone nonattainment area that uses greater than 4 gallons per day of VOC-containing material shall install add-on controls (with greater than or equal to 90 percent collection efficiency and greater than or equal to 95 percent destruction efficiency) or use material with less than 5 percent VOC by weight or low VOC materials that result in an equivalent emission reduction.

(x) Except for serious, severe, and extreme ozone nonattainment areas, all spray-applied coating operations must be applied with a high volume, low pressure (HVLP) spray gun, electrostatic application, airless spray gun, or air-assisted airless spray gun. An equivalent spray technology may be used if it that has been demonstrated by the spray gun manufacturer to achieve a transfer efficiency comparable to that of an HVLP spray gun and for which the spray gun manufacturer has obtained written approval from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). The requirements of this condition do not apply to spray guns with a cup capacity less than 3.0 fluid ounces (89 cc).

(xi) In serious, severe, and extreme ozone nonattainment areas, all spray-applied coating operations must be applied with an HVLP spray gun, low volume low pressure (LVLP) spray gun, or air brush spray operation. An equivalent spray technology may be used if it has been demonstrated by the spray gun manufacturer to achieve a transfer efficiency comparable to that of an HVLP spray gun and for which the spray gun manufacturer has obtained written approval from the EPA.

(xii) All paint spray gun cleaning must be done so that an atomized mist or spray of gun cleaning solvent and paint residue is not created outside of a container that collects used gun cleaning solvent. Spray gun cleaning may be done with, for example, hand cleaning of parts of the disassembled gun in a container of solvent, by flushing solvent through the gun without atomizing the solvent and paint residue, or by using a fully enclosed spray gun washer. A combination of non-atomizing methods may also be used.
