
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Large Appliances
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.4081 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a facility that applies coatings to large appliance parts or products, and is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP), except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year. You are not subject to this subpart if your large appliance surface coating facility is located at, or is part of, an area source of HAP emissions. An area source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that is not a major source.

(b) The large appliance surface coating source category includes any facility engaged in the surface coating of a large appliance part or product. Large appliance parts and products include but are not limited to cooking equipment; refrigerators, freezers, and refrigerated cabinets and cases; laundry equipment; dishwashers, trash compactors, and water heaters; and heating, ventilation, and air-conditioning (HVAC) units, air-conditioning (except motor vehicle) units, air-conditioning and heating combination units, comfort furnaces, and electric heat pumps. Specifically excluded are heat transfer coils and large commercial and industrial chillers.

(c) The large appliance surface coating activities and equipment to which this subpart applies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section:

(1) Surface preparation of large appliance parts and products;

(2) Preparation of a coating for application (e.g., mixing in thinners and other components);

(3) Application of a coating to large appliance parts and products using, for example, spray guns or dip tanks;

(4) Application of porcelain enamel, powder coating, and asphalt interior soundproofing coating;

(5) Flash-off, drying, or curing following the coating application operation;

(6) Cleaning of equipment used in coating operations (e.g., application equipment, hangers, racks);

(7) Storage of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials;

(8) Conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials from storage areas to mixing areas or coating application areas, either manually (e.g., in buckets) or by automated means (e.g., transfer through pipes using pumps); and

(9) Handling and conveying of waste materials generated by coating operations.

(d) This subpart does not apply to surface coating that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The surface coating of large appliance parts such as metal or plastic handles, hinges, or fasteners that have a wider use beyond large appliances is not subject to this subpart.

(2) The surface coating of large appliances conducted for the purpose of repairing or maintaining large appliances used by a facility and not for commerce is not subject to this subpart unless organic HAP emissions from the surface coating itself are as high as the rates specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) The surface coating of heat transfer coils or large commercial and industrial chillers.

(4) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to research or laboratory facilities; janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations; hobby shops operated for noncommercial purposes or coating applications using hand-held non-refillable aerosol containers.

(5) The provisions of this subpart do not apply to processes involving metal plating or phosphating of a substrate.

(e) If you own or operate an affected source that is subject to this subpart and at the same affected source you also perform surface coating subject to any other subparts in this part, you may choose for the affected source to comply with only one subpart. In order to choose this alternative, the total mass of organic HAP emissions from all surface coating operations in the affected source must be less than or equal to the total mass of organic HAP emissions that would result if it complied separately with all applicable subparts. You must make this comparison for the initial compliance period and report it in the Notification of Compliance Status as required in ยง 63.4110(b)(10) and in the Notification of Compliance Status required by the other subparts. If you choose this alternative, your demonstration of compliance with the other subpart constitutes compliance with this subpart.
