
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Large Appliances
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4110 What notifications must I submit?

(a) You must submit the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b) for an existing affected source no later than July 23, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart. For a new or reconstructed affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 120 days after initial startup, November 20, 2002, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(2) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4140, § 63.4150, or § 63.4160 that applies to your affected source.

(b) The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section and the applicable information specified in § 63.9(h).

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.4140, § 63.4150, or § 63.4160 that applies to your affected source.

(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4091 that you used on each coating operation in the affected source during the initial compliance period.

(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.

(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) A description of and statement of the cause of the deviation.

(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, include all the calculations you used to determine the kg organic HAP emitted per liter of coating solids used. You do not need to submit information provided by the materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.

(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data can include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example coating or material or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.4141(a), (b), or (c). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.

(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP for one coating, for one thinner, and for one cleaning material.

(ii) Volume fraction of coating solids for one coating.

(iii) Density for one coating, one thinner, and one cleaning material, except that if you use the compliant material option, only the example coating density is required.

(iv) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4151.

(8) The determination of kg organic HAP emitted per liter of coating solids used for the compliance option(s) you use, as specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For the compliant material option, provide an example determination of the organic HAP content for one coating, according to § 63.4141(d).

(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions; the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, and 3, respectively, of § 63.4151.

(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4151; the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used, using Equation 2 of § 63.4151; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1, 1A through 1C, 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4161, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 4 of § 63.4161.

(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (v) of this section, except that the requirements in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (iii) of this section do not apply to solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h).

(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.

(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.

(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.

(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4093.

(v) Before September 12, 2019, a statement of whether or not you developed the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.4100(d). This statement is not required on and after September 12, 2019.

(10) If you have chosen for your affected source to comply with the requirements of another subpart in lieu of the requirements of this subpart, as allowed in § 63.4081(d), your Notification of Compliance Status must include a statement certifying your intent, as well as documentation and supporting materials showing that, during the initial compliance period, your affected source's total organic HAP emissions were equal to or less than the organic HAP emissions that would have resulted from complying separately with each applicable subpart.
