
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Large Appliances
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4161 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?

You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all of the coating operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled coating operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any coating operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance, the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090 and the work practice standards required in § 63.4093; and each controlled coating operation must meet the operating limits required in § 63.4092. You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials used on coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coatings, thinners, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.

(a) Except as provided in § 63.4160(b)(4) and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to the requirements of § 63.4161(h), you must establish and demonstrate continuous compliance during the initial compliance period with the operating limits required by § 63.4092, using the procedures specified in §§ 63.4167 and 63.4168.

(b) You must develop, implement, and document your implementation of the work practice plan required by § 63.4093 during the initial compliance period as specified in § 63.4130.

(c) You must follow the procedures in paragraphs (d) through (l) of this section to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090.
