
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Large Appliances
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4160 By what date must I conduct initial performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
######## Existing affected sources.

(a)For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS you use to demonstrate compliance must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083.

(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4093 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4083.

(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4161. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4083 and ends on the last day of the first full month after the compliance date. If the compliance date occurs on any day other than the first day of a month, then the initial compliance period extends through the end of that month plus the next month. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4161(h); calculations according to § 63.4161 and supporting documentation showing that, during the initial compliance period, the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the emission limit in § 63.4090(a); the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4168; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4093.
