
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.162 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source auto body repair and miscellaneous surface coating operations in Indian country.
######## 5

() Simultaneously for CO and NOwhenever either one needs to be tested.

(B) Compliance with each limit shall be demonstrated by averaging the results of at least three test runs of at least 1 hour duration each, unless the permittee can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the reviewing authority that the result of one of the test runs should be discarded. The test results the permittee submits must contain at least two test runs.

(ii) The permitted source shall demonstrate compliance with the paint overspray capture efficiency requirements of paragraph (d)(2)(ix)(A) of this section using published filter efficiency data provided by filter vendors, as described in paragraph (d)(2)(ix)(A) of this section.

(iii) The permitted source shall install, operate, and maintain an exhaust filter pressure gauge on each spray booth and monitor (in inches of water) the static pressure differential across the exhaust filter at least once per calendar month while the equipment is operating. As necessary, the exhaust filter shall be replaced according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(iv) The exterior of each spray booth, preparation station, or mobile enclosure shall be inspected at least once per calendar month for evidence of overspray. If evidence of overspray is apparent, the permittee shall take corrective action to eliminate overspray from the exterior of each spray booth, preparation station, or mobile enclosure.

(v) Prior to each use, each cold solvent cleaning degreaser shall be inspected for liquid leaks, visible tears, or cracks.
