
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Large Appliances
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4163 How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period determined according to the procedures in § 63.4161 must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4160 is a compliance period.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4092 that applies to you as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and you must conduct periodic performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g).

(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4161, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation. You must not include those materials in the calculation of organic HAP emissions reductions in Equation 1 of § 63.4161.

(3) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4161(h), you must conduct according to the procedures in §§ 63.4164, 63.4165, and 63.4166 periodic performance tests of each capture system and add-on control device used to demonstrate compliance, and you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092. You must conduct the first periodic performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4092 before March 15, 2022, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after March 15, 2017. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.

(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4168(b). If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4161, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation. You must not include those materials in the calculation of organic HAP emissions reductions in Equation 1 of § 63.4161.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4093. If you did not develop a work practice plan, did not implement the plan, or did not keep the records required by § 63.4130(k)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4110(b)(6) and 63.4120(g).

(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4120, you must submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4090, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4092 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4093 during each compliance period.

(g) [Reseved]

(h) Before September 12, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 12, 2019, as specified in § 63.4100(b), at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions, and determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4130 and 63.4131.
