
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.162 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source auto body repair and miscellaneous surface coating operations in Indian country.
######## not

(C) For each permitted source located in a serious, severe, or extreme ozone nonattainment areacomplying with the control requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(ix)(F) of this section (add-on controls or low VOC-containing material), the combined daily gallons of VOC-containing material used in all spray booths.

(iv) The permittee shall keep records of the VOC content (g/L or lb/gal) for each coating material used onsite.

(v) For each spray booth, preparation station, and mobile enclosure, the permittee shall maintain records of:

(A) The filter efficiency of the exhaust material;

(B) The monthly exhaust filter pressure gauge readings specified in ยง 49.162(d)(3)(iii);

(C) The date when each exhaust filter is replaced;

(D) Any corrective actions taken to reduce overspray; and

(E) The results of any corrective actions taken.

(vi) The permittee shall maintain documentation from the spray gun manufacturer that each spray gun meets the requirements of paragraphs (d)(2)(x) and (xi) of this section, as applicable. For a spray gray that uses equivalent technology, documentation that the spray gun has been determined by the EPA to achieve a transfer efficiency equivalent to that of an HVLP spray gun is required.

(vii) For each cold cleaning solvent degreaser, the permittee shall:

(A) Maintain records of owner's manuals, or if not available, written maintenance and operating procedures; and

(B) Maintain a log of any actions taken to repair leaks, tears or cracks and the results of the corrective action taken.

(viii) The permittee shall maintain records of the MSDS for each solvent used in a solvent degreaser.

(ix) The permittee shall maintain records of the gallons of cold cleaning solvent makeup used each calendar month and a total of the number of gallons of cold cleaning solvent makeup used in each 12-month period.

(x) The results of each performance test conducted pursuant to paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section shall be recorded. At a minimum, the permittee shall maintain records of:

(A) The date of each test;

(B) Each test plan;

(C) Any documentation required to approve an alternate test method;

(D) The results of each test;

(E) The name of the company or entity conducting the analysis; and

(F) Test conditions.
