
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.4282 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, and existing affected source within each of the three subcategories listed in ยง 63.4281(a).

(b) The affected source for the web coating and printing subcategory is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section that are used in fabric and other textiles web coating and printing operations. The regulated materials for the web coating and printing subcategory are the coating, printing, thinning and cleaning materials used in the affected source.

(1) All web coating and printing equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate on the coating or printing line to prepare it for coating or printing material application, to apply coating or printing materials to a substrate and to dry or cure the coating or printing materials, or equipment used to clean web coating/printing operation equipment;

(2) All containers used for storage and vessels used for mixing coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials;

(3) All equipment and containers used for conveying coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials;

(4) All containers used for storage, and all equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating or printing operation; and

(5) All equipment, structures, and/or devices(s) used to convey, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals generated by a coating or printing operation.

(c) The affected source for the slashing subcategory is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section that are used in slashing operations. The regulated materials for the slashing subcategory are the slashing materials used in the affected source.

(1) All slashing equipment used to apply and dry size on warp yarn;

(2) All containers used for storage and vessels used for mixing slashing materials;

(3) All equipment and containers used for conveying slashing materials;

(4) All containers used for storage and all equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a slashing operation; and

(5) All equipment, structures, and/or devices(s) used to convey, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals generated by a slashing operation.

(d) The affected source for the dyeing and finishing subcategory is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section that are used in dyeing and finishing operations. The regulated materials for the dyeing and finishing subcategory are the dyeing and finishing materials used in the affected source.

(1) All dyeing and finishing equipment used to apply dyeing or finishing materials, to fix dyeing materials to the substrate, to rinse the textile substrate, or to dry or cure the dyeing or finishing materials;

(2) All containers used for storage and vessels used for mixing dyeing or finishing materials;

(3) All equipment and containers used for conveying dyeing or finishing materials;

(4) All containers used for storage, and all equipment and containers used for conveying, waste materials generated by a dyeing or finishing operation; and

(5) All equipment, structures, and/or devices(s) used to convey, treat, or dispose of wastewater streams or residuals generated by a dyeing or finishing operation.

(e) An affected source is a new source if it meets the criteria in paragraph (e)(1) of this section and the criteria in either paragraph (e)(2) or (3) of this section.

(1) You commenced the construction of the source after July 11, 2002.

(2) The web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation is performed at a source where no web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation was previously performed.

(3) The web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation is performed in a subcategory in which no web coating and printing, slashing, or dyeing and finishing operation was previously performed.

(f) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2.

(g) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
