
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Emission Limitations
####### ยง 63.4291 What are my options for meeting the emission limits?
######## Dyeing and finishing.

(c)You may apply any one of the compliance options in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section to an individual dyeing/finishing operation, or to multiple dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source as a group, or to the entire affected source in the dyeing and finishing subcategory. You may use different compliance options for different dyeing/finishing operations or at different times on the same dyeing/finishing operation. However, you may not use different compliance options at the same time on the same dyeing/finishing operation. If you switch between compliance options for any dyeing/finishing operation or group of operations, you must document this switch as required by ยง 63.4312(c), and you must report it in the next semiannual compliance report required in ยง 63.4311. If you choose to apply the compliance option in paragraph (c)(4) to your dyeing/finishing operations, it must be applied to the entire affected source in the dyeing and finishing subcategory. You may not apply any of the compliance options in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section to any dyeing/finishing operation in the affected source if you use the equivalent emission rate limit in paragraph (c)(4) for your dyeing/finishing affected source.
