
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4310 What notifications must I submit?
######## Notification of Compliance Status.

(c)You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320, § 63.4330, § 63.4340, or § 63.4350 that applies to your affected source. The Notification of Compliance Status must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section and in § 63.9(h).

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320, § 63.4330, § 63.4340, or § 63.4350 that applies to your affected source.

(4) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in § 63.4291 that you used during the initial compliance period on each web coating/printing operation in each web coating/printing affected source, on each slashing operation in each slashing affected source, and on each dyeing/finishing operation in each dyeing/finishing affected source.

(5) Statement of whether or not the affected source achieved the emission limitations for the initial compliance period.

(6) If you had a deviation, include the information in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) A description, and statement of the cause of, the deviation.

(ii) If you failed to meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, include all the calculations you used to determine the kilogram (kg) organic HAP emitted per kg of solids applied in coating and printing material or the weight percent organic HAP compounds in slashing, dyeing or finishing material to demonstrate your failure to meet the applicable emission limit. You do not need to submit information provided by the materials suppliers or manufacturers or test reports.

(7) For each of the data items listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section that is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, include an example of how you determined the value, including calculations and supporting data. Supporting data can include a copy of the information provided by the supplier or manufacturer of the example regulated material or a summary of the results of testing conducted according to § 63.4321(e)(1) or (2). You do not need to submit copies of any test reports.

(i) Mass fraction of organic HAP and mass fraction of solids for one coating or printing formulation including thinning materials, mass fraction of organic HAP for one cleaning material and mass fraction of organic HAP for all of the regulated materials as purchased used in one slashing operation or dyeing/ finishing operation.

(ii) Mass of coating or printing formulation used in web coating/printing operation or of dyeing and finishing materials used in the dyeing/finishing operation during the compliance period.

(iii) The amount of waste materials and the mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 1 or 4 of § 63.4331.

(iv) The mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period and the mass of organic HAP in wastewater discharged to a POTW or receiving onsite secondary treatment for which you are claiming an allowance in Equation 4 of § 63.4331.

(8) The calculation of kg organic HAP per kg of coating and printing solids applied and of kg organic HAP per kg of dyeing and finishing material as purchased for the compliance option(s) you use, as specified in paragraphs (c)(8)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) For the compliant material option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(1) for web coating/printing operations, provide an example calculation of the organic HAP content for one coating and one printing material, as appropriate, using Equation 1 of § 63.4321.

(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(2) for web coating/printing operations, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions; the calculation of the total mass of coating and printing solids applied; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equations 1, 2, and 3, respectively, of § 63.4331.

(iii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(c)(2) for dyeing/finishing operations, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions; the calculation of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate, using Equations 4, 5, and 6, respectively, of § 63.4331.

(iv) For the emission rate with add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(3) for web coating/printing operations, provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls using Equation 1 of § 63.4331, and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate using Equation 4 of § 63.4341.

(v) For the emission rate with add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(c)(3) for dyeing/finishing operations, provide the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls using Equation 4 of § 63.4331, and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate using Equation 8 of § 63.4341.

(vi) For the organic HAP overall control efficiency option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(4), provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls using Equation 1 of § 63.4331 and the calculation of the organic HAP overall control efficiency using Equation 1 of § 63.4351.

(vii) For the equivalent emission rate option as specified in § 63.4291(c)(4), provide the calculation of the fraction of organic HAP applied in affected processes that is discharged to wastewater according to § 63.4331(d), the calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source using Equation 4 of § 63.4331, and documentation that organic HAP containing wastewater is either discharged to a POTW or treated onsite in a treatment system that includes at least secondary treatment.

(9) For the emission rate with add-on controls option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(3) and (c)(3), the organic HAP overall control efficiency option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(4), and the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option as specified in § 63.4291(a)(5), for each controlled web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5) or § 63.4351(d)(5), you must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(9)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) For each emission capture system, a summary of the data and copies of the calculations supporting the determination that the emission capture system is a permanent total enclosure (PTE) or a measurement of the emission capture system efficiency. If you are demonstrating compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, the emission capture system must be a PTE. Include a description of the protocol followed for measuring capture efficiency, summaries of any capture efficiency tests conducted, and any calculations supporting the capture efficiency determination. If you use the data quality objective (DQO) or lower confidence limit (LCL) approach, you must also include the statistical calculations to show you meet the DQO or LCL criteria in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You do not need to submit complete test reports.

(ii) A summary of the results of each add-on control device performance test. You do not need to submit complete test reports.

(iii) A list of each emission capture system's and add-on control device's operating limits and a summary of the data used to calculate those limits.

(iv) A statement of whether or not you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.

(v) Before September 12, 2019, a statement of whether or not you developed the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required by § 63.4300(c). This statement is not required on and after September 12, 2019.
