
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Emission Limitations
####### ยง 63.4293 What work practice standards must I meet?

(a) For any slashing operation, you are not required to meet any work practice standards. For any web coating/printing operation(s) or dyeing/finishing operation(s) on which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards. For any dyeing/finishing affected source on which you use the equivalent emission rate option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.

(b) If you use either the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for a web coating/printing operation; or you use the emission rate with add-on controls option for a dyeing/finishing operation; you must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of regulated materials used in, and waste materials generated by, the coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operations for which you use this option; or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.

(1) All organic-HAP-containing regulated materials and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.

(2) Spills of organic-HAP-containing regulated materials, and waste materials must be minimized.

(3) Organic-HAP-containing regulated materials and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.

(4) Mixing vessels which contain organic-HAP-containing regulated materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.

(5) Emissions of organic HAP must be minimized during cleaning of web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.

(c) As provided in ยง 63.6(g), you may request approval from the Administrator to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.
