
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.4311 What reports must I submit?
######## General requirements.

(3)The semiannual compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4) through (8) and (c)(1) of this section that is applicable to your affected source. If your affected source is a slashing operation(s), you are only required to report the information in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section and the information in paragraph (a)(4) or (a)(5) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31.

(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in ยง 63.4291 that you used on each web coating/printing and dyeing/finishing operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning and ending dates you used each option.

(v) If you used the emission rate without add-on controls, the emission rate with add-on controls, or the organic HAP overall control efficiency compliance option for web coating/printing operations (ยง 63.4291(a)(2), (3), or (4)), or the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option for dyeing/finishing operations (ยง 63.4291(c)(2) or (c)(3)), the calculation results for each compliance period ending each month during the 6-month reporting period.
