
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.4311 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: Equivalent Emission Rate Option.

(8)If you use the equivalent emission rate option, and there was a deviation from the operating scenarios, as defined in ยง 63.4371, used to demonstrate initial compliance, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Before September 12, 2019, the beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the deviation occurred. On and after September 12, 2019, the beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the deviation occurred, the number of deviations during the compliance period, and, for each deviation, the date, time, and duration of the deviation; a list of the affected sources or equipment; and a statement of the cause of the deviation (including an unknown cause, if applicable).

(ii) If the deviation consisted of failure to treat the organic HAP containing wastewater by a biological treatment process, an explanation of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, and the determination of the mass of organic HAP that was discharged in the wastewater that was not treated by a biological treatment process.

(iii) The determination of the fraction of organic HAP applied in your dyeing/finishing affected source that is discharged to the wastewater according to ยง 63.4331(d).

(iv) The calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source using Equation 4 of ยง 63.4331.
