
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4311 What reports must I submit?
######## e.g.,

(C) If you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, the calculations used to determine the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must submit the calculations that apply to you, including Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331; Equations 1, 1A, 1B, 1C, 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341; and Equation 1 of § 63.4351. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (test reports).

(D) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.

(E) A brief description of the CPMS.

(F) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(G) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(H) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(I) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in table 2 to this subpart, date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(J) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in table 2 to this subpart and each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(K) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period into those that were due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(L) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(M) A description of any changes in the CPMS, web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.

(N) For each deviation from the work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period duration of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.

(O) A statement of the cause of each deviation.

(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (M), (O), and (P) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or the applicable operating limit(s) in Table 2 to this subpart (including any periods when emissions bypassed the add-on control device and were diverted to the atmosphere), and the information in paragraph (a)(7)(ii)(N) of this section if there was a deviation from the applicable work practice standards in § 63.4293(b).

(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
