
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
####### § 63.4321 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) You may use the compliant material option for any individual web coating/printing operation, for any group of web coating/printing operations in the affected source, or for all the web coating/printing operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option, the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for any web coating/printing operation(s) in the affected source for which you do not use this option. For a web coating/printing affected source to demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the web coating/printing operation or group of web coating/printing operations must apply no coating or printing material with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart and must apply only thinning or cleaning material that contains no organic HAP, as defined in § 63.4371.

(b) You must use the compliant material option for each slashing affected source, as required in Table 1 to this subpart. For a slashing affected source to demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the slashing operation or group of slashing operations must apply only slashing material with no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371.

(c) You may use the compliant material option for any individual dyeing/finishing operation, for any group of dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source, or for all the dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source for which you do not use this option. You may not use the compliant material option for any dyeing/finishing operation in a dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option. For a dyeing/finishing affected source to demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, the dyeing/finishing operation or group of dyeing/finishing operations must apply no dyeing or finishing material with a mass fraction of organic HAP that exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.

(d) Any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293, respectively.

(e) To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations using the compliant material option, you must meet all the requirements of this section for any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation using this option. Use the applicable procedures in this section on each regulated material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the organic HAP content of regulated materials that are reclaimed onsite and reused in the web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation for which you use the compliant material option, provided these regulated materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option.
