
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4312 What records must I keep?

You must collect and keep a record of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.

(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.

(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, such as manufacturer's formulation data or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP for coating, printing, slashing, dyeing, finishing, thinning, and cleaning materials; and the mass fraction of solids for coating and printing materials. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP of coating materials or the mass fraction of solids of coating materials, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.

(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for web coating/printing operations and the records specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for dyeing/finishing operations.

(1) A record of the web coating/printing operations on which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates) you used each option. For each month, a record of all required calculations for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content, as purchased, for each coating and printing material applied, using Equation 1 of § 63.4321.

(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coating, printing, thinning and cleaning materials applied each compliance period using Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of the solids contained in all coating and printing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 2 of § 63.4331; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 3 of § 63.4331.

(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls for the coating, printing, thinning and cleaning materials applied each compliance period using Equations 1, 1A, and 1B of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of the solids contained in all coating and printing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 2 of § 63.4331; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 1, 1A, 1B, and 1C of § 63.4341 and Equations 2, 3, 3A, and 3B of § 63.4341, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 4 of § 63.4341.

(iv) For the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, the records specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(2) A record of the dyeing/finishing operations on which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates) you used each option. For each month, a record of all required calculations for the compliance option(s) you used, as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) For the compliant material option, a purchase record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each dyeing, and finishing material applied, according to § 63.4321(e)(1)(iv).

(ii) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, the calculation for the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equations 4 and 4A of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculations used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(ii) and the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 5 of § 63.4331; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 6 of § 63.4331.

(iii) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions before add-on controls for the dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equations 4 and 4A of § 63.4331 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(ii) and the determination of the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge according to § 63.4331(b)(3)(iii); the calculation of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied each compliance period using Equation 5 of § 63.4331; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices using Equations 5, 5A, and 5B of § 63.4341 and Equations 6, 7, and 7A of § 63.4341, as applicable; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period using Equation 8 of § 63.4341.

(iv) For the equivalent emission rate option, a record that your dyeing/finishing affected source operated within the operating scenarios used to demonstrate initial compliance, documentation that affected wastewater was either discharged to a POTW or to onsite secondary treatment, and the calculation of the total organic HAP emissions from your dyeing/finishing affected source for each compliance period using Equation 4 of § 63.4331.

(d) A record of the name and mass of each regulated material applied in the web coating and printing subcategory and the dyeing and finishing subcategory during each compliance period. If you are using the compliant material option for all regulated materials at the source, you may maintain purchase records for each material used rather than a record of the mass used.

(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each regulated material applied during each compliance period.

(f) A record of the mass fraction of coating and printing solids for each coating and printing material applied during each compliance period.

(g) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 or 4 of § 63.4331 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to, or designated for shipment to, a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) according to § 63.4331(a)(4)(iii) or (b)(3)(ii), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you used an allowance in Equation 1 or 4 of § 63.4331, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility, and the date of each shipment.

(2) Identification of the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the compliance period(s) in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 or 4, respectively, of § 63.4331.

(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4331(a)(3)(iii) or (b)(4)(ii) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each compliance period; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.

(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 4 of § 63.4331 for organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge according to § 63.4331(c), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Documentation that the wastewater was either discharged to a POTW or onsite secondary wastewater treatment.

(2) Calculation of the allowance, WW, using the fraction of organic HAP applied in affected processes that is discharged to the wastewater determined from the most recent performance test and the mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, A, calculated in Equation 4 of § 63.4331.

(i) Before September 12, 2019, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after September 12, 2019, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.

(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8).

(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8).

(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart or any applicable operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4311(a)(5) through (8). If you use the equivalent emission rate option to comply with this subpart, a record of the applicable information specified in § 63.4311(a)(8)(ii) through (iv) satisfies the recordkeeping requirement in this paragraph (i)(3).

(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4300(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(j) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Before September 12, 2019, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The record in this paragraph (j)(1) is not required on and after September 12, 2019.

(2) Before September 12, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. The records in this paragraph (j)(2) are not required on and after September 12, 2019.

(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you.

(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4361(a).

(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4360 and 63.4361(b) through (e) including the records specified in paragraphs (j)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
