
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4312 What records must I keep?
######## Records for an alternative protocol.

(iii)Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4361(e), if applicable.

(6) The records specified in paragraphs (j)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination or oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration determination as specified in § 63.4362.

(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4360 and 63.4362.

(ii) Records of the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.

(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4363 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(8) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.
