
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.162 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source auto body repair and miscellaneous surface coating operations in Indian country.
######## Standards for batch-loaded cold cleaner degreasers.

(e)(1) Each degreaser shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and shall be used with tightly fitting covers that are free of cracks, holes, or other defects. In addition, the cover shall be closed at all times when the degreaser contains solvent, except during parts entry and removal or performing maintenance or monitoring that requires the removal of the cover.

(2) The solvent container shall be free of all liquid leaks. Auxiliary degreaser equipment, such as pumps, water separators, steam traps, or distillation units, shall not have any liquid leaks, visible tears, or cracks. In addition, any liquid leak, visible tear, or crack detected pursuant to the provisions of this condition shall be repaired within 48 hours, or the degreaser shall be drained of all solvent and shut down until replaced or repaired.

(3) All waste solvents shall be stored in properly identified and sealed containers. All associated pressure relief devices shall not allow liquid solvents to drain out.

(4) Solvent flow cleaning shall be done within the freeboard area, and shall be done by a liquid stream rather than a fine, atomized, or shower-type spray. Solvent flow shall be directed downward to avoid turbulence at the air-solvent interface and to prevent liquid solvent from splashing outside of the degreaser.

(5) Degreasing of porous or absorbent materials, such as cloth, leather, wood, or rope is prohibited.

(6) Workspace and ventilation fans shall not be positioned in such a way as to direct airflow near the degreaser openings.

(7) Spills during solvent transfer shall be wiped up immediately and the used wipe rags shall be stored in closed containers that are handled in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(8) Solvent levels shall not exceed the fill line.

(9) The parts to be cleaned shall be racked in a manner that will minimize the drag-out losses.

(10) The freeboard ratio shall be 0.75 or greater. Parts shall be drained immediately after the cleaning until at least 15 seconds have elapsed; or dripping of solvent ceases; or the parts become visibly dry. Parts with blind holes or cavities shall be tipped or rotated before being removed from a degreaser, such that the solvents in the blind holes or cavities are drained in accordance with the above requirements.

(11) Draining or filling of solvent containers shall be performed beneath the liquid solvent surface.

(12) Solvent agitation, where necessary, shall be carried out only by pump recirculation, ultrasonics, a mixer, or by air agitation. Air agitation shall be accomplished under the following conditions:

(i) The air agitation unit shall be equipped with a gauge and a device that limits air pressure into the degreaser to less than two pounds per square inch gauge;

(ii) The cover must remain closed while the air agitation system is in operation; and

(iii) Pump circulation shall be performed without causing splashing.

(13) Airless/Air-tight Cleaning System Requirements-In lieu of meeting the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (12) of this section, the permittee may use an airless/air-tight batch cleaning system provided that all of the following applicable requirements are met:

(i) The equipment is operated in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications and operated with a door or other pressure sealing apparatus that is in place during all cleaning and drying cycles.

(ii) All waste solvents are stored in properly identified and sealed containers.

(iii) All associated pressure relief devices shall not allow liquid solvents to drain out.

(iv) Spills during solvent transfer shall be wiped up immediately, and the used wipe rags shall be stored in closed containers that are handled in accordance with paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(v) The equipment is maintained in a vapor-tight, leak-free condition and any leak is a violation.
