
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
####### § 63.4322 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must apply no coating or printing material for which the organic HAP content determined using Equation 1 of § 63.4321, exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must apply only slashing material that contains no organic HAP as defined in § 63.4371. For each compliance period, to demonstrate continuous compliance, you must apply no dyeing or finishing material for which the mass fraction of organic HAP, determined according to the requirements of § 63.4321(e)(1)(iv), exceeds the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. For each compliance period, you must apply only thinning or cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371) in a coating/printing affected source. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4320 is a compliance period.

(b) If you choose to comply with the emission limitations by using the compliant material option, the application of any regulated material that does not meet the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is a deviation from the emission limitations that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(5).

(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4311, you must identify any web coating/printing operation, slashing operation, or dyeing/finishing operation for which you used the compliant material option. If there were no deviations from the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, submit a statement that, as appropriate, the web coating/printing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you applied no coating or printing material for which the organic HAP content exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and you applied only thinning and cleaning materials that contained no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371) in a web coating/printing affected source; the slashing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you applied only slashing materials with no organic HAP (as defined in § 63.4371) in a slashing affected source; and the dyeing/finishing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because you applied no dyeing or finishing material for which the mass fraction of organic HAP exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.

(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.
