
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4331 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.

(4)The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions using Equation 1 of this section:

(i) Calculate the kg organic HAP in the coating and printing materials applied during the compliance period using Equation 1A of this section:

(ii) Calculate the kg of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied during the compliance period using Equation 1B of this section:

(iii) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (a)(4)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) You may include in the determination only waste materials that are generated by web coating/printing operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility that is regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include organic HAP contained in wastewater.

(B) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the compliance period or the amount collected and stored during the compliance period designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a compliance period if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that compliance period or a previous compliance period.

(C) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (a)(4)(iii)(B) of this section.

(D) You must document the methodology you use to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in ยง 63.4312(g). To the extent that waste manifests include this, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
