
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4331 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## Compliance demonstration.

(7)The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the web coating/printing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than, or equal to, the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.

(b) For dyeing and finishing operations, you may use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any individual dyeing/finishing operation, for any group of dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source, or for dyeing/finishing operations as a group in the affected source. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. You may not use the emission rate without add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in a dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the emission rate without add-on controls option, the dyeing/finishing operation or group of operations must meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart but is not required to meet the operating limits or work practice standards in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293, respectively. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for the dyeing/finishing operation(s). When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any dyeing and finishing materials applied on dyeing/finishing operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate with add-on controls option. Use the procedures in this section on each regulated material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. Water added in mixing at the affected source is not a regulated material and should not be included in the determination of the total mass of dyeing and finishing materials applied during the compliance period, using Equation 5 of this section.
