
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4331 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## Compliance demonstration.

(6)The organic HAP emission rate for the initial compliance period must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4310, you must identify the dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the dyeing/finishing operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.

(i) If your affected source performs only dyeing operations, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section apply to dyeing materials only, and you must demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for dyeing operations.

(ii) If your affected source performs only finishing operations, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section apply to finishing materials only, and you must demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for finishing operations.

(iii) If your affected source performs both dyeing and finishing operations, paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section apply to dyeing and finishing materials combined, and you must demonstrate compliance with the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart for dyeing and finishing operations.

(c) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in wastewater discharged to a POTW or treated onsite prior to discharge in Equation 4 of this section, then you must determine it according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section. You may include in the determination only wastewater streams that are generated by dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source for which you use Equation 4 of this section. You must determine the mass of organic HAP from the average organic HAP concentration and mass flow rate of each wastewater stream generated by the affected dyeing/finishing operation (or group of dyeing/finishing operations discharging to a common wastewater stream) for which you use this allowance. You must consider the actual or anticipated production over the compliance period and include all wastewater streams generated by the affected dyeing/finishing operation(s) during this period. A performance test of the organic HAP loading to the wastewater shall be performed for each operating scenario, as defined in § 63.4371, during the compliance period.
