
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.162 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source auto body repair and miscellaneous surface coating operations in Indian country.
######## Training and certification requirements for spray-applied surface coating personnel.

(f)The owner or operator of the permitted source must ensure and certify that all new and existing personnel, including contract personnel, who spray apply surface coatings are trained in the proper application of surface coatings as required by this permit by rule. The training program must include, at a minimum, the items listed in this paragraph (f). All personnel must be trained no later than 180 days after hiring.

(1) A list of all current personnel by name and job description who are required to be trained.

(2) Hands-on and classroom instruction that addresses, at a minimum, initial and refresher training in the following topics:

(i) Spray gun equipment selection, set up, and operation, including measuring coating viscosity, selecting the proper fluid tip or nozzle, and achieving the proper spray pattern, air pressure and volume, and fluid delivery rate.

(ii) Spray technique for different types of coatings to improve transfer efficiency and minimize coating usage and overspray, including maintaining the correct spray gun distance and angle to the part, using proper banding and overlap, and reducing lead and lag spraying at the beginning and end of each stroke.

(iii) Routine spray booth and filter maintenance, including filter selection and installation.

(iv) Compliance with the requirements of this Permit by Rule.

(3) A description of the methods to be used at the completion of initial or refresher training to demonstrate, document, and provide certification of successful completion of the required training. Owners and operators who can show by documentation or certification that a painter's work experience and/or training has resulted in training equivalent to the training required in paragraph (f)(2) of this section are not required to provide the initial training required by that same paragraph to the painter.

(4) Painter training that was completed within 5 years prior to the date training is required, and that meets the requirements specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section satisfies this requirement and is valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training was completed.

(5) Training and certification will be valid for a period not to exceed 5 years after the date the training is completed, and all personnel must receive refresher training that meets the requirements of this ยง 49.162(f) and be re-certified every 5 years.
