
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4340 By what date must I conduct initial performance tests and other initial compliance demonstrations?
######## Existing sources.

(b)For an existing affected source, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) All emission capture systems, add-on control devices, and CPMS must be installed and operating no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283. Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must conduct a performance test of each capture system and add-on control device according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362, and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292, within 180 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.4283. For a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5), you must initiate the first material balance no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.

(2) You must develop and begin implementing the work practice plan required by § 63.4293 no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.4283.

(3) You must complete the compliance demonstration for the initial compliance period according to the requirements of § 63.4341. The initial compliance period begins on the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.4283 and ends on the last day of the 12th full month after the compliance date. The initial compliance demonstration includes the results of emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests conducted according to §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362; results of liquid-liquid material balances conducted according to § 63.4341(e)(5) or (f)(5); calculations according to § 63.4341 and supporting documentation showing that during the initial compliance period the organic HAP emission rate was equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart; the operating limits established during the performance tests and the results of the continuous parameter monitoring required by § 63.4364; and documentation of whether you developed and implemented the work practice plan required by § 63.4293.
