
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4341 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?

(a) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any individual web coating/printing operation, for any group of web coating/printing operations in the affected source, or for all of the web coating/printing operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled web coating/printing operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option for any web coating/printing operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. To demonstrate initial compliance, any web coating/printing operation for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart, and in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (a), (c), (d), and (e) of this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials applied on web coating/printing operations for which you use the compliant material option, the emission rate without add-on controls option, the organic HAP overall control efficiency option, or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in coating, printing, thinning, or cleaning materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on control option.

(b) You may use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any individual dyeing/finishing operation, for any group of dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source, or for all of the dyeing/finishing operations in the affected source. You may include both controlled and uncontrolled dyeing/finishing operations in a group for which you use this option. You must use either the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in the affected source for which you do not use the emission rate with add-on controls option. You may not use the emission rate with add-on controls option for any dyeing/finishing operation in a dyeing/finishing affected source for which you use the equivalent emission rate option. To demonstrate initial compliance, any dyeing/finishing operation for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option must meet the applicable emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart, and in §§ 63.4292 and 63.4293. You must meet all the requirements of paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (f) this section. When calculating the organic HAP emission rate according to this section, do not include any dyeing or finishing materials applied on dyeing/finishing operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option. You do not need to redetermine the mass of organic HAP in dyeing or finishing materials that have been reclaimed onsite and reused in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option.
