
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4341 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled dyeing/finishing operation using liquid-liquid material balances.

(5)For each controlled dyeing/finishing operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for the compliance period as specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (f)(5)(vi) of this section.

(i) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system for the compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.

(ii) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, kg, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (f)(5)(i) of this section.

(iii) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each dyeing and finishing material applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg volatile organic matter per kg dyeing and finishing material. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the dyeing or finishing material.

(iv) Measure the mass of each dyeing and finishing material applied in the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.

(v) For the compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency using Equation 6 of this section:

(vi) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reductions for the dyeing/finishing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period using Equation 7 of this section and according to paragraph (f)(5)(vi)(A) of this section:

(A) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the dyeing and finishing materials applied in the dyeing/finishing operation(s) controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 7A of this section:
