
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4342 How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, determined according to § 63.4341(e) for web coating/printing operations and according to § 63.4341(f) for dyeing/finishing operations, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4340 is a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4341 on a monthly basis.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate with add-on controls for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4292 that applies to you, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart, and you must conduct periodic performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 2 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).

(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4341 (e)(4) and (f)(4), you must treat the regulated materials applied during a deviation on a controlled coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341 for a web coating/printing operation, and in Equation 5 of § 63.4341 for a dyeing/finishing operation.

(3) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4351(d)(5), within 5 years following the previous performance test, you must conduct according to the procedures in §§ 63.4360, 63.4361, and 63.4362 a periodic performance test of each capture system and add-on control device used, and you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292. You must conduct the first periodic performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4292 before March 15, 2022, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after March 15, 2017. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.

(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4364(b) for controlled coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4341(e)(4), you must treat the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during a deviation on a controlled web coating/printing operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4341(f)(4), you must treat the dyeing and finishing materials applied during a deviation on a controlled dyeing/finishing operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled dyeing/finishing operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 5 of § 63.4341.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4293. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4312(j)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).

(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4311, you must identify the coating/printing and dyeing/finishing operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the applicable emission limitations in §§ 63.4290, 63.4292, and 63.4293, you must submit a statement that, as appropriate, the web coating/printing operations or the dyeing/finishing operations were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293 during each compliance period.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Before September 12, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or web coating/printing or dyeing/finishing operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 12, 2019, as specified in § 63.4300(b), at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions, and determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.
