
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Organic HAP Overall Control Efficiency and Oxidizer Outlet Organic HAP Concentration Options
####### § 63.4351 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## Calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions for controlled web coating/printing operations not using liquid-liquid material balance.

(4)For each controlled web coating/printing operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emissions reductions using Equation 1 of § 63.4341. The equation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the web coating/printing operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4352(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled web coating/printing operation, then you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of § 63.4341 treats the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during such a deviation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation.

(i) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the coating and printing material(s) applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 1A of § 63.4341.

(ii) Calculate the total mass of organic HAP in the thinning and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation(s) during the compliance period, kg, using Equation 1B of § 63.4341.

(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied in the controlled web coating/printing operation during deviations specified in § 63.4352(c) and (d), using Equation 1C of § 63.4341.
