
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Organic HAP Overall Control Efficiency and Oxidizer Outlet Organic HAP Concentration Options
####### ยง 63.4351 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## see

(iii) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating and printing material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg volatile organic matter per kg coating and printing material. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), "Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings" (incorporated by reference,ยง 63.14), or an EPA approved alternative method. Alternatively, you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating or printing material. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), or an approved alternative method, the test method results will govern.

(iv) Measure the mass of each coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning material applied in the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, kg.

(v) For the compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency using Equation 2 of ยง 63.4341.

(vi) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions reductions for the web coating/printing operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of ยง 63.4341.
