
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Printing, Coating, and Dyeing of Fabrics and Other Textiles
###### Compliance Requirements for the Organic HAP Overall Control Efficiency and Oxidizer Outlet Organic HAP Concentration Options
####### § 63.4352 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) You must meet all the requirements of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance with the organic HAP overall control efficiency. The organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period, determined according to the procedures in § 63.4351(d), must be equal to or greater than the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency limit in Table 1 to this subpart. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4350 is a compliance period. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4351(d) on a monthly basis. You must meet the applicable requirements of paragraphs (c) through (j) of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit.

(b) If the organic HAP overall control efficiency for any compliance period failed to meet the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4292 that applies to you, as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 2 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).

(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4351(d)(4), you must treat the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during a deviation on a controlled web coating/printing operation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341.

(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4364(b) for controlled web coating/printing operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the web coating/printing operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4351(d)(4), you must treat the coating, printing, thinning, and cleaning materials applied during a deviation on a controlled web coating/printing operation as if they were applied on an uncontrolled web coating/printing operation for the time period of the deviation as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4341.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4293. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4312(j)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4310(c)(6) and 63.4311(a)(7).

(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4311, you must identify the web coating/printing operation(s) for which you use the organic HAP overall control efficiency option or the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration option. If there were no deviations from the organic HAP overall control efficiency limitations, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP overall control efficiency for each compliance period was greater than or equal to the applicable organic HAP overall control efficiency in Table 1 to this subpart, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293 during each compliance period. If there were no deviations from the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit, the efficiency of the capture system is 100 percent, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4292 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4293 during each compliance period.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Before September 12, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or web coating/printing operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 12, 2019, as specified in § 63.4300(b), at all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions, and determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4312 and 63.4313.
