
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Plastic Parts and Products
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.4482 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, and existing affected source within each of the four subcategories listed in ยง 63.4481(a).

(b) The affected source is the collection of all of the items listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section that are used for surface coating of plastic parts and products within each subcategory.

(1) All coating operations as defined in ยง 63.4581;

(2) All storage containers and mixing vessels in which coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials are stored or mixed;

(3) All manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying coatings, thinners and/or other additives, and cleaning materials; and

(4) All storage containers and all manual and automated equipment and containers used for conveying waste materials generated by a coating operation.

(c) An affected source is a new source if it meets the criteria in paragraph (c)(1) of this section and the criteria in either paragraph (c)(2) or (3) of this section.

(1) You commenced the construction of the source after December 4, 2002 by installing new coating equipment.

(2) The new coating equipment is used to coat plastic parts and products at a source where no plastic parts surface coating was previously performed.

(3) The new coating equipment is used to perform plastic parts and products coating in a subcategory that was not previously performed.

(d) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2.

(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
