
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Plastic Parts and Products
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.4481 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) Plastic parts and products include, but are not limited to, plastic components of the following types of products as well as the products themselves: Motor vehicle parts and accessories for automobiles, trucks, recreational vehicles; sporting and recreational goods; toys; business machines; laboratory and medical equipment; and household and other consumer products. Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is the surface coating of any plastic parts or products, as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and it includes the subcategories listed in paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section.

(1) Surface coating is the application of coating to a substrate using, for example, spray guns or dip tanks. When application of coating to a substrate occurs, then surface coating also includes associated activities, such as surface preparation, cleaning, mixing, and storage. However, these activities do not comprise surface coating if they are not directly related to the application of the coating. Coating application with handheld, non-refillable aerosol containers, touch-up markers, marking pens, or the application of paper film or plastic film which may be pre-coated with an adhesive by the manufacturer are not coating operations for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) The general use coating subcategory includes all surface coating operations that are not automotive lamp coating operations, thermoplastic olefin (TPO) coating operations, or assembled on-road vehicle coating operations.

(3) The automotive lamp coating subcategory includes the surface coating of plastic components of the body of an exterior automotive lamp including, but not limited to, headlamps, tail lamps, turn signals, and marker (clearance) lamps; typical coatings used are reflective argent coatings and clear topcoats. This subcategory does not include the coating of interior automotive lamps, such as dome lamps and instrument panel lamps.

(4) The TPO coating subcategory includes the surface coating of TPO substrates; typical coatings used are adhesion promoters, color coatings, clear coatings and topcoats. The coating of TPO substrates on fully assembled on-road vehicles is not included in the TPO coating subcategory.

(5) The assembled on-road vehicle coating subcategory includes surface coating of fully assembled motor vehicles and trailers intended for on-road use, including, but not limited to: automobiles, light-duty trucks, heavy duty trucks, and busses that have been repaired after a collision or otherwise repainted; fleet delivery trucks; and motor homes and other recreational vehicles (including camping trailers and fifth wheels). This subcategory also includes the incidental coating of parts, such as radiator grilles, that are removed from the fully assembled on-road vehicle to facilitate concurrent coating of all parts associated with the vehicle. The assembled on-road vehicle coating subcategory does not include the surface coating of plastic parts prior to their attachment to an on-road vehicle on an original equipment manufacturer's (OEM) assembly line. The assembled on-road vehicle coating subcategory also does not include the use of adhesives, sealants, and caulks used in assembling on-road vehicles. Body fillers used to correct small surface defects and rubbing compounds used to remove surface scratches are not considered coatings subject to this subpart.

(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source, as defined in § 63.4482, that uses 378 liters (100 gallons (gal)) per year, or more, of coatings that contain hazardous air pollutants (HAP) in the surface coating of plastic parts and products defined in paragraph (a) of this section; and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of HAP. A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year. You do not need to include coatings that meet the definition of non-HAP coating contained in § 63.4581 in determining whether you use 378 liters (100 gallons) per year, or more, of coatings in the surface coating of plastic parts and products.

(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating or a coating operation that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (17) of this section.

(1) A coating operation conducted at a facility where the facility uses only coatings, thinners and other additives, and cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP, as determined according to § 63.3941(a).

(2) Surface coating operations that occur at research or laboratory facilities, or is part of janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations, or that occur at hobby shops that are operated for noncommercial purposes.

(3) The surface coating of plastic parts and products performed on-site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State) or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the surface coating of military munitions manufactured by or for the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State).

(4) Surface coating where plastic is extruded onto plastic parts or products to form a coating.

(5) Surface coating of magnet wire.

(6) In-mold coating operations or gel coating operations in the manufacture of reinforced plastic composite parts that meet the applicability criteria for reinforced plastics composites production (subpart WWWW of this part).

(7) Surface coating of plastic components of wood furniture that meet the applicability criteria for wood furniture manufacturing (subpart JJ of this part).

(8) Surface coating of plastic components of large appliances that meet the applicability criteria for large appliance surface coating (subpart NNNN of this part).

(9) Surface coating of plastic components of metal furniture that meet the applicability criteria for metal furniture surface coating (subpart RRRR of this part).

(10) Surface coating of plastic components of wood building products that meet the applicability criteria for wood building products surface coating (subpart QQQQ of this part).

(11) Surface coating of plastic components of aerospace vehicles that meet the applicability criteria for aerospace manufacturing and rework (40 CFR part 63, subpart GG).

(12) Surface coating of plastic parts intended for use in an aerospace vehicle or component using specialty coatings as defined in appendix A to subpart GG of this part.

(13) Surface coating of plastic components of ships that meet the applicability criteria for shipbuilding and ship repair (subpart II of this part).

(14) Surface coating of plastic using a web coating process that meets the applicability criteria for paper and other web coating (subpart JJJJ of this part).

(15) Surface coating of fiberglass boats or parts of fiberglass boats (including, but not limited to, the use of assembly adhesives) where the facility meets the applicability criteria for boat manufacturing (subpart VVVV of this part), except where the surface coating of the boat is a post-mold coating operation performed on personal watercraft or parts of personal watercraft. This subpart does apply to post-mold coating operations performed on personal watercraft and parts of personal watercraft.

(16) Surface coating of plastic components of automobiles and light-duty trucks that meet the applicability criteria in § 63.3082(b) of the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) at a facility that meets the applicability criteria in § 63.3081(b).

(17) Screen printing.

(d) If your facility meets the applicability criteria in § 63.3081(b) of the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) and you perform surface coating of plastic parts or products that meets both the applicability criteria in § 63.3082(c) and the applicability criteria of this subpart, then for the surface coating of any or all of your plastic parts or products that meets the applicability criteria in § 63.3082(c), you may choose to comply with the requirements of subpart IIII of this part in lieu of complying with this subpart. Surface coating operations on plastic parts or products (e.g., parts for motorcycles or lawnmowers) not intended for use in automobiles, light-duty trucks, or other motor vehicles as defined in § 63.3176 cannot be made part of your affected source under subpart IIII of this part.

(e) If you own or operate an affected source that meets the applicability criteria of this subpart and at the same facility you also perform surface coating that meets the applicability criteria of any other final surface coating NESHAP in this part, you may choose to comply as specified in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) You may have each surface coating operation that meets the applicability criteria of a separate NESHAP comply with that NESHAP separately.

(2) You may comply with the emission limitation representing the predominant surface coating activity at your facility, as determined according to paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section. However, you may not establish assembled on-road vehicle or automotive lamp coating operations as the predominant activity. You must not consider any surface coating activity that is subject to the Surface Coating of Automobiles and Light-Duty Trucks NESHAP (40 CFR part 63, subpart IIII) in determining the predominant surface coating activity at your facility.

(i) If a surface coating operation accounts for 90 percent or more of the surface coating activity at your facility (that is, the predominant activity), then compliance with the emission limitations of the predominant activity for all surface coating operations constitutes compliance with these and other applicable surface coating NESHAP. In determining predominant activity, you must include coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP and constitute more than 1 percent of total coating activities at your facility. Coating activities that meet the applicability criteria of other surface coating NESHAP but comprise less than 1 percent of coating activities need not be included in the determination of predominant activity but must be included in the compliance calculation.
