
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Plastic Parts and Products
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.4520 What reports must I submit?
######## SSM reports.

(c)Before January 5, 2021, if you used the emission rate with add-on controls option and you had a SSM during the semiannual reporting period, you must submit the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. On and after January 5, 2021, the reports specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section are not required.

(1) If your actions were consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must include the information specified in ยง 63.10(d) in the semiannual compliance report required by paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) If your actions were not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report as described in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must describe the actions taken during the event in a report delivered by facsimile, telephone, or other means to the Administrator within 2 working days after starting actions that are inconsistent with the plan.

(ii) You must submit a letter to the Administrator within 7 working days after the end of the event, unless you have made alternative arrangements with the Administrator as specified in ยง 63.10(d)(5)(ii). The letter must contain the information specified in ยง 63.10(d)(5)(ii).
