
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Surface Coating of Plastic Parts and Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4566 How do I determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency?

You must use the procedures and test methods in this section to determine the add-on control device emission destruction or removal efficiency as part of the performance test required by ยง 63.4560. For each performance test, you must conduct three test runs as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3) and each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(a) For all types of add-on control devices, use the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Use EPA Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to select sampling sites and velocity traverse points.

(2) Use EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F of appendix A-1 to 40 CFR part 60, or 2G of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, to measure gas volumetric flow rate.

(3) Use EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-2 to 40 CFR part 60, as appropriate, for gas analysis to determine dry molecular weight.

(4) Use EPA Method 4 of appendix A-3 to 40 CFR part 60, to determine stack gas moisture.

(5) Methods for determining gas volumetric flow rate, dry molecular weight, and stack gas moisture must be performed, as applicable, during each test run.

(b) Measure total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon at the inlet and outlet of the add-on control device simultaneously, using either EPA Method 25 or 25A of appendix A-7 to 40 CFR part 60.

(1) Use EPA Method 25 of appendix A-7 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be more than 50 parts per million (ppm) at the control device outlet.

(2) Use EPA Method 25A of appendix A-7 if the add-on control device is an oxidizer and you expect the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon to be 50 ppm or less at the control device outlet.

(3) Use EPA Method 25A of appendix A-7 if the add-on control device is not an oxidizer.

(4) You may use EPA Method 18 in appendix A-6 of part 60 to subtract methane emissions from measured total gaseous organic mass emissions as carbon.

(c) If two or more add-on control devices are used for the same emission stream, then you must measure emissions at the outlet to the atmosphere of each device. For example, if one add-on control device is a concentrator with an outlet to the atmosphere for the high-volume dilute stream that has been treated by the concentrator, and a second add-on control device is an oxidizer with an outlet to the atmosphere for the low-volume concentrated stream that is treated with the oxidizer, you must measure emissions at the outlet of the oxidizer and the high volume dilute stream outlet of the concentrator.

(d) For each test run, determine the total gaseous organic emissions mass flow rates for the inlet and the outlet of the add-on control device, using Equation 1 of this section. If there is more than one inlet or outlet to the add-on control device, you must calculate the total gaseous organic mass flow rate using Equation 1 of this section for each inlet and each outlet and then total all of the inlet emissions and total all of the outlet emissions:

(e) For each test run, determine the add-on control device organic emissions destruction or removal efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:

(f) Determine the emission destruction or removal efficiency of the add-on control device as the average of the efficiencies determined in the three test runs and calculated in Equation 2 of this section.
