
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.163 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source petroleum dry cleaning facilities in Indian country.
######## Emission limitations and standards.

(2)(i) The permittee shall install, maintain, and operate each affected emissions unit, including any associated air pollution control equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions of NSR regulated pollutants and considering the manufacturer's recommended operating procedures at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, maintenance and malfunction. The reviewing authority will determine whether the permittee is using acceptable operating and maintenance procedures based on information available to the reviewing authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, opacity observations, review of operating and maintenance procedures, and inspection of the permitted source.

(ii) The permittee shall not consume more than the amount of petroleum solvent specified below:

(A) 5,600 gallons per year based on a rolling 12-month total for a facility located in an ozone attainment, unclassifiable or attainment/unclassifiable area; or

(B) 1,300 gallons per year based on a rolling 12-month total for a facility located in an ozone nonattainment area.

(iii) If your facility has a total manufacturer's rated dryer capacity equal to or greater than 38 kilograms (84 pounds), then you shall meet the following requirements:

(A) Each petroleum solvent dry cleaning dryer shall be a solvent recovery dryer. The solvent recovery dryer(s) shall be properly installed, operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(B) Each petroleum solvent dry cleaning dryer located in a serious, severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area shall be a closed loop, dry-to-dry machine with a refrigerated condenser (manufacture red on or after October 20, 2000) or with an evaporatively cooled condenser (manufacture red on or after July 9, 2004.)

(iv) The maximum heat input capacity of each fuel combustion unit shall not exceed 10 MMBtu/hour and only natural gas, propane or butane may be used as fuels.

(v) The total heat input capacity of the fuel combustion units shall be equal to or less than 30 MMBtu/hour.

(vi) The capacity of any volatile organic liquid storage tank shall not exceed 19,812 gallons.

(vii) All solvents shall be stored in closed containers.

(viii) Button and lint traps shall be cleaned each working day.

(ix) All washer lint traps, button traps, access doors, and other parts of the equipment where solvent may be exposed to the atmosphere shall be kept closed at all times except when required for proper operation or maintenance.

(x) The still residue, used filtering material, lint, used solvent and all other wastes containing solvent shall be stored in sealed containers until properly disposed.

(xi) If your facility is located in a serious, severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area, then the permittee shall also comply with the additional equipment specifications and operating requirements specified in ยง 49.163(e).
