
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Emission Limitations
####### § 63.4700 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Any coating operation(s) for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4691(a) and (b), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times.

(2) Any coating operation(s) at existing sources for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4691(c), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limitations as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Before September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM). On and after September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times.

(ii) Before September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4692 at all times, except during periods of SSM, and except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j). On and after September 3, 2019, the coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4692 at all times, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j).

(iii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4693 at all times.

(3) For new or reconstructed sources with initial startup after May 16, 2018, any coating operation(s) for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, as specified in § 63.4691(c), must be in compliance with the applicable emission limitations and work practice standards as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690 at all times.

(ii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the operating limits for emission capture systems and add-on control devices required by § 63.4692 at all times, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j).

(iii) The coating operation(s) must be in compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4693 at all times.

(b) For existing sources as of March 4, 2019, before September 3, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including all air pollution control and monitoring equipment you use for purposes of complying with this subpart, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after September 3, 2019 for such existing sources and after March 4, 2019 for new or reconstructed sources, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(c) If your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the emission capture system, add-on control device, and continuous parameter monitors during the period between the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.4683 and the date when the initial emission capture system and add-on control device performance tests have been completed, as specified in § 63.4760. This requirement does not apply to a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4761(j) in lieu of conducting performance tests.

(d) For existing sources, before September 3, 2019, if your affected source uses an emission capture system and add-on control device, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). The SSMP must address startup, shutdown, and corrective actions in the event of a malfunction of the emission capture system or the add-on control device. The SSMP must also address any coating operation equipment that may cause increased emissions or that would affect capture efficiency if the process equipment malfunctions, such as conveyors that move parts among enclosures.
