
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Emission Limitations
####### ยง 63.4693 What work practice standards must I meet?

(a) For any coating operation(s) on which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.

(b) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by, the coating operation(s); or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented. You must make the plan available upon request for inspection by the Administrator.

(1) All organic-HAP coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers.

(2) Spills of organic-HAP coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.

(3) Organic-HAP coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.

(4) Mixing vessels that contain organic-HAP coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.

(5) Emissions of organic-HAP must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.

(c) If your affected source has an existing documented plan that incorporates steps taken to minimize emissions from the sources specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, then your existing plan can be used to meet the requirement for a work practice plan as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) As provided in ยง 63.6(g), we, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA), may choose to grant you permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.
