
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Emission Limitations
####### § 63.4720 What reports must I submit?
######## e.g.,

(B) The calculations used to determine the 12-month organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period in which a deviation occurred. You must provide the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used each month, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1C of § 63.4751; and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine mass of organic HAP in waste materials according to § 63.4751(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4751; the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction each month by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equations 1 and 1A through 1D of § 63.4761, and Equations 2, 3, and 3A through 3C of § 63.4761, as applicable; the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions each month, using Equation 4 of § 63.4761; and the calculation of the 12-month organic HAP emission rate, using Equation 5 of § 63.4761. You do not need to submit the background data supporting these calculations (information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports).

(C) A brief description of the CPMS.

(D) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(E) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(F) The date, time, and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(G) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart, date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device.

(H) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart, each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(I) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 3 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period by identifying deviations due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes; a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(J) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the semiannual reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(K) A description of any changes in the CPMS, coating operation, emission capture system, or add-on control device since the last semiannual reporting period.

(L) For each deviation from the standard, including work practice standards, a description of the deviation, the date and time period of the deviation, and the actions you took to correct the deviation.

(M) A statement of the cause of each deviation.
