
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Emission Limitations
####### § 63.4730 What records must I keep?
######## Records for an alternative protocol.

(C)Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.4765(e), if applicable.

(vi) The records specified in paragraphs (k)(1)(vi)(A) and (B) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.4766.

(A) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.4764 and 63.4766.

(B) Records of the coating operation conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.

(vii) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.4767 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 3 to this subpart.

(viii) A record of the work practice plan required by § 63.4693, and documentation that you are implementing the plan on a continuous basis.

(2) After March 4, 2019 for new and reconstructed sources, and on and after September 3, 2019 for existing sources:

(i) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you.

(ii) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4765(a).

(iii) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4764 and 63.4765(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section that apply to you.
