
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Emission Limitations
####### ยง 63.4720 What reports must I submit?
######## https://cdx.epa.gov/,https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/compliance-and-emissions-data-reporting-interface-cedri

(2) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required in ยง 63.4710(c) and the semiannual compliance reports required in paragraph (a) of this section to the EPA via the CEDRI. (CEDRI can be accessed through the EPA's CDX ()). For semiannual compliance reports, you must use the appropriate electronic report in CEDRI for this subpart or an alternative electronic file format consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website (). If the reporting form specific to this subpart is not available in CEDRI at the time that the report is due, you must submit the report to the Administrator at all the appropriate addresses listed in ยง 63.13. Once the reporting template has been available in CEDRI for 1 year, you must begin submitting all subsequent reports via CEDRI. For the Notification of Compliance Status, you must submit a file in portable document format (PDF) to CEDRI. The reports must be submitted by the deadlines specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the reports are submitted.

(3) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of EPA system outage, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) You must have been or will be precluded from accessing CEDRI and submitting a required report within the time prescribed due to an outage of either EPA's CEDRI or CDX systems.

(ii) The outage must have occurred within the period of time beginning five business days prior to the date that the submission is due.

(iii) The outage may be planned or unplanned.

(iv) You must submit notification to the Administrator in writing as soon as possible following the date you first knew, or through due diligence should have known, that the event may cause or has caused a delay in reporting.

(v) You must provide to the Administrator a written description identifying:

(A) The date(s) and time(s) when CDX or CEDRI was accessed and the system was unavailable;

(B) A rationale for attributing the delay in reporting beyond the regulatory deadline to EPA system outage;

(C) Measures taken or to be taken to minimize the delay in reporting; and

(D) The date by which you propose to report, or if you have already met the reporting requirement at the time of the notification, the date you reported.

(vi) The decision to accept the claim of EPA system outage and allow an extension to the reporting deadline is solely within the discretion of the Administrator.

(vii) In any circumstance, the report must be submitted electronically as soon as possible after the outage is resolved.

(4) If you are required to electronically submit a report through CEDRI in EPA's CDX, you may assert a claim of force majeure for failure to timely comply with the reporting requirement. To assert a claim of force majeure, you must meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.
