
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4751 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## Alternative compliance demonstration.

(i)As an alternative to paragraph (h) of this section, you may demonstrate initial compliance by identifying each organic HAP component in the coating(s) and conducting a performance test using Method 320 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 or NCASI Method ISS/FP A105.01 (incorporated by reference in § 63.14) (for formaldehyde) or Method 326 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 (for isocyanates) to obtain an organic HAP emission factor (EF). The voluntary consensus standard ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 320 under the conditions specified in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(1) You must also calculate the mass of organic HAP emitted from the coatings used during the month using Equation 1A-alt of this section:

(2) Calculate the organic HAP emission rate for the 12-month compliance period, grams organic HAP per liter coating solids used, using Equation 3 of this section.

(3) The organic HAP emission rate for the initial 12-month compliance period, calculated using Equation 3 of this section, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. You must keep all records as required by §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731. As part of the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.4710, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option and submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the initial compliance period because the organic HAP emission rate was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, determined according to this section.

(4) If ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) is used, the conditions specified in paragraphs (i)(4)(i) and (ii) must be met.

(i) Test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010), sections A1 through A8 are mandatory.

(ii) In ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (Equation A5.5 of ASTM D6348-03). In order for the test data to be acceptable for a compound, %R must be between 70 and 130 percent. If the %R value does not meet this criterion for a target compound, the test data are not acceptable for that compound, and the test must be repeated for that analyte following adjustment of the sampling and/or analytical procedure before the retest. The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report, and all field measurements must be corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound using the following equation: Reported Result = (Measured Concentration in the Stack x 100)/%R.
