
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4752 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, calculated using Equation 3 of § 63.4751, must be less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4750 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4751(a) through (g) on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, this is a deviation from the emission limitations for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(6).

(c) As part of each semiannual compliance report required by § 63.4720, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate without add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, you must submit a statement that the coating operation(s) was (were) in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, determined according to § 63.4751(a) through (g).

(d) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731.

(e) If you use the alternative compliance demonstration described in § 63.4751(i), you must identify each organic HAP component in the coating(s) and conduct a performance test every 5 years to obtain an organic HAP emission factor (EF). You must use the following methods, as appropriate: Method 320 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 or NCASI Method ISS/FP A105.01 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) (for formaldehyde) or Method 326 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 63 (for isocyanates). The voluntary consensus standard ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to using Method 320 under the conditions specified in § 63.4751(i)(4)(i) and (ii).
