
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4761 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for each controlled coating operation using liquid-liquid material balances.

(j)For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during each month. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.

(1) For each solvent recovery system, install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each month. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.

(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the month, grams, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.

(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams volatile organic matter per gram coating. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, one of the voluntary consensus standards specified in ยง 63.4741(a)(2)(i) through (iv), or an EPA approved alternative method, or you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, or an approved alternative method, the test method results will take precedence unless after consultation, a regulated source could demonstrate to the satisfaction of the enforcement agency that the formulation data were correct.

(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams per liter, according to ยง 63.4751(c).

(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, liters.

(6) Each month, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:

(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, using Equation 3 of this section:

(i) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, using Equation 3A of this section:

(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, grams, using Equation 3B of this section:

(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, grams, using Equation 3C of this section.
