
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Wood Building Products
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4763 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) To demonstrate continuous compliance with the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, calculated using Equation 5 of § 63.4761, must be equal to or less than the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690. A compliance period consists of 12 months. Each month after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.4760 is the end of a compliance period consisting of that month and the preceding 11 months. You must perform the calculations in § 63.4761 on a monthly basis using data from the previous 12 months of operation.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any 12-month compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4692 that applies to you, as specified in Table 3 to this subpart.

(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 3 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7).

(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 3 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4761(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4761.

(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4768(b) for controlled coating operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when a controlled coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4761(h), you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4761.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4693. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4730(k)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4710(c)(6) and 63.4720(a)(7).

(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4720, you must identify the coating operation(s) for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, submit a statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4690, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4692 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4693 during each compliance period.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) For existing sources, before September 3, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of SSM of the emission capture system, add-on control device, or coating operation that may affect emission capture or control device efficiency are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period you identify as an SSM are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e).

(i) [Reserved]

(j) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4730 and 63.4731.
