
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.163 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source petroleum dry cleaning facilities in Indian country.
######## Leak check and repair requirements.

(3)(i) No less frequently than monthly, the owner or operator shall inspect the dry cleaning system for liquid and vapor leaks, including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) Hose connections, unions, couplings, valves, and flanges;

(B) Machine door gasket and seating of the machine cylinder;

(C) Filter head gasket and seating;

(D) Pumps;

(E) Base tanks and storage containers;

(F) Water separators;

(G) Filter sludge recovery;

(H) Seals and gaskets of distillation unit(s);

(I) Diverter valves;

(J) Saturated lint from lint trap basket;

(K) Button trap lid;

(L) Cartridge or other types of filters;

(M) Seals, gaskets and the diverter valve of the refrigerated condenser;

(N) Exhaust stream ducts;

(O) Lint trap ducts; and

(P) Gaskets and ducts of the carbon adsorber.

(ii) To inspect for a vapor leak, the operator shall use at least one of the following techniques:

(A) Soap bubble technique in accordance with the procedures in EPA Method 21, section 4.3.3-Alternative Screening Procedure;

(B) A non-halogenated hydrocarbon detector;

(C) A portable hydrocarbon analyzer; or

(D) An alternative method approved by the reviewing authority.

(iii) To inspect for a liquid leak, the operator shall visually inspect the equipment for liquid leaking in a visible mist or at the rate of more than one drop every 3 minutes.

(iv) Any liquid leak or vapor leak that has been detected by the operator shall be repaired within 3 working days of detection. If repair parts are not available at the facility, the parts shall be ordered within 2 working days of detecting such a leak and the operator shall provide written notification to the reviewing authority that explains the reason(s) for delaying the leak repair. Such repair parts shall be installed within 5 working days after receipt. A facility with a leak that has not been repaired by the end of the 7th working day after detection shall not operate the dry cleaning equipment, until the leak is repaired.
