
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.4881 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, the source category to which this subpart applies is surface coating of metal furniture.

(1) Surface coating is the application of coatings to a substrate using, for example, spray guns or dip tanks.

(2) Metal furniture means furniture or components of furniture constructed either entirely or partially from metal. Metal furniture includes, but is not limited to, components of the following types of products as well as the products themselves: household, office, institutional, laboratory, hospital, public building, restaurant, barber and beauty shop, and dental furniture; office and store fixtures; partitions; shelving; lockers; lamps and lighting fixtures; and wastebaskets.

(b) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a new, reconstructed, or existing affected source as defined in ยง 63.4882, in the source category defined in paragraph (a) of this section, and that is a major source, is located at a major source, or is part of a major source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP). A major source of HAP emissions is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams (Mg) (10 tons) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg (25 tons) or more per year.

(c) This subpart does not apply to surface coating that meets any of the criteria of paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Surface coating conducted at an affected source that uses only coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that contain no organic HAP.

(2) Surface coating of metal components of wood furniture conducted in an operation that is subject to the wood furniture manufacturing NESHAP in subpart JJ of this part.

(3) Surface coating that occurs at research or laboratory facilities or that is part of janitorial, building, and facility maintenance operations.

(4) Surface coating of only small items such as knobs, hinges, or screws that have a wider use beyond metal furniture are not subject to this subpart unless the surface coating occurs at an affected metal furniture source.

(5) Surface coating of metal furniture conducted for the purpose of repairing or maintaining metal furniture used by a major source and not for commerce is not subject to this subpart, unless organic HAP emissions from the surface coating itself are as high as the rates specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(6) Surface coating of metal furniture performed on-site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any State).
