
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Emission Limitations
####### § 63.4891 What are my options for demonstrating compliance with the emission limits?
######## Emission rate with add-on controls option.

(c)Demonstrate that, based on the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the coating operation or group of coating operations, and the emission reductions achieved by emission capture and add-on control systems, the organic HAP emission rate is less than or equal to the applicable emission rate limit in § 63.4890, calculated as a monthly emission rate. If you use this compliance option, you must also demonstrate that all capture systems and add-on control devices for the coating operation or group of coating operations meet the operating limits required in § 63.4892, except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j); and that you meet the work practice standards required in § 63.4893. You must meet all the requirements of §§ 63.4960 through 63.4967 to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards using this option.

(d) If you choose to use the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option in paragraph (c) of this section and operate the coating operation, its emission capture system, or its add-on control device at multiple sets of representative operating conditions that result in different capture system or add-on control device efficiencies during a compliance period, you must follow one of the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Determine the operating conditions that result in the lowest emission capture system and add-on control device efficiencies through performance testing conducted according to §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965. Use these emission capture system and add-on control device efficiencies for all representative operating conditions during the compliance period.

(2) Develop a compliance calculation procedure for determining the organic HAP emission rate for the compliance period that takes into account all of the representative operating conditions the source was operated under during the compliance period and submit the procedure to the Administrator for approval. Until you receive approval from the Administrator, you must determine compliance according to paragraph (c) of this section.
