
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Emission Limitations
####### ยง 63.4893 What work practice standards must I meet?

(a) For any coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the compliant material option or the emission rate without add-on controls option to demonstrate compliance, you are not required to meet any work practice standards.

(b) For any coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use the emission rate with add-on controls option to demonstrate compliance, you must develop and implement a work practice plan to minimize organic HAP emissions from the storage, mixing, and conveying of coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in, and waste materials generated by, the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you use this option; or you must meet an alternative standard as provided in paragraph (c) of this section. The plan must specify practices and procedures to ensure that, at a minimum, the elements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are implemented.

(1) All organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be stored in closed containers. You must ensure that these containers are kept closed at all times except when depositing or removing these materials from the container.

(2) Spills of organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be minimized.

(3) Organic-HAP-containing coatings, thinners, cleaning materials, and waste materials must be conveyed from one location to another in closed containers or pipes.

(4) Mixing vessels which contain organic-HAP-containing coatings and other materials must be closed except when adding to, removing, or mixing the contents.

(5) Emissions of organic HAP must be minimized during cleaning of storage, mixing, and conveying equipment.

(c) As provided in ยง 63.6(g), the Administrator may choose to grant you permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.
