
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.164 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source gasoline dispensing facilities in Indian country.
######## Emergency engine

(4)means any stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine that meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section. All emergency engines must comply with the requirements specified in 40 CFR 63.6640(f) in order to be considered emergency engines. If the engine does not comply with the requirements specified, then it is not considered to be an emergency engine.

(i) The engine is operated to provide electrical power or mechanical work during an emergency situation. Examples include engines used to produce power for critical networks or equipment (including power supplied to portions of a facility) when electric power from the local utility (or the normal power source, if the facility runs on its own power production) is interrupted, or an engine used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc.

(ii) The engine is operated under limited circumstances for situations not included in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, as specified in 40 CFR 63.6640(f).

(iii) The engine operates as part of a financial arrangement with another entity in situations not included in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this definition only as allowed in 40 CFR 63.6640(f).
