
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4920 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: Compliant material option.

(5)If you used the compliant material option, and there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, and of each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the dates and time periods each was used.

(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation.

(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) Identification of each coating used that deviated from the emission limit, and of each thinner and cleaning material used that contained organic HAP, and the date, time, and duration each was used.

(B) The calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(C) The determination of mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material identified in paragraph (a)(5)(ii)(A) of this section. You do not need to submit background data supporting this calculation, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(D) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(E) The number of deviations and, for each deviation, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
