
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4920 What reports must I submit?
######## Deviations: Emission rate without add-on controls option.

(6)If you used the emission rate without add-on controls option, and there was a deviation from any applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. You do not need to submit background data supporting these calculations, for example, information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers, or test reports.

(i) Before September 12, 2019, the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.

(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month, using Equations 1 of § 63.4951.

(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.

(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each month, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.

(E) A statement of the cause of each deviation.

(ii) On and after September 12, 2019, if there was a deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, the semiannual compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(6)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) The beginning and ending dates of each compliance period during which the organic HAP emission rate exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890.

(B) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for each month, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951.

(C) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used each month, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951.

(D) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each month, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.

(E) A statement of the cause of each deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(F) The number of deviations, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.4890, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
