
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.4930 What records must I keep?

You must collect and keep records of the data and information specified in this section. Failure to collect and keep these records is a deviation from the applicable standard.

(a) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, and the documentation supporting each notification and report.

(b) A current copy of information provided by materials suppliers or manufacturers. This would include records pertaining to the design and manufacturer's specifications for the life of the add-on control equipment. It would also include information such as manufacturer's formulation data for the materials used, or test data used to determine the mass fraction of organic HAP and density for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material and the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating. If you conducted testing to determine mass fraction of organic HAP, density, or volume fraction of coating solids, you must keep a copy of the complete test report. If you use information provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier of the material that was based on testing, you must keep the summary sheet of results provided to you by the manufacturer or supplier. You are not required to obtain the test report or other supporting documentation from the manufacturer or supplier.

(c) For each compliance period, the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A record of the coating operations at which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) you used each option.

(2) For the compliant material option, a record of the calculation of the organic HAP content for each coating, using Equation 2 of § 63.4941.

(3) For the emission rate without add-on controls option, a record of the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each compliance period, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4); the calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during each compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951; and the calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4951.

(4) For the emission rate with add-on controls option, records of the calculations specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions for the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during each compliance period, using Equation 1 of § 63.4951 and, if applicable, the calculation used to determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to § 63.4951(e)(4);

(ii) The calculation of the total volume of coating solids used during each compliance period, using Equation 2 of § 63.4951;

(iii) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices, using Equation 1 of § 63.4961, and the calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by a solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of § 63.4961, as applicable;

(iv) The calculation of the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period, using Equation 4 of § 63.4961.

(d) A record of the name and volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.

(e) A record of the mass fraction of organic HAP for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used during each compliance period.

(f) A record of the volume fraction of coating solids for each coating used during each compliance period.

(g) If a determination of density is required by the compliance option(s) you used to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit, a record of the density for each coating used during each compliance period; and, if you use either the emission rate without add-on controls or the emission rate with add-on controls compliance option, the density for each thinner and cleaning material used during each compliance period.

(h) If you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4951 for organic HAP contained in waste materials sent to or designated for shipment to a TSDF according to § 63.4951(e)(4), you must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The name and address of each TSDF to which you sent waste materials for which you use an allowance in Equation 1 of § 63.4951, a statement of which subparts under 40 CFR parts 262, 264, 265, and 266 apply to the facility, and the date of each shipment.

(2) Identification of the coating operations producing waste materials included in each shipment and the month or months in which you used the allowance for these materials in Equation 1 of § 63.4951.

(3) The methodology used in accordance with § 63.4951(e)(4) to determine the total amount of waste materials sent to or the amount collected, stored, and designated for transport to a TSDF each month; and the methodology to determine the mass of organic HAP contained in these waste materials. This must include the sources for all data used in the determination, methods used to generate the data, frequency of testing or monitoring, and supporting calculations and documentation, including the waste manifest for each shipment.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) Before September 12, 2019, you must keep records of the date, time, and duration of each deviation. On and after September 12, 2019, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7), you must keep a record of the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.

(1) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7).

(2) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7).

(3) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 or any applicable operating limit(s) in Table 1 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.4920(a)(5) through (7).

(4) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.4900(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(k) If you use the emission rate with add-on controls option, you must also keep the records specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Before September 12, 2019, for each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. The record in this paragraph (k)(1) is not required on and after September 12, 2019.

(2) Before September 12, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. The records in this paragraph (k)(2) are not required on and after September 12, 2019.

(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.

(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.4964(a).

(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.4963 and 63.4964(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (k)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section that apply to you.
