
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Compliant Material Option
####### § 63.4941 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?

You may use the compliant material option for any individual coating operation, for any group of coating operations in the affected source, or for all the coating operations in the affected source to demonstrate compliance with an organic HAP emission limit. You must use either the emission rate without add-on controls option or the emission rate with add-on controls option for any coating operation in the affected source for which you do not use this option. To demonstrate initial compliance using the compliant material option, during the compliance period the coating operation or group of coating operations must use no coating with an organic HAP content that exceeds the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890 and must use no thinner or cleaning material that contains organic HAP as determined according to this section. Any coating operation for which you use the compliant material option is not required to comply with the operating limits or work practice standards required in §§ 63.4892 and 63.4893, respectively. To demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations using the compliant material option, you must meet all the requirements of this section for the coating operation or group of coating operations using this option. Use the procedures in this section for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material in the condition it is in when it is received from its manufacturer or supplier and prior to any alteration. You do not need to redetermine the organic HAP content of cleaning materials that are reclaimed and reused onsite provided these materials in their condition as received were demonstrated to comply with the compliant material option.
