
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate Without Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4951 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations?
######## Calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions.

(e)The mass of organic HAP emissions is the combined mass of organic HAP contained in all coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during the compliance period minus the organic HAP in certain waste materials. Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the mass of organic HAP emissions:

(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used during the compliance period, using Equation 1A of this section:

(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used during the compliance period, using Equation 1B of this section:

(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used during the compliance period using Equation 1C of this section:

(4) If you choose to account for the mass of organic HAP contained in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP emissions during the compliance period in Equation 1 of this section, then you must determine the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period, according to paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You may include in the determination of the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period only waste materials that are generated by coating operations for which you use Equation 1 of this section and that will be treated or disposed of by a facility regulated as a TSDF under 40 CFR part 262, 264, 265, or 266. The TSDF may be either off-site or on-site. You may not include in the determination of the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period only waste materials that are generated by coating operations the organic HAP contained in wastewater, nor the organic HAP contained in any waste material reused during the same compliance period.

(ii) You must determine either the amount of the waste materials sent to a TSDF during the compliance period or the amount collected and stored during the compliance period and designated for future transport to a TSDF. Do not include in your determination of the total mass of organic HAP in waste materials sent or designated for shipment to a hazardous waste TSDF for treatment or disposal during each compliance period only waste materials that are generated by coating operations any waste materials sent to a TSDF during a compliance period if you have already included them in the amount collected and stored during that or a previous compliance period.

(iii) Determine the total mass of organic HAP contained in the waste materials specified in paragraph (e)(4)(ii) of this section.

(iv) You must document your methodology to determine the amount of waste materials and the total mass of organic HAP they contain, as required in ยง 63.4930(h). To the extent that waste manifests include this information, they may be used as part of the documentation of the amount of waste materials and mass of organic HAP contained in them.
