
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4961 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operations not using liquid-liquid material balance.

(h)For each controlled coating operation using an emission capture system and add-on control device other than a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction, using Equation 1 of this section. The calculation applies the emission capture system efficiency and add-on control device efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation served by the emission capture system and add-on control device during the compliance period. For any period of time a deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) occurs in the controlled coating operation, you must assume zero efficiency for the emission capture system and add-on control device. Equation 1 of this section treats the materials used during such a deviation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation:

(1) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1A of this section. Do not include in the calculation the coatings used during any deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) that occurred during the month. Include such coatings in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation in Equation 1D of this section.

(2) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1B of this section. Do not include in the calculation the thinners used during any deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) that occurred during the month. Include such coatings in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation in Equation 1D of this section.

(3) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation, using Equation 1C of this section. Do not include in the calculation the cleaning materials used during any deviation specified in § 63.4962(c) or (d) that occurred during the compliance period. Include such cleaning materials in the calculation of the total mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used during all deviations that occurred during the compliance period in the controlled coating operation in Equation 1D of this section.

(4) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials used in the controlled coating operation during deviations specified in § 63.4962(c) and (d), using Equation 1D of this section:

(i) [Reserved]
