
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4961 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## Calculate the organic HAP emission reduction for controlled coating operations using liquid-liquid material balance.

(j)For each controlled coating operation using a solvent recovery system for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances, calculate the organic HAP emission reduction by applying the volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency to the mass of organic HAP contained in the coatings, thinners, and cleaning materials that are used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each compliance period as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section. Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by the solvent recovery system as specified in paragraph (j)(7) of this section.

(1) For each solvent recovery system, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile organic matter recovered by the solvent recovery system each compliance period. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-2.0 percent of the mass of volatile organic matter recovered.

(2) For each solvent recovery system, determine the mass of volatile organic matter recovered for the compliance period, based on measurement with the device required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section.
