
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4961 How do I demonstrate initial compliance?
######## see

(3) Determine the mass fraction of volatile organic matter for each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period. You may determine the volatile organic matter mass fraction using Method 24 in appendix A-7 of part 60, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), "Test Method for Volatile Content of Coatings" (incorporated by reference,ยง 63.14), or an EPA-approved alternative method. Alternatively, you may use information provided by the manufacturer or supplier of the coating. In the event of any inconsistency between information provided by the manufacturer or supplier and the results of Method 24, ASTM D2369-10 (R2015), or an approved alternative method, the test method results will govern.

(4) Determine the density of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period according to ยง 63.4951(c).

(5) Measure the volume of each coating, thinner, and cleaning material used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period.

(6) For each compliance period, calculate the solvent recovery system's volatile organic matter collection and recovery efficiency, using Equation 2 of this section:

(7) Calculate the mass of organic HAP emission reduction for the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the compliance period, using Equation 3 of this section:

(i) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the coatings used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, kg, using Equation 3A of this section.

(ii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the thinners used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system, using Equation 3B of this section:

(iii) Calculate the mass of organic HAP in the cleaning materials used in the coating operation controlled by the solvent recovery system during the month, using Equation 3C of this section:
