
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### § 63.4962 How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) Following the initial compliance period, you must complete a compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.4961(m) for each subsequent compliance period. Each month following the initial compliance period described in § 63.4960 is a compliance period.

(b) If the organic HAP emission rate for any compliance period exceeded the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, this is a deviation from the emission limitation for that compliance period and must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit required by § 63.4892 that applies to you, as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and you must conduct periodic performance tests as specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(1) If an operating parameter is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart, this is a deviation from the operating limit that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7).

(2) If an operating parameter deviates from the operating limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, then you must assume that the emission capture system and add-on control device were achieving zero efficiency during the time period of the deviation. For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations specified in § 63.4961, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4961.

(3) Except for solvent recovery systems for which you conduct liquid-liquid material balances according to § 63.4961(j), within 5 years following the previous performance test, you must conduct according to the procedures in §§ 63.4963, 63.4964, and 63.4965 a periodic performance test of each capture system and add-on control device used, and you must establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892. You must conduct the first periodic performance test and establish the operating limits required by § 63.4892 before March 15, 2022, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and have conducted a performance test on or after March 15, 2017. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.

(d) You must meet the requirements for bypass lines in § 63.4967(b) for controlled coating operations for which you do not conduct liquid-liquid material balances. If any bypass line is opened and emissions are diverted to the atmosphere when the coating operation is running, this is a deviation that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7). For the purposes of completing the compliance calculations in § 63.4961, you must treat the materials used during a deviation on a controlled coating operation as if they were used on an uncontrolled coating operation for the time period of the deviation, as indicated in Equation 1 of § 63.4961.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards in § 63.4893. If you did not develop a work practice plan, or you did not implement the plan, or you did not keep the records required by § 63.4930(k)(8), this is a deviation from the work practice standards that must be reported as specified in §§ 63.4910(c)(6) and 63.4920(a)(7).

(f) As part of each semiannual compliance report required in § 63.4920, you must identify the coating operation or group of coating operations for which you used the emission rate with add-on controls option. If there were no deviations from the emission limitations, submit an affirmative statement that you were in compliance with the emission limitations during the reporting period because the organic HAP emission rate for each compliance period was less than or equal to the applicable emission limit in § 63.4890, and you achieved the operating limits required by § 63.4892 and the work practice standards required by § 63.4893 during each compliance period.

(g)-(h) [Reserved]

(i) You must maintain records as specified in §§ 63.4930 and 63.4931.
