
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Furniture
###### Compliance Requirements for the Emission Rate With Add-On Controls Option
####### ยง 63.4967 What are the requirements for continuous parameter monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance?
######## Emission capture systems.

(f)The capture system monitoring system must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each flow measurement device, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Locate a flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct from each capture device in the emission capture system to the add-on control device.

(ii) Use a flow sensor with an accuracy of at least 10 percent of the flow.

(iii) Perform an initial sensor calibration in accordance with the manufacturer's requirements.

(iv) Perform a validation check before initial use or upon relocation or replacement of a sensor. Validation checks include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or via relative accuracy testing.

(v) Perform accuracy audits every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values with electronic signal simulations or with values obtained via relative accuracy testing.

(vi) Perform leak checks monthly.

(vii) Perform visual inspections of the sensor system quarterly if there is no redundant sensor.

(2) For each pressure drop measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each opening you are monitoring.

(ii) Use a pressure sensor with an accuracy of at least 0.5 inches of water column or 5 percent of the measured value, whichever is larger.

(iii) Perform an initial calibration of the sensor according to the manufacturer's requirements.

(iv) Conduct a validation check before initial operation or upon relocation or replacement of the sensor. Validation checks include comparison of the sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.

(v) Conduct accuracy audits every quarter and after every 24 hour excursion. Accuracy audits include comparison of sensor values to calibrated pressure measurement devices or to pressure simulation using calibrated pressure sources.

(vi) Perform monthly leak checks on pressure connections. A pressure of at least 1.0 inches of water column to the connection must yield a stable sensor result for at least 15 seconds.

(vii) Perform a visual inspection of the sensor at least monthly if there is no redundant sensor.
