
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.5090 Does this subpart apply to me?

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to each facility that is a major source of HAP, as defined in ยง 63.2, at which a coil coating line is operated, except as provided in paragraphs (b) and (e) of this section.

(b) This subpart does not apply to any coil coating line that meets the criteria of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) A coil coating line that is part of research or laboratory equipment.

(2) A coil coating line on which at least 85 percent of the metal coil coated, based on surface area, is less than 0.15 millimeter (0.006 inch) thick, except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section.

(c) If you operate a coating line subject to subpart JJJJ of this part that also meets the criteria in either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, and you choose to comply with the requirements of this subpart, then such compliance constitutes compliance with subpart JJJJ. The coating line for which you choose this option is, therefore, included in the affected source for this subpart as defined in ยง 63.5110 and shall not be included in the affected source for subpart JJJJ as defined in ยง 63.3300.

(1) The coating line is used to coat metal coil of thicknesses both less than and greater than or equal to 0.15 millimeter (0.006 inch) thick, regardless of the percentage of surface area of each thickness coated.

(2) The coating line is used to coat only metal coil that is less than 0.15 millimeter (0.006 inch) thick and the coating line is controlled by a common control device that also receives organic HAP emissions from a coil coating line that is subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(d) Each coil coating line that does not comply with the provisions of this subpart because it meets the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, that for any rolling 12-month period fails to meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(2) would from that point forward become subject to the provisions of this subpart. After becoming subject to the provisions of this subpart, the coil coating line would no longer be eligible to use the criteria of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, even if in subsequent 12-month periods at least 85 percent of the metal coil coated, based on surface area, is less than 0.15 millimeter (0.006 inch) thick.

(e) This subpart does not apply to the application of incidental markings (including letters, numbers, or symbols) that are added to bare metal coils and that are used for only product identification or for product inventory control. The application of letters, numbers, or symbols to a coated metal coil is considered a coil coating process and part of the coil coating affected source.
