
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### General Requirements for Compliance with the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### § 63.5150 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Temperature monitoring of oxidizers.

(3)If you are complying with the requirements of the standards in § 63.5120 through the use of an oxidizer and demonstrating continuous compliance through monitoring of an oxidizer operating parameter, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Install, calibrate, maintain, and operate temperature monitoring equipment according to manufacturer's specifications. The calibration of the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator must be verified every 3 months; or the chart recorder, data logger, or temperature indicator must be replaced. You must replace the equipment either if you choose not to perform the calibration, or if the equipment cannot be calibrated properly. Each temperature monitoring device must be equipped with a continuous recorder. The device must have an accuracy of +/-1 percent of the temperature being monitored in degrees Celsius, or +/-1 &#xB0;Celsius, whichever is greater.

(ii) For an oxidizer other than a catalytic oxidizer, to demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limit established according to § 63.5160(d)(3)(i), you must install the thermocouple or temperature sensor in the combustion chamber at a location in the combustion zone.

(iii) For a catalytic oxidizer, if you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the operating limit established according to § 63.5160(d)(3)(ii)(A) and (B), then you must install the thermocouples or temperature sensors in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet and outlet of the catalyst bed. Calculate the temperature difference across the catalyst. If you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the operating limit established according to § 63.5160(d)(3)(ii)(C) and (D), then you must install the thermocouple or temperature sensor in the vent stream at the nearest feasible point to the inlet of the catalyst bed.
