
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### General Requirements for Compliance with the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### § 63.5150 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS).

(2)If you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the standards in § 63.5120(a)(1) or (2) through continuous emission monitoring of a control device, you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain continuous emission monitors to measure the total organic volatile matter concentration at both the control device inlet and outlet, and you must continuously monitor flow rate. If you are demonstrating continuous compliance with the outlet organic HAP concentration limit in § 63.5120(a)(3), you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain a continuous emission monitor to measure the total organic volatile matter concentration at the control device outlet.

(i) All CEMS must comply with performance specification 8 or 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, as appropriate for the detection principle you choose. The requirements of 40 CFR part 60, procedure 1, appendix F must also be followed. In conducting the quarterly audits of the monitors as required by procedure 1, appendix F, you must use compounds representative of the gaseous emission stream being controlled.

(ii) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(ii), each CEMS and each flow rate monitor must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. Information which must be determined for recordkeeping purposes, as required by § 63.5190(a)(1)(i) includes:

(A) The hourly average of all recorded readings;

(B) The daily average of all recorded readings for each operating day; and

(C) The monthly average for each month during the semiannual reporting period.
