
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### General Requirements for Compliance with the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.5150 If I use a control device to comply with the emission standards, what monitoring must I do?
######## Capture system monitoring.

(4)If you are complying with the requirements of the standards in ยง 63.5120 through the use of a capture system and control device, you must develop a capture system monitoring plan containing the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must monitor the capture system in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section. You must make the monitoring plan available for inspection by the permitting authority upon request.

(i) The monitoring plan must identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during compliance tests is maintained, explain why this parameter is appropriate for demonstrating ongoing compliance, and identify the specific monitoring procedures.

(ii) The plan also must specify operating limits at the capture system operating parameter value, or range of values, that demonstrates compliance with the standards in ยง 63.5120. The operating limits must represent the conditions indicative of proper operation and maintenance of the capture system.

(iii) You must conduct monitoring in accordance with the plan.

(b) If an operating parameter monitored in accordance with paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section is out of the allowed range specified in Table 1 to this subpart it will be considered a deviation from the operating limit.
