
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### General Requirements for Compliance with the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### § 63.5160 What performance tests must I complete?
######## Solids content and density.

(c)You must determine the solids content and the density of each coating material applied. You may determine the volume solids content using ASTM D2697-03(2014) Standard Test Method for Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) or ASTM D6093-97 (2016) Standard Test Method for Percent Volume Nonvolatile Matter in Clear or Pigmented Coatings Using a Helium Gas Pycnometer (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), or an EPA approved alternative method. You must determine the density of each coating using ASTM D1475-13 "Standard Test Method for Density of Liquid Coatings, Inks, and Related Products" (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) or ASTM D2111-10 (2015) "Standard Test Methods for Specific Gravity and Density of Halogenated Organic Solvents and Their Admixtures" (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). The solids determination using ASTM D2697-03(2014) or ASTM D6093-97 (2016) and the density determination using ASTM D1475-13 or ASTM 2111-10 (2015) may be performed by the manufacturer of the material and the results provided to you. Alternatively, you may rely on formulation data provided by material providers to determine the volume solids. In the event of any inconsistency between test data obtained with the ASTM test methods specified in this section and formulation data, the test data will govern.
