
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### General Requirements for Compliance with the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.5160 What performance tests must I complete?
######## Method 311.

(1)You may test the material in accordance with Method 311 of appendix A of this part. The Method 311 determination may be performed by the manufacturer of the material and the results provided to you. The organic HAP content must be calculated according to the criteria and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Count only those organic HAP in Table 3 to this subpart that are measured to be present at greater than or equal to 0.1 weight percent and greater than or equal to 1.0 weight percent for other organic HAP compounds.

(ii) Express the weight fraction of each organic HAP you count according to paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.3791).

(iii) Calculate the total weight fraction of organic HAP in the tested material by summing the counted individual organic HAP weight fractions and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.763).
