
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### General Requirements for Compliance with the Emission Standards and for Monitoring and Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.5160 What performance tests must I complete?
######## Capture efficiency.

(e)If you are required to determine capture efficiency to meet the requirements of ยง 63.5170(e)(2), (f)(1) and (2), (g)(2) through (4), or (i)(2) and (3), you must determine capture efficiency using the procedures in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, as applicable.

(1) For an enclosure that meets the criteria for a PTE, you may assume it achieves 100 percent capture efficiency. You must confirm that your capture system is a PTE by demonstrating that it meets the requirements of section 6 of EPA Method 204 of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M (or an EPA approved alternative method), and that all exhaust gases from the enclosure are delivered to a control device.

(2) You may determine capture efficiency, CE, according to the protocols for testing with temporary total enclosures that are specified in Method 204A through F of 40 CFR part 51, appendix M. You may exclude never-controlled work stations from such capture efficiency determinations.

(3) As an alternative to the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, if you are required to conduct a capture efficiency test, you may use any capture efficiency protocol and test methods that satisfy the criteria of either the Data Quality Objective or the Lower Confidence Limit approach as described in appendix A to subpart KK of this part. You may exclude never-controlled work stations from such capture efficiency determinations.
