
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### Requirements for Showing Compliance
####### § 63.5170 How do I demonstrate compliance with the standards?
######## Capture and control to reduce emissions to no more than the allowable limit.

(c)If you use one or more capture systems and one or more control devices and demonstrate an average overall organic HAP control efficiency of at least 98 percent for each month to comply with § 63.5120(a)(1); or operate a capture system and oxidizer so that the capture efficiency is 100 percent and the oxidizer outlet HAP concentration is no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis to comply with § 63.5120(a)(3), you must follow one of the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. Alternatively, you may demonstrate compliance for an individual coil coating line by operating its capture system and control device and continuous parameter monitoring system according to the procedures in paragraph (i) of this section.

(1) If the affected source uses one compliance procedure to limit organic HAP emissions to the level specified in § 63.5120(a)(1) or (3) and has only always-controlled work stations, then you must demonstrate compliance with the provisions of paragraph (e) of this section when emissions from the affected source are controlled by one or more solvent recovery devices.

(2) If the affected source uses one compliance procedure to limit organic HAP emissions to the level specified in § 63.5120(a)(1) or (3) and has only always-controlled work stations, then you must demonstrate compliance with the provisions of paragraph (f) of this section when emissions are controlled by one or more oxidizers.

(3) If the affected source operates both solvent recovery and oxidizer control devices, one or more never-controlled work stations, or one or more intermittently-controllable work stations, or uses more than one compliance procedure, then you must demonstrate compliance with the provisions of paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) The method of limiting organic HAP emissions to the level specified in § 63.5120(a)(3) is the installation and operation of a PTE around each work station and associated curing oven in the coating line and the ventilation of all organic HAP emissions from each PTE to an oxidizer with an outlet organic HAP concentration of no greater than 20 ppmv on a dry basis. An enclosure that meets the requirements in § 63.5160(e)(1) is considered a PTE. Compliance of the oxidizer with the outlet organic HAP concentration limit is demonstrated either through continuous emission monitoring according to paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section or through performance tests according to the requirements of § 63.5160(d) and Table 1 to § 63.5160. If this method is selected, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section to demonstrate continuing achievement of 100 percent capture of organic HAP emissions and either paragraph (c)(4)(ii) or paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section, respectively, to demonstrate continuous compliance with the oxidizer outlet organic HAP concentration limit through continuous emission monitoring or continuous operating parameter monitoring:

(i) Whenever a work station is operated, continuously monitor the capture system operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(4).

(ii) To demonstrate that the value of the exhaust gas organic HAP concentration at the outlet of the oxidizer is no greater than 20 ppmv, on a dry basis, install, calibrate, operate, and maintain CEMS according to the requirements of § 63.5150(a)(2).

(iii) To demonstrate continuous compliance with operating limits established in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(3), whenever a work station is operated, continuously monitor the applicable oxidizer operating parameter.
