
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### Requirements for Showing Compliance
####### § 63.5170 How do I demonstrate compliance with the standards?
######## Liquid-liquid material balance.

(1)Perform a liquid-liquid material balance for each month as specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section and use Equations 4 through 6 of this section to convert the data to units of this standard. All determinations of quantity of coating and composition of coating must be made at a time and location in the process after all ingredients (including any dilution solvent) have been added to the coating, or appropriate adjustments must be made to account for any ingredients added after the amount of coating has been determined.

(i) Measure the mass of each coating material applied on the work station or group of work stations controlled by one or more solvent recovery devices during the month.

(ii) If demonstrating compliance with the organic HAP emission rate based on solids applied, determine the organic HAP content of each coating material applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.5160(b).

(iii) Determine the volatile matter content of each coating material applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.5160(c).

(iv) If demonstrating compliance with the organic HAP emission rate based on solids applied, determine the solids content of each coating material applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.5160(c).

(v) For each solvent recovery device used to comply with § 63.5120(a), install, calibrate, maintain, and operate according to the manufacturer's specifications, a device that indicates the cumulative amount of volatile matter recovered by the solvent recovery device on a monthly basis. The device must be initially certified by the manufacturer to be accurate to within +/-2.0 percent.

(vi) For each solvent recovery device used to comply with § 63.5120(a), measure the amount of volatile matter recovered for the month.
