
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### Requirements for Showing Compliance
####### § 63.5170 How do I demonstrate compliance with the standards?
######## Continuous monitoring of capture system and control device operating parameters.

(1)Demonstrate compliance through performance tests of capture efficiency and control device efficiency and continuous monitoring of capture system and control device operating parameters as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (xi) of this section:

(i) For each oxidizer used to comply with § 63.5120(a), determine the oxidizer destruction or removal efficiency, DRE, using the procedure in § 63.5160(d).

(ii) Whenever a work station is operated, continuously monitor the operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(3).

(iii) Determine the capture system capture efficiency, CE, for each work station in accordance with § 63.5160(e).

(iv) Whenever a work station is operated, continuously monitor the operating parameter established in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(4).

(v) Calculate the overall organic HAP control efficiency, R, achieved using Equation 7 of this section.

(vi) If demonstrating compliance with the organic HAP emission rate based on solids applied, measure the mass of each coating material applied on each work station during the month.

(vii) If demonstrating compliance with the organic HAP emission rate based on solids applied, determine the organic HAP content of each coating material applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.5160(b).

(viii) If demonstrating compliance with the organic HAP emission rate based on solids applied, determine the solids content of each coating material applied during the month following the procedure in § 63.5160(c).

(ix) Calculate the organic HAP emitted during the month, H, for each month:

(A) For each work station and its associated oxidizer, use Equation 8 of this section.

(B) For periods when the oxidizer has not operated within its established operating limit, the control device efficiency is determined to be zero.
