
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### § 63.5180 What reports must I submit?

(a) Submit the reports specified in paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section to the EPA Regional Office that serves the State or territory in which the affected source is located and to the delegated State agency:

(b) You must submit an initial notification required in § 63.9(b).

(1) Submit an initial notification for an existing source no later than 2 years after June 10, 2002, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(2) Submit an initial notification for a new or reconstructed source as required by § 63.9(b).

(3) For the purpose of this subpart, a title V permit application may be used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b), provided the same information is contained in the permit application as required by § 63.9(b), and the State to which the permit application has been submitted has an approved operating permit program under part 70 of this chapter and has received delegation of authority from the EPA.

(4) Submit a title V permit application used in lieu of the initial notification required under § 63.9(b) by the same due dates as those specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section for the initial notifications.

(c) You must submit a Notification of Performance Test as specified in §§ 63.7 and 63.9(e) if you are complying with the emission standard using a control device. This notification and the site-specific test plan required under § 63.7(c)(2) must identify the operating parameter to be monitored to ensure that the capture efficiency measured during the performance test is maintained. You may consider the operating parameter identified in the site-specific test plan to be approved unless explicitly disapproved, or unless comments received from the Administrator require monitoring of an alternate parameter.

(d) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.9(h). You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 30 calendar days following the end of the initial 12-month compliance period described in § 63.5130.

(e) You must submit performance test reports as specified in § 63.10(d)(2) if you are using a control device to comply with the emission standards and you have not obtained a waiver from the performance test requirement.

(f) Before August 24, 2020, you must submit start-up, shutdown, and malfunction reports as specified in § 63.10(d)(5) if you use a control device to comply with this subpart.

(1) Before August 24, 2020, if your actions during a start-up, shutdown, or malfunction of an affected source (including actions taken to correct a malfunction) are not completely consistent with the procedures specified in the source's start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan specified in § 63.6 (e)(3) and required before August 24, 2020, you must state such information in the report. The start-up, shutdown, or malfunction report will consist of a letter containing the name, title, and signature of the responsible official who is certifying its accuracy, that will be submitted to the Administrator. Separate start-up, shutdown, or malfunction reports are not required if the information is included in the report specified in paragraph (g) of this section. The start-up, shutdown, and malfunction plan and start-up, shutdown, and malfunction report are no longer required on and after August 24, 2020.

(2) [Reserved]

(g) You must submit semi-annual compliance reports containing the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Compliance report dates.

(i) The first semiannual reporting period begins 1 day after the end of the initial compliance period described in § 63.5130(d) that applies to your affected source and ends 6 months later.

(ii) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the first semiannual reporting period and be postmarked or delivered no later than 30 days after the reporting period ends.

(iii) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(iv) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(v) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or part 71, and the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(2) The semi-annual compliance report must contain the following information:

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period. The reporting period is the 6-month period ending on June 30 or December 31. Note that the information reported for each of the 6 months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.

(iv) Identification of the compliance option or options specified in Table 1 to § 63.5170 that you used on each coating operation during the reporting period. If you switched between compliance options during the reporting period, you must report the beginning dates you used each option.

(v) A statement that there were no deviations from the applicable emission limit in § 63.5120 or the applicable operating limit(s) established according to § 63.5121 during the reporting period, and that no CEMS were inoperative, inactive, malfunctioning, out-of-control, repaired, or adjusted.

(h) You must submit, for each deviation occurring at an affected source where you are not using CEMS to comply with the standards in this subpart, the semi-annual compliance report containing the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section and the information in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(2) Before August 24, 2020, you must provide information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable) as applicable, and the corrective action taken. On and after August 24, 2020, you must provide information on the number, date, time, duration, and cause of deviations from an emission limit in § 63.5120 or any applicable operating limit established according to § 63.5121 (including unknown cause, if applicable) as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(3) Before August 24, 2020, you must provide information on the number, duration, and cause for continuous parameter monitoring system downtime incidents (including unknown cause other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks, if applicable). On and after August 24, 2020, you must provide the information specified in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Number, date, time, duration, cause (including unknown cause), and descriptions of corrective actions taken for continuous parameter monitoring systems that are inoperative (except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks).

(ii) Number, date, time, duration, cause (including unknown cause), and descriptions of corrective actions taken for continuous parameter monitoring systems that are out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7).

(4) On and after August 24, 2020, for each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.5120 or any applicable operating limit established according to § 63.5121, you must provide a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.5120, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the actions you took to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.5140(b).

(i) You must submit, for each deviation from the applicable emission limit in § 63.5120 or the applicable operation limit(s) established according to § 63.5121 occurring at an affected source where you are using CEMS to comply with the standards in this subpart, the semi-annual compliance report containing the information in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, and the information in paragraphs (i)(1) through (12) of this section:

(1) The date and time that each malfunction of the capture system or add-on control devices started and stopped.

(2) Before August 24, 2020, the date and time that each CEMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks. On and after August 24, 2020, for each instance that the CEMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks, the date, time, and duration that the CEMS was inoperative; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CEMS being inoperative; and a description of corrective actions taken.

(3) Before August 24, 2020, the date and time that each CEMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8). On and after August 24, 2020, for each instance that the CEMS was out-of-control, as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the date, time, and duration that the CEMS was out-of-control; the cause (including unknown cause) for the CEMS being out-of-control; and descriptions of corrective actions taken.

(4) Before August 24, 2020, the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period. On and after August 24, 2020, the date, time, and duration of each deviation from an emission limit in § 63.5120. For each deviation, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit in § 63.5120 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(6) Before August 24, 2020, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to start-up, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On and after August 24, 2020, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(7) A summary of the total duration of CEMS downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of CEMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(8) A breakdown of the total duration of CEMS downtime during the reporting period into periods that are due to monitoring equipment malfunctions, nonmonitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(9) Before August 24, 2020, a brief description of the metal coil coating line. On and after August 24, 2020, a list of the affected source or equipment, including a brief description of the metal coil coating line.

(10) The monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s).

(11) The date of the latest CEMS certification or audit.

(12) A description of any changes in CEMS, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.
