
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Surface Coating of Metal Coil
###### Reporting and Recordkeeping
####### § 63.5190 What records must I maintain?

(a) You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section in accordance with § 63.10(b)(1):

(1) Records of the coating lines on which you used each compliance option and the time periods (beginning and ending dates and times) you used each option.

(2) Records specified in § 63.10(b)(2) of all measurements needed to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, including:

(i) Continuous emission monitor data in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(2);

(ii) Control device and capture system operating parameter data in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(1), (3), and (4);

(iii) Organic HAP content data for the purpose of demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.5160(b);

(iv) Volatile matter and solids content data for the purpose of demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.5160(c);

(v) Overall control efficiency determination or alternative outlet HAP concentration using capture efficiency tests and control device destruction or removal efficiency tests in accordance with § 63.5160(d), (e), and (f); and

(vi) Material usage, HAP usage, volatile matter usage, and solids usage and compliance demonstrations using these data in accordance with § 63.5170(a), (b), and (d);

(3) Records specified in § 63.10(b)(3); and

(4) Additional records specified in § 63.10(c) for each continuous monitoring system operated by the owner or operator in accordance with § 63.5150(a)(2).

(5) On and after August 24, 2020, for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.5180(h) or (i), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.

(i) The date, time, and duration of the deviation, as reported under § 63.5180(h) and (i).

(ii) A list of the affected sources or equipment for which the deviation occurred and the cause of the deviation, as reported under § 63.5180(h) and (i).

(iii) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any applicable emission limit in § 63.5120 to this subpart or any applicable operating limit established according to § 63.5121 to this subpart, and a description of the method used to calculate the estimate, as reported under § 63.5180(h) and (i).

(iv) A record of actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.5140(b) and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(b) Maintain records of all liquid-liquid material balances that are performed in accordance with the requirements of § 63.5170.

(c) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are in reports that were submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
