
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.5295 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) If you startup your affected source before February 27, 2002, then you must comply with the emission standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than February 27, 2002.

(2) If you startup your affected source after February 27, 2002, then you must comply with the emission standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the emission standards for existing sources no later than February 28, 2005.

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP and an affected source subject to this subpart, paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) An area source that meets the criteria of a new affected source, as specified at § 63.5290(d), or a reconstructed affected source, as specified at § 63.5290(e), must be in compliance with this subpart upon becoming a major source.

(2) An area source that meets the criteria of an existing affected source, as specified at § 63.5290(f), must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 3 years after it becomes a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.5415 and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission standards in this subpart.
