
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.5320 How does my affected major source comply with the HAP emission standards?

(a) All affected sources must be in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at all times.

(b) At all times, the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.

(c) You must perform all of the items listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section:

(1) Submit the necessary notifications in accordance with § 63.5415.

(2) Develop and implement a plan for demonstrating compliance in accordance with § 63.5325.

(3) Submit the necessary reports in accordance with § 63.5420.

(4) Keep a finish inventory log, as specified at § 63.5335(b), to record monthly the pounds of each type of finish applied for each leather product process operation and the mass fraction of HAP in each applied finish. You may be required to start recordkeeping prior to the compliance dates specified at § 63.5295.

(5) Keep an inventory log, as specified at § 63.5430(f), to record monthly the surface area of leather processed in 1,000's of square feet for each product process operation. You may be required to start recordkeeping prior to the compliance dates specified at § 63.5295.

(6) Determine the actual HAP loss from your affected source in accordance with § 63.5335.

(7) Determine the allowable HAP loss for your affected source in accordance with § 63.5340.

(8) Determine the compliance ratio for your affected source each month as specified at § 63.5330. The compliance ratio compares your actual HAP loss to your allowable HAP loss for the previous 12 months.

(9) Maintain the compliance ratio for your affected source at or below 1.00 in accordance with § 63.5330.

(10) Maintain all the necessary records you have used to demonstrate compliance with this subpart in accordance with § 63.5430.
