
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5325 What is a plan for demonstrating compliance and when must I have one in place?

(a) You must develop and implement a written plan for demonstrating compliance that provides the detailed procedures you will follow to monitor and record data necessary for demonstrating compliance with this subpart. Procedures followed for quantifying HAP loss from the source and amount of leather processed vary from source to source because of site-specific factors such as equipment design characteristics and operating conditions. Typical procedures include one or more accurate measurement methods such as weigh scales and volumetric displacement. Because the industry does not have a uniform set of procedures, you must develop and implement your own site-specific plan for demonstrating compliance not later than the compliance date for your source. You must also incorporate the plan for demonstrating compliance by reference in the source's title V permit. The plan for demonstrating compliance must include the items listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation.

(3) Provide a detailed description of all methods of measurement your source will use to determine your finish usage, HAP content of each finish, quantity of leather processed, and leather product process operation type.

(4) Specify when each measurement will be made.

(5) Provide examples of each calculation you will use to determine your compliance status. Include examples of how you will convert data measured with one parameter to other terms for use in compliance determination.

(6) Provide example logs of how data will be recorded.

(7) Provide a quality assurance/quality control plan to ensure that the data continue to meet compliance demonstration needs.

(b) You may be required to revise your plan for demonstrating compliance. We may require reasonable revisions if the procedures lack detail, are inconsistent, or do not accurately determine finish usage, HAP content of each finish, quantity of leather processed, or leather product process operation type.
