
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5385 How do I measure the quantity of finish applied to the leather?

(a) To determine the amount of finish applied to the leather, you must measure the mass, or density, and volume of each applied finish.

(b) Determine the mass of each applied finish with a scale calibrated to an accuracy of at least 5 percent of the amount measured. The quantity of all finishes used for finishing operations must be weighed or have a predetermined weight.

(c) Determine the density and volume of each applied finish according to the criteria listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Determine the density of each applied finish in pounds per gallon in accordance with ยง 63.5395. The finish density will be used to convert applied finish volumes from gallons into mass units of pounds.

(2) Volume measurements of each applied finish can be obtained with a flow measurement device. For each flow measurement device, you must perform the items listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section:

(i) Locate the flow sensor and other necessary equipment such as straightening vanes in or as close to a position that provides a representative flow.

(ii) Use a flow sensor with a minimum tolerance of 2 percent of the flow rate.

(iii) Reduce swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.

(iv) Conduct a flow sensor calibration check at least semiannually.

(v) At least monthly, inspect all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage.

(3) Volume measurements of each applied finish can be obtained with a calibrated volumetric container with an accuracy of at least 5 percent of the amount measured.
