
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.5415 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) In accordance with §§ 63.7(b) and (c) and 63.9(b) and (h) of the General Provisions, you must submit the one-time notifications listed in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your affected source before February 27, 2002, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than June 27, 2002, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) In the Initial Notification, include the items in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation.

(3) Identification of the relevant standard, such as the Leather Finishing Operations NESHAP, and compliance date.

(4) A brief description of the source including the types of leather product process operations and nominal operating capacity.

(d) As specified in § 63.9(b)(1) and (2), if you startup your new or reconstructed affected source on or after February 27, 2002, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.

(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Intent to Conduct a Performance Test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(f) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status report not later than 60 calendar days after determining your initial 12-month compliance ratio. The notification of compliance status must contain the items in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation.

(3) Each type of leather product process operation performed during the previous 12 months.

(4) Each HAP identified under § 63.5390 in finishes applied during the 12-month period used for the initial compliance determination.

(5) A compliance status certification indicating whether the source complied with all of the requirements of this subpart throughout the 12-month period used for the initial source compliance determination. This certification must include the items in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) The plan for demonstrating compliance, as described in § 63.5325, is complete and available on site for inspection.

(ii) You are following the procedures described in the plan for demonstrating compliance.

(iii) The compliance ratio value was determined to be less than or equal to 1.00, or the value was determined to be greater than 1.00.

(g) If your source becomes a major source on or after February 27, 2002, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart.
