
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5390 How do I measure the HAP content of a finish?

(a) To determine the HAP content of a finish, the reference method is EPA Method 311 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 63. You may use EPA Method 311, an alternative method approved by the Administrator, or any other reasonable means for determining the HAP content. Other reasonable means of determining HAP content include, but are not limited to, a material safety data sheet (MSDS) or a manufacturer's hazardous air pollutant data sheet. If the HAP content is provided on a MSDS or a manufacturer's data sheet as a range of values, then the highest HAP value of the range must be used for the determination of compliance to this standard. This value must be entered on the finish log for each type of finish applied. You are not required to test the materials that you use, but the Administrator may require a test using EPA Method 311 (or another approved method) to confirm the reported HAP content. However, if the results of an analysis by EPA Method 311 are different from the HAP content determined by another means, the EPA Method 311 results will govern compliance determinations.

(b) You may use the weighted average of the HAP content analysis as determined in paragraph (a) of this section for each finish when you perform one of the actions listed in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) Mix your own finishes on site.

(2) Mix new quantities of finish with previous quantities of finish that may have a different HAP content.
