
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.5420 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit the first annual compliance status certification 12 months after you submit the Notification of Compliance Status. Each subsequent annual compliance status certification is due 12 months after the previous annual compliance status certification. The annual compliance status certification provides the compliance status for each month during the 12-month period ending 60 days prior to the date on which the report is due. Include the information in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section in the annual certification:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation.

(3) Each type of leather product process operation performed during the 12-month period covered by the report.

(4) Each HAP identified under § 63.5390, in finishes applied during the 12-month period covered by the report.

(5) A compliance status certification indicating whether the source complied with all of the requirements of this subpart throughout the 12-month period covered by the report. This certification must include the items in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) You are following the procedures described in the plan for demonstrating compliance.

(ii) The compliance ratio value was determined to be less than or equal to 1.00, or the value was determined to be greater than 1.00.

(b) You must submit a Deviation Notification Report for each compliance determination you make in which the compliance ratio exceeds 1.00, as determined under § 63.5330. Submit the deviation report by the fifteenth of the following month in which you determined the deviation from the compliance ratio. The Deviation Notification Report must include the items in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section:

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator.

(2) The physical address of the leather finishing operation.

(3) The 12-month period covered by the report and each type of leather product process operation performed during the 12-month period.

(4) The compliance ratio comprising the deviation. You may reduce the frequency of submittal of the Deviation Notification Report if the Administrator of these NESHAP approves an alternative schedule.

(5) An estimate of the quantity of HAP (in pounds) emitted during the 12 months specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in excess of the allowable HAP loss. Calculate this estimate of excess emissions by subtracting the allowable HAP loss determined as specified in § 63.5340 from the actual HAP loss determined as specified in § 63.5335.

(6) The cause of the events that resulted in the source failing to meet an applicable standard (including unknown cause, if applicable).

(c) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
