
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Leather Finishing Operations
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.5430 What records must I keep?

You must satisfy the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 63.5295.

(a) You must keep the plan for demonstrating compliance as required at § 63.5325 onsite and readily available as long as the source is operational. If you make any changes to the plan for demonstrating compliance, then you must keep all previous versions of the plan and make them readily available for inspection for at least 5 years after each revision.

(b) You must keep a copy of each notification and report that you are required to submit in accordance with this subpart.

(c) You must keep records of performance tests in accordance with this subpart.

(d) You must record and maintain a continuous log of finish usage as specified at § 63.5335(b).

(e) You must maintain all necessary records to document the methods you used and the results of all HAP content measurements of each applied finish.

(f) For each leather product process operation, you must maintain a monthly log of the items listed in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) Dates for each leather product process operation.

(2) Total surface area of leather processed for each leather product process operation.

(g) If you use an emission control device, you must keep records of monitoring data as specified at § 63.982(a)(2) (subpart SS of this part).

(h) In the event that the compliance ratio exceeded 1.00, as determined under § 63.5330, keep a record of the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section for each exceedance.

(1) The 12-month period in which the exceedance occurred, as reported in § 63.5420(b).

(2) Each type of leather product process operation performed during the 12-month period in which the exceedance occurred, as reported in § 63.5420(b).

(3) Estimate of the quantity of HAP (in pounds) emitted during the 12 months specified in § 63.5420(b)(3) in excess of the allowable HAP loss, as reported in § 63.5420(b).

(4) Cause of the events that resulted in the source failing to meet an applicable standard (including unknown cause, if applicable), as reported in § 63.5420(b).

(5) Actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.5320(b), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(i) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
