
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.5495 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, then you must comply with this subpart according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source before June 11, 2002, then you must comply with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than June 11, 2002.

(2) If you start up your affected source after June 11, 2002, then you must comply with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, then you must comply with this subpart according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Cellulose food casing, cellulosic sponge, cellophane, and cellulose ether operations must comply with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards for existing sources in this subpart no later than June 13, 2005.

(2) Rayon operations must comply with this subpart according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Rayon operations must comply with the 35 percent reduction emission limit and associated operating limits and work practice standards for existing sources in this subpart no later than June 13, 2005.

(ii) Rayon operations must comply with the work practice standard for carbon disulfide unloading and storage operations for existing sources in this subpart no later than June 13, 2005.

(iii) Rayon operations must comply with the 40 percent reduction emission limit and associated operating limits and work practice standards for existing sources in this subpart no later than June 11, 2010.

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit so that it becomes a major source of HAP and an affected source subject to this subpart, then the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) An area source that meets the criteria of a new affected source, as specified in § 63.5490(d), or a reconstructed affected source, as specified in § 63.5490(e), must be in compliance with this subpart upon becoming a major source.

(2) An area source that meets the criteria of an existing affected source, as specified in § 63.5490(f), must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 3 years after it becomes a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.5575 and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart.

(e) For the purposes of this subpart, the compliance dates in this section supersede the compliance dates in subparts F, G, H, U and UU of this part.
