
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.5490 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source for the Miscellaneous Viscose Processes and Cellulose Ethers Production source categories.

(b) The affected source for the Miscellaneous Viscose Processes source category is each cellulose food casing, rayon, cellulosic sponge, or cellophane operation, as defined in § 63.5610. The affected source for the Cellulose Ethers Production source category is each cellulose ether operation, as defined in § 63.5610.

(c) You must consider storage vessels to be part of your process unit, as defined in § 63.5610, under either of the conditions described in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. Otherwise, you may assign your storage vessels according to paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section.

(1) The input to the storage vessel from your viscose process or cellulose ether process (either directly or through other storage vessels assigned to your process unit) is greater than or equal to the input from any other process.

(2) The output from the storage vessel to your viscose process or cellulose ether process (either directly or through other storage vessels assigned to your process unit) is greater than or equal to the output to any other process.

(3) If the greatest input to and/or output from a shared storage vessel is the same for two or more processes, including at least one viscose process or cellulose ether process, you may assign the storage vessel to any process unit that has the greatest input or output.

(4) If the use varies from year to year, then you must base the determination on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding June 11, 2002 or, if the storage vessel was not operating during that year, you must base the use on the expected use for the first 5-year period after startup. You must include this determination in the Notification of Compliance Status Report specified in Table 7 to this subpart.

(d) An affected source is a new affected source if you began construction of the affected source after August 28, 2000 and you met the applicability criteria in § 63.5485 at the time you began construction.

(e) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in § 63.2.

(f) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.

(g) For the purposes of this subpart, the definitions of new and existing affected source in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section supersede the definitions of new and existing affected source in subparts F, G, H, U and UU of this part.
