
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.164 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source gasoline dispensing facilities in Indian country.
######## Emission limitations and standards.

(2)(i) The permittee shall install, maintain, and operate each affected emissions unit, including any associated air pollution control equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions of NSR regulated pollutants and considering the manufacturer's recommended operating procedures at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, maintenance and malfunction. The reviewing authority will determine whether the permittee is using acceptable operating and maintenance procedures based on information available to the reviewing authority which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, opacity observations, review of operating and maintenance procedures, and inspection of the permitted source.

(ii) GDFs located in an ozone attainment, unclassifiable or attainment/unclassifiable area or a marginal or moderate ozone nonattainment area shall limit throughput of gasoline to less than 25,000,000 gallons per year based on a 12-month rolling total.

(iii) GDFs located in a serious, severe or extreme ozone nonattainment area shall limit throughput of gasoline to less than 8,000,000 gallons per year based on a 12-month rolling total.

(iv) You must ensure gasoline is handled in a manner that will minimize vapor releases to the atmosphere. The measures to be taken include:

(A) Minimizing gasoline spills;

(B) Cleaning up spills as expeditiously as practicable. The spill bucket shall be free from standing liquid and debris;

(C) Covering all open gasoline containers and all gasoline storage tank fill-pipes with a gasketed seal when not in use (all portable gasoline containers that meet the requirements of 40 CFR part 59, subpart F meet this requirement);

(D) Minimizing gasoline sent to open waste collection systems that collect and transport gasoline to reclamation and recycling devices, such as oil/water separators; and

(E) To the extent practicable, any other actions necessary to minimize vapor releases to the atmosphere.

(v) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(2)(v)(B) of this section, you must only load gasoline into storage tanks at your facility by utilizing submerged filling, and as specified in this condition. The applicable distances shall be measured from the point in the opening of the submerged fill pipe that is the greatest distance from the bottom of the storage tank.

(A) Submerged fill pipes must be no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the tank.

(B) Submerged fill pipes not meeting the specifications paragraph (d)(2)(v)(A) of this section are allowed if the owner or operator can demonstrate that the liquid level in the tank is always above the entire opening of the fill pipe. Documentation providing such demonstration must be made available onsite for inspection by the reviewing authority.

(vi) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(viii) of this section, each new or modified gasoline storage tank constructed must be equipped with a Stage I dual-point vapor balance system.

(vii) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(viii) of this section, each Stage I dual-point vapor balance system on your gasoline storage tank must meet the design criteria and management practices in paragraph (e) of this section, as applicable.

(viii) The affected emissions units listed below are not required to comply with the control requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(vi) and (vii) of this section, but must comply with the requirements in paragraph (d)(2)(v) of this section.

(A) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons.

(B) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 2,000 gallons.

(C) Gasoline storage tanks equipped with floating roofs, or the equivalent.

(ix) Cargo tanks unloading at GDFs must not unload gasoline into a storage tank at a GDF unless the following management practices are met:

(A) All hoses in the vapor balance system are properly connected;

(B) The adapters or couplers that attach to the vapor line on the storage tank have closures that seal upon disconnect;

(C) All vapor return hoses, couplers, and adapters used in gasoline delivery are vapor-tight;

(D) All tank truck vapor return equipment is compatible in size and forms a vapor-tight connection with the vapor balance equipment on the GDF storage tank;

(E) All hatches on the tank truck are closed and securely fastened; and

(F) The filling of storage tanks at GDF shall be limited to unloading from vapor-tight gasoline cargo tanks.

(x) Each emergency engine shall:

(A) Be equipped with a non-resettable hour meter;

(B) If using fuel oil, use diesel or biodiesel containing no more than 15 ppm (0.0015 percent) sulfur;

(C) Meet the following certification requirement for compression ignition emergency engines: for model year 2006 and later engines, the engine shall be certified to the standards in 40 CFR part 89.

(D) Meet the following certification requirements for spark ignition emergency engines manufactured on or after January 1, 2009:

(1) Engines greater than 50 hp and less than 130 hp shall be certified to the Phase I standards in 40 CFR 90.103; and

(2) Engines greater than or equal to 130 hp shall be certified to the standards in 40 CFR 1048.

(E) If not required to be certified to the standards in paragraph (d)(2)(x)(C) or (D) of this section:
