
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Operating Limits, and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.5505 What emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards must I meet?

(a) You must meet each emission limit and work practice standard in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) You must meet each operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you.

(c) As provided in ยง 63.6(g), you may apply to EPA for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section.

(d) Opening of a safety device, as defined in ยง 63.5610, is allowed at any time that conditions require venting to avoid unsafe conditions.

(e) The emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart used to control emissions from storage vessels do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance. Periods of planned routine maintenance of each control device, during which the control device does not meet the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, must not exceed 240 hours per year.

(f) Carbon disulfide storage tanks part of a submerged unloading and storage operation subject to this part are not subject to 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb (Standards of Performance for Volatile Organic Liquid Storage Vessels (Including Petroleum Liquid Storage Vessels) for Which Construction, Reconstruction, or Modification Commenced After July 23, 1984).
