
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.5545 What are my monitoring installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) For each CMS required in this section, you must develop and make available for inspection by the permitting authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the provisions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Installation of the CMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device);

(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system; and

(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations).

(b) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address the provisions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(3) and (4)(ii), 63.5515(b), and 63.5580(c)(6);

(2) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d)(2); and

(3) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.10(c), (e)(1), (e)(2)(i) and 63.5585.

(c) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(d) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(e) For each continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Each CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable performance specification (PS) listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i) PS-7 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for CEMS used to measure hydrogen sulfide emissions;

(ii) PS-8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for CEMS used to measure volatile organic compound emissions;

(iii) PS-9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for CEMS that use gas chromatography to measure organic HAP emissions; and

(iv) PS-15 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, for CEMS that use Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy to measure organic HAP emissions.

(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8, Procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, and according to the applicable performance specification listed in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(ii), each CEMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

(4) The CEMS data must be reduced to operating data averages computed using valid data from at least 75 percent of the hours during the averaging period. To have a valid hour of data, you must have four or more data points equally spaced over the 1-hour period (or at least two data points during an hour when calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed), except as specified in paragraph (e)(5) of this section.

(5) The CEMS data taken during periods in which the control devices are not functioning in controlling emissions, as indicated by periods of no flow for all or a portion of an affected source, must not be considered in the averages.

(6) Determine the daily average of all recorded readings for each operating day during the semiannual reporting period described in Table 8 to this subpart.

(f) For each continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) Satisfy all requirements of performance specifications for CPMS upon promulgation of such performance specifications.

(2) Satisfy all requirements of quality assurance (QA) procedures for CPMS upon promulgation of such QA procedures.

(3) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.

(4) To calculate a valid hourly average, there must be at least four equally spaced values for that hour, excluding data collected during the periods described in paragraph (f)(6) of this section.

(5) Have valid hourly data for at least 75 percent of the hours during the averaging period.

(6) The CPMS data taken during periods in which the control devices are not functioning in controlling emissions, as indicated by periods of no flow for all or a portion of an affected source, must not be considered in the averages.

(7) Calculate a daily average using all of the valid hourly averages for each operating day during the semiannual reporting period.

(8) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.

(9) Except for redundant sensors, any device that is used to conduct an initial validation or accuracy audit of a CPMS must meet the accuracy requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(9)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The device must have an accuracy that is traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.

(ii) The device must be at least three times as accurate as the required accuracy for the CPMS.

(g) If flow to a control device could be intermittent, you must install, calibrate, and operate a flow indicator at the inlet or outlet of the control device to identify periods of no flow.
