
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.5515 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) On or before December 29, 2020, for each existing source (and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before September 9, 2019), you must be in compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. After December 29, 2020, for each existing source (and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before September 9, 2019), you must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart at all times. For new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after September 9, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart at all times on July 2, 2020, or immediately upon startup, whichever is later.

(b) On or before December 29, 2020, for each existing source (and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before September 9, 2019), you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). After December 29. 2020, for each existing source (and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before September 9, 2019), and after September 9, 2019, for new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after September 9, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions at least to the levels required by this subpart. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(1) During the period, if any, between the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.5495 and the date upon which continuous monitoring systems (CMS) have been installed and validated and any applicable operating limits have been set, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of any control technique used to comply with this subpart.

(2) [Reserved]

(c) On or before December 29 2020, for each existing source (and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before September 9, 2019), you must maintain a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction (SSM) plan according the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). For each such source, a SSM plan is not required after December 29, 2020. No SSM plan is required for any new or reconstruction source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after September 9, 2019.

(d) After you treat a wastewater stream according to the provisions of subparts F and G of this part, it is no longer subject to this subpart.

(e) If you use a boiler or process heater to comply with an emission limit or work practice standard in Table 1 to this subpart, then the vent stream must be introduced into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

(f) You are not required to conduct a performance test when you use any of the units specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section to comply with the applicable emission limit or work practice standard in table 1 to this subpart. You are also exempt from the continuous compliance, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements specified in tables 5 through 9 to this subpart for any of these units. This exemption applies to units used as control devices or wastewater treatment units.

(1) A boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of 44 megawatts or greater;

(2) A boiler or process heater into which the vent stream is introduced with the primary fuel or is used as the primary fuel;

(3) A boiler or process heater burning hazardous waste that meets the requirements in paragraph (f)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The boiler or process heater has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H; or

(ii) The boiler or process heater has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.

(4) A hazardous waste incinerator that has been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and that complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 264, subpart O, or that has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 265, subpart O.

(5) A control device for which a performance test was conducted for determining compliance with a rule promulgated by EPA and the test was conducted using the same test methods specified in Table 4 to this subpart and either you have made no deliberate process changes since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(g) For purposes of meeting any of the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you may use either a single control technique or any combination of control techniques, as defined in § 63.5610.

(h) You must be in compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part, except as noted in Table 10 to this subpart.
