
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5555 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit, operating limit, and work practice standard in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart that applies to you according to methods specified in Tables 5 and 6 to this subpart.

(b) You must report each instance in which you were not in continuous compliance (as specified in Tables 5 and 6 to this subpart) with each emission limit, each operating limit, and each work practice standard that apply to you. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. These instances are deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in ยง 63.5580.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) For each affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction before September 9, 2019, on or before December 29, 2020, deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with ยง 63.5515(b). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur on or before December 29, 2020, and during a period you identify as a startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in ยง 63.5515(b). This section no longer applies after December 30, 2020. For new sources that commence construction or reconstruction after September 9, 2019, this section does not apply.
