
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.5610 What definitions apply to this subpart?

(a) For all affected sources complying with the batch process vent testing provisions in § 63.490(c) and the operating limit provisions in § 63.505(c), the terms used in this subpart and in subpart U of this part are defined in § 63.482 and paragraph (g) of this section.

(b) For all affected sources complying with the closed-vent system and bypass line requirements in § 63.148, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart G of this part are defined in § 63.111 and paragraph (g) of this section.

(c) For all affected sources complying with the heat exchanger system requirements in § 63.104, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart F of this part are defined in § 63.101 and paragraph (g) of this section.

(d) For cellulose ether affected sources complying with the maintenance wastewater, process wastewater, and liquid stream in open system requirements of subparts F and G of this part, the terms used in this subpart and in subparts F and G of this part are defined in §§ 63.101 and 63.111 and paragraph (g) of this section.

(e) For cellulose ether affected sources complying with the equipment leak requirements of subpart H of this part, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart H of this part are defined in § 63.161 and paragraph (g) of this section.

(f) For cellulose ether affected sources complying with the equipment leak requirements of subpart UU of this part, the terms used in this subpart and in subpart UU of this part are defined in § 63.1020 and paragraph (g) of this section.

(g) All other terms used in this subpart have the meaning given them in § 63.2 and this paragraph (g). If a term is defined in § 63.2, § 63.101, § 63.111, § 63.161, or § 63.1020 and in this paragraph (g), the definition in this paragraph (g) applies for purposes of this subpart.
