
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Cellulose Products Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.5590 In what form and how long must I keep my records?

(a) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to ยง 63.10(b)(1).

(b) As specified in ยง 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.

(c) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to ยง 63.10(b)(1). You can keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.

(d) You may keep records in hard copy or computer-readable form including, but not limited to, paper, microfilm, computer, floppy disk, magnetic tape, or microfiche.

(e) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
