
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.164 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source gasoline dispensing facilities in Indian country.
######## Monitoring and testing requirements.

(3)(i) For each vapor balance system, the permittee shall perform an initial performance test as prescribed in paragraph (e) of this section and every 3 years thereafter. The performance test shall be conducted within 60 days after achieving the maximum production rate at which the permitted source will operate the affected vapor balance system, but not later than 180 days after the first day of operation after the reviewing authority receives the completed Notification of Coverage.

(ii) The permittee shall monitor monthly gasoline throughput in gallons.

(iii) The permittee shall perform weekly inspections of the vapor control recovery system(s), all pumps, compressors, pipes, hoses, mechanical seals, or other equipment storing, handling, conveying, or controlling VOCs. For sources located in extreme ozone nonattainment areas, these equipment inspections shall be performed daily. The inspections shall be used to determine whether all equipment is in good working order according to any available manufacturer's recommendations and good engineering practices.
