
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.164 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source gasoline dispensing facilities in Indian country.
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(4)(i) The permittee shall maintain all records required to be kept onsite by this permit by rule for at least 5 years from the date of origin, unless otherwise stated.

(ii) The Notification of Coverage and all documentation supporting that application shall be maintained by the permittee for the duration of time the affected emissions unit(s) is covered under this permit by rule.

(iii) The permittee shall maintain records of each inspection required by paragraph (d)(3)(iii) of this section. The records shall include a log of:

(A) Identification of the devices inspected;

(B) The date of the inspection;

(C) The results of each inspection;

(D) Any corrective actions taken as a result of the inspection; and

(E) The results of any corrective actions taken.

(iv) For each emergency engine, the permittee shall maintain a log of all maintenance activities conducted and a log of the hours of operation including the date, time, duration, and reason for use.

(v) The permittee shall maintain records on a monthly basis of the fuel throughput and the 12-month rolling total. The 12-month rolling total is defined as the sum of the fuel throughput during the current month and the fuel throughput for the previous 11 months.

(vi) The results of each performance test conducted pursuant to ยง 49.164(d)(3)(i) shall be recorded. At a minimum, the permittee shall maintain records of:

(A) The date of each test;

(B) Each test plan;

(C) Any documentation required to approve an alternate test method;

(D) Test conditions;

(E) The results of each test; and

(F) The name of the company or entity conducting the analysis.
