
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### What the Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.5686 How do I demonstrate that my facility is not a major source?
######## Material consumption option.

(b)This option can be used if you manufacture either fiberglass boats or aluminum recreational boats at your facility. You must meet the criteria in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section and comply with the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If you initially rely on the limits and criteria specified in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section to become an area source, but then exceed the relevant limit (without first obtaining and complying with other limits that keep your potential to emit HAP below major source levels), your facility will then become a major source, and you must comply with all applicable provisions of this subpart beginning on the compliance date specified in ยง 63.5695. Nothing in this paragraph is intended to preclude you from limiting your facility's potential to emit through other federally enforceable mechanisms available through your permitting authority.

(1) If your facility is primarily a fiberglass boat manufacturing facility, you must demonstrate that you consume less than 45.4 megagrams per rolling 12-month period of all combined polyester-and vinylester-based resins and gel coats (including tooling and production resins and gel coats, and clear gel coats), and you must demonstrate that at least 90 percent of total annual HAP emissions at the facility (including emissions from aluminum recreational boat manufacturing or other source categories) originate from the fiberglass boat manufacturing materials.

(2) If your facility is primarily an aluminum recreational boat manufacturing facility, you must demonstrate that it consumes less than 18.2 megagrams per rolling 12-month period of all combined surface coatings, aluminum wipedown solvents, application gun cleaning solvents, and carpet and fabric adhesives; and you must demonstrate that at least 90 percent of total annual HAP emissions at the facility (including emissions from fiberglass boat manufacturing or other source categories) originate from the aluminum recreational boat manufacturing materials.

(3) If your facility is a fiberglass boat or an aluminum recreational boat manufacturing facility, you must demonstrate that the boat manufacturing materials consumed per rolling 12-month period contain a total of less than 4.6 megagrams of any single HAP and less than 11.4 megagrams of all combined HAP, and you must demonstrate that at least 90 percent of total annual HAP emissions at the facility (including emissions from other source categories) originate from these boat manufacturing materials.

(c) If you use the material consumption option described in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that you are not a major source, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) If your facility has HAP emissions that do not originate from boat manufacturing operations or materials described in paragraph (b), then you must keep any records necessary to demonstrate that the 90 percent criterion is met.

(2) A rolling 12-month period includes the previous 12 months of operation. You must maintain records of the total amount of materials described in paragraph (b) of this section used each month, and, if necessary, the HAP content of each material and the calculation of the total HAP consumed each month. Because records are needed for a 12-month period, you must keep records beginning no later than 12 months before the compliance date specified in ยง 63.5695. Records must be kept for 5 years after they are created.

(3) In determining whether the 90 percent criterion included in paragraph (b) of this section is met, you do not need to include materials used in routine janitorial, building, or facility grounds maintenance; personal uses by employees or other persons; or products used for maintaining motor vehicles operated by the facility.
