
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### What the Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.5683 Does this subpart apply to me?

(a) This subpart applies to you if you meet both of the criteria listed in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You are the owner or operator of a boat manufacturing facility that builds fiberglass boats or aluminum recreational boats.

(2) Your boat manufacturing facility is a major source of HAP either in and of itself, or because it is collocated with other sources of HAP, such that all sources combined constitute a major source.

(b) A boat manufacturing facility is a facility that manufactures hulls or decks of boats from fiberglass or aluminum, or assembles boats from premanufactured hulls and decks, or builds molds to make fiberglass hulls or decks. A facility that manufactures only parts of boats (such as hatches, seats, or lockers) or boat trailers is not considered a boat manufacturing facility for the purpose of this subpart.

(c) A major source is any stationary source or group of stationary sources located within a contiguous area and under common control that emits or can potentially emit, considering controls, in the aggregate, 9.1 megagrams (10 tons) or more per year of a single HAP or 22.7 megagrams (25 tons) or more per year of a combination of HAP.

(d) This subpart does not apply to aluminum coating operations on aluminum boats intended for commercial or military (nonrecreational) use, antifoulant coatings, assembly adhesives, fiberglass hull and deck coatings, research and development activities, mold sealing and release agents, mold stripping and cleaning solvents, and wood coatings as defined in ยง 63.5779. This subpart does not apply to materials contained in handheld aerosol cans.
