
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Open Molding Resin and Gel Coat Operations
####### § 63.5704 What are the general requirements for complying with the open molding emission limit?
######## Compliant materials option.

(b)For each open molding operation complying using the compliant materials option, you must demonstrate compliance by performing the steps in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Use the methods specified in § 63.5758 to determine the organic HAP content of resins and gel coats.

(2) Complete the calculations described in § 63.5713 to show that the weighted-average organic HAP content does not exceed the limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(3) Keep records as specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section for each resin and gel coat.

(i) Hazardous air pollutant content.

(ii) Application method for production resin and tooling resin. This record is not required if all production resins and tooling resins are applied with nonatomized technology.

(iii) Amount of material used per month. This record is not required for an operation if all materials used for that operation comply with the organic HAP content requirements.

(iv) Calculations performed, if required, to demonstrate compliance based on weighted-average organic HAP content as described in § 63.5713.

(4) Submit semiannual compliance reports to the Administrator as specified in § 63.5764.
