
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Open Molding Resin and Gel Coat Operations
####### § 63.5704 What are the general requirements for complying with the open molding emission limit?
######## Emissions averaging option.

(a)For those open molding operations and materials complying using the emissions averaging option, you must demonstrate compliance by performing the steps in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Use the methods specified in § 63.5758 to determine the organic HAP content of resins and gel coats.

(2) Complete the calculations described in § 63.5710 to show that the organic HAP emissions do not exceed the limit specified in § 63.5698.

(3) Keep records as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section for each resin and gel coat.

(i) Hazardous air pollutant content.

(ii) Amount of material used per month.

(iii) Application method used for production resin and tooling resin. This record is not required if all production resins and tooling resins are applied with nonatomized technology.

(iv) Calculations performed to demonstrate compliance based on MACT model point values, as described in § 63.5710.

(4) Prepare and submit the implementation plan described in § 63.5707 to the Administrator and keep it up to date.

(5) Submit semiannual compliance reports to the Administrator as specified in § 63.5764.
