
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Open Molding Resin and Gel Coat Operations
####### § 63.5707 What is an implementation plan for open molding operations and when do I need to prepare one?

(a) You must prepare an implementation plan for all open molding operations for which you comply by using the emissions averaging option described in § 63.5704(a).

(b) The implementation plan must describe the steps you will take to bring the open molding operations covered by this subpart into compliance. For each operation included in the emissions average, your implementation plan must include the elements listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A description of each operation included in the average.

(2) The maximum organic HAP content of the materials used, the application method used (if any atomized resin application methods are used in the average), and any other methods used to control emissions.

(3) Calculations showing that the operations covered by the plan will comply with the open molding emission limit specified in § 63.5698.

(c) You must submit the implementation plan to the Administrator with the notification of compliance status specified in § 63.5761.

(d) You must keep the implementation plan on site and provide it to the Administrator when asked.

(e) If you revise the implementation plan, you must submit the revised plan with your next semiannual compliance report specified in § 63.5764.
