
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Open Molding Resin and Gel Coat Operations
####### ยง 63.5698 What emission limit must I meet for open molding resin and gel coat operations?

(a) You must limit organic HAP emissions from the five open molding operations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to the emission limit specified in paragraph (b) of this section. Operations listed in paragraph (d) are exempt from this limit.

(1) Production resin.

(2) Pigmented gel coat.

(3) Clear gel coat.

(4) Tooling resin.

(5) Tooling gel coat.

(b) You must limit organic HAP emissions from open molding operations to the limit specified by equation 1 of this section, based on a 12-month rolling average.

(c) The open molding emission limit is the same for both new and existing sources.

(d) The materials specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section are exempt from the open molding emission limit specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) Production resins (including skin coat resins) that must meet specifications for use in military vessels or must be approved by the U.S. Coast Guard for use in the construction of lifeboats, rescue boats, and other life-saving appliances approved under 46 CFR subchapter Q or the construction of small passenger vessels regulated by 46 CFR subchapter T. Production resins for which this exemption is used must be applied with nonatomizing (non-spray) resin application equipment. You must keep a record of the resins for which you are using this exemption.

(2) Pigmented, clear, and tooling gel coat used for part or mold repair and touch up. The total gel coat materials included in this exemption must not exceed 1 percent by weight of all gel coat used at your facility on a 12-month rolling-average basis. You must keep a record of the amount of gel coats used per month for which you are using this exemption and copies of calculations showing that the exempt amount does not exceed 1 percent of all gel coat used.

(3) Pure, 100 percent vinylester resin used for skin coats. This exemption does not apply to blends of vinylester and polyester resins used for skin coats. The total resin materials included in the exemption cannot exceed 5 percent by weight of all resin used at your facility on a 12-month rolling-average basis. You must keep a record of the amount of 100 percent vinylester skin coat resin used per month that is eligible for this exemption and copies of calculations showing that the exempt amount does not exceed 5 percent of all resin used.
