
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Demonstrating Compliance for Open Molding Operations Controlled by Add-On Control Devices
####### ยง 63.5725 What are the requirements for monitoring and demonstrating continuous compliance?

(a) You must establish control device parameters that indicate proper operation of the control device.

(b) You must install, operate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) The continuous parameter monitoring system must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. You must have a minimum of four successive cycles of operation to have a valid hour of data.

(2) You must have valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours during which the process operated.

(3) You must determine the average of all recorded readings for each successive 3-hour period of the emission capture system and add-on control device operation.

(4) You must maintain the continuous parameter monitoring system at all times and have available necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.

(5) You must operate the continuous parameter monitoring system and collect emission capture system and add-on control device parameter data at all times that a controlled open molding operation is being performed, except during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, if applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments).

(6) You must not use emission capture system or add-on control device parameter data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, or required quality assurance or control activities when calculating data averages. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in calculating the data averages for determining compliance with the emission capture system and add-on control device operating limits.

(7) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.

(8) Any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control, as defined in ยง 63.7(d)(7), or malfunctioning, and data are not available for required calculations is a deviation from the monitoring requirements. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the continuous parameter monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.
