
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Open Molding Resin and Gel Coat Operations
####### § 63.5713 How do I demonstrate compliance using compliant materials?

(a) Compliance using the organic HAP content requirements listed in Table 2 to this subpart is based on a 12-month rolling average that is calculated at the end of every month. The first 12-month rolling-average period begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.5695. If you are using filled material (production resin or tooling resin), you must comply according to the procedure described in § 63.5714.

(b) At the end of the twelfth month after your compliance date and at the end of every subsequent month, review the organic HAP contents of the resins and gel coats used in the past 12 months in each operation. If all resins and gel coats used in an operation have organic HAP contents no greater than the applicable organic HAP content limits in Table 2 to this subpart, then you are in compliance with the emission limit specified in § 63.5698 for that 12-month period for that operation. In addition, you do not need to complete the weighted-average organic HAP content calculation contained in paragraph (c) of this section for that operation.

(c) At the end of every month, you must use equation 1 of this section to calculate the weighted-average organic HAP content for all resins and gel coats used in each operation in the past 12 months.

(d) If the weighted-average organic HAP content does not exceed the applicable organic HAP content limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart, then you are in compliance with the emission limit specified in § 63.5698.
