
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Demonstrating Compliance for Open Molding Operations Controlled by Add-On Control Devices
####### ยง 63.5725 What are the requirements for monitoring and demonstrating continuous compliance?
######## Thermal oxidizers.

(d)If you are using a thermal oxidizer or incinerator as an add-on control device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) You must install a combustion temperature monitoring device in the firebox of the thermal oxidizer or incinerator, or in the duct immediately downstream of the firebox before any substantial heat exchange occurs. You must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (d)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section for each temperature monitoring device.

(i) Locate the temperature sensor in a position that provides a representative temperature.

(ii) Use a temperature sensor with a minimum tolerance of 2.2 &#xB0;C or 0.75 percent of the temperature value, whichever is larger.

(iii) Shield the temperature sensor system from electromagnetic interference and chemical contaminants.

(iv) If a chart recorder is used, it must have a sensitivity in the minor division of at least 10 &#xB0;C.

(v) Perform an electronic calibration at least semiannually according to the procedures in the manufacturer's owners manual. Following the electronic calibration, you must conduct a temperature sensor validation check in which a second or redundant temperature sensor placed nearby the process temperature sensor must yield a reading within 16.7 &#xB0;C of the process temperature sensor's reading.

(vi) Conduct calibration and validation checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range or install a new temperature sensor.

(vii) At least monthly, inspect all components for integrity and all electrical connections for continuity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.

(2) Before or during the performance test, you must conduct a performance evaluation of the combustion temperature monitoring system according to ยง 63.8(e). Section 63.8(e) specifies the general requirements for continuous monitoring systems and requirements for notifications, the site-specific performance evaluation plan, conduct of the performance evaluation, and reporting of performance evaluation results.

(3) During the performance test required by ยง 63.5716, you must monitor and record the combustion temperature and determine the average combustion temperature for the three 1-hour test runs. This average temperature is the minimum operating limit for the thermal oxidizer.

(4) Following the performance test, you must continuously monitor the combustion temperature and record the average combustion temperature no less frequently than every 15 minutes.

(5) You must operate the incinerator or thermal oxidizer so that the average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period does not fall below the average combustion temperature recorded during the performance test.

(6) If the average combustion temperature in any 3-hour period falls below the average combustion temperature recorded during the performance test, or if you fail to collect the minimum data specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, it is a deviation for the operating limit in ยง 63.5715.
