
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Demonstrating Compliance for Open Molding Operations Controlled by Add-On Control Devices
####### § 63.5725 What are the requirements for monitoring and demonstrating continuous compliance?
######## Emission capture system.

(f)For each enclosure in the emission capture system, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You must install a device to measure and record either the flow rate or the static pressure in the duct from each enclosure to the add-on control device.

(2) You must install a device to measure and record the pressure drop across at least one opening in each enclosure.

(3) Each flow measurement device must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (f)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Locate the flow sensor in a position that provides a representative flow measurement in the duct between each enclosure in the emission capture system and the add-on control device.

(ii) Reduce swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.

(iii) Conduct a flow sensor calibration check at least semiannually.

(iv) At least monthly, inspect all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage.

(4) For each pressure measurement device, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (f)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Locate each pressure drop sensor in or as close to a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure drop across each enclosure opening you are monitoring.

(ii) Locate each duct static pressure sensor in a position that provides a representative measurement of the static pressure in the duct between the enclosure and control device.

(iii) Minimize or eliminate pulsating pressure, vibration, and internal and external corrosion.

(iv) Check the pressure tap for plugging daily.

(v) Use an inclined manometer with a measurement sensitivity of 0.0004 millimeters mercury (mmHg) to check gauge calibration quarterly and transducer calibration monthly.

(vi) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.

(vii) At least monthly, inspect all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage.

(5) For each capture device that is not part of a permanent total enclosure as defined in Method 204 in appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, you must establish an operating limit for either the gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure, as specified in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section. You must also establish an operating limit for pressure drop across at least one opening in each enclosure according to paragraphs (f)(5)(iii) and (iv) of this section. The operating limits for a permanent total enclosure are specified in Table 4 to this subpart.

(i) During the emission test required by § 63.5716 and described in § 63.5719, you must monitor and record either the gas volumetric flow rate or the duct static pressure for each separate enclosure in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs at a point in the duct between the enclosure and the add-on control device inlet.

(ii) Following the emission test, calculate and record the average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure for the three test runs for each enclosure. This average gas volumetric flow rate or duct static pressure is the minimum operating limit for that specific enclosure.

(iii) During the emission test required by § 63.5716 and described in § 63.5719, you must monitor and record the pressure drop across the opening of each enclosure in your emission capture system at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.

(iv) Following the emission test, calculate and record the average pressure drop for the three test runs for each enclosure. This average pressure drop is the minimum operating limit for that specific enclosure.
