
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Aluminum Recreational Boat Surface Coating Operations
####### ยง 63.5746 How do I demonstrate compliance with the emission limits for aluminum wipedown solvents and aluminum coatings?
######## Approval of alternative means of demonstrating compliance.

(g)You may apply to the Administrator for permission to use an alternative means (such as an add-on control system) of limiting emissions from aluminum wipedown solvent and coating operations and demonstrating compliance with the emission limits in ยง 63.5743(a).

(1) The application must include the information listed in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) An engineering evaluation that compares the emissions using the alternative means to the emissions that would result from using the strategy specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section. The engineering evaluation may include the results from an emission test that accurately measures the capture efficiency and control device efficiency achieved by the control system and the composition of the associated coatings so that the emissions comparison can be made.

(ii) A proposed monitoring protocol that includes operating parameter values to be monitored for compliance and an explanation of how the operating parameter values will be established through a performance test.

(iii) Details of appropriate recordkeeping and reporting procedures.

(2) The Administrator will approve the alternative means of limiting emissions if the Administrator determines that HAP emissions will be no greater than if the source uses the procedures described in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section to demonstrate compliance.

(3) The Administrator's approval may specify operation, maintenance, and monitoring requirements to ensure that emissions from the regulated operations are no greater than those that would otherwise result from regulated operations in compliance with this subpart.
