
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Aluminum Recreational Boat Surface Coating Operations
####### § 63.5746 How do I demonstrate compliance with the emission limits for aluminum wipedown solvents and aluminum coatings?

To demonstrate compliance with the emission limits for aluminum wipedown solvents and aluminum coatings specified in § 63.5743(a), you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.

(a) Determine and record the organic HAP content (kilograms of organic HAP per kilogram of material, or weight fraction) of each aluminum wipedown solvent and aluminum coating (including primers, topcoats, clear coats, thinners, and activators). Use the methods in § 63.5758 to determine organic HAP content.

(b) Use the methods in § 63.5758(b) to determine the solids content (liters of solids per liter of coating, or volume fraction) of each aluminum surface coating, including primers, topcoats, and clear coats. Keep records of the solids content.

(c) Use the methods in § 63.5758(c) to determine the density of each aluminum surface coating and wipedown solvent.

(d) Compliance is based on a 12-month rolling average calculated at the end of every month. The first 12-month rolling-average period begins on the compliance date specified in § 63.5695.

(e) At the end of the twelfth month after your compliance date and at the end of every subsequent month, use the procedures in § 63.5749 to calculate the organic HAP from aluminum wipedown solvents per liter of coating solids, and use the procedures in § 63.5752 to calculate the kilograms of organic HAP from aluminum coatings per liter of coating solids.

(f) Keep records of the calculations used to determine compliance.
