
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Aluminum Recreational Boat Surface Coating Operations
####### ยง 63.5755 How do I demonstrate compliance with the aluminum recreational boat surface coating spray gun cleaning work practice standards?

You must demonstrate compliance with the aluminum coating spray gun cleaning work practice standards by meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(a) Demonstrate that solvents used to clean the aluminum coating spray guns contain no more than 5 percent organic HAP by weight by determining organic HAP content with the methods in ยง 63.5758. Keep records of the organic HAP content determination.

(b) For solvents containing more than 5 percent organic HAP by weight, comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2), and paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) If you are using an enclosed spray gun cleaner, visually inspect it at least once per month to ensure that covers are in place and the covers have no visible gaps when the cleaner is not in use, and that there are no leaks from hoses or fittings.

(2) If you are manually cleaning the gun or spraying solvent into a container that can be closed, visually inspect all solvent containers at least once per month to ensure that the containers have covers and the covers fit with no visible gaps.

(3) Keep records of the monthly inspections and any repairs that are made to the enclosed gun cleaners or the covers.
