
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Methods for Determining Hazardous Air Pollutant Content
####### ยง 63.5758 How do I determine the organic HAP content of materials?
######## Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63).

(1)You may use Method 311 for determining the mass fraction of organic HAP. Use the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section when determining organic HAP content by Method 311.

(i) Include in the organic HAP total each organic HAP that is measured to be present at 0.1 percent by mass or more for Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)-defined carcinogens as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not an OSHA carcinogen) is measured to be 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not need to include it in the organic HAP total. Express the mass fraction of each organic HAP you measure as a value truncated to four places after the decimal point (for example, 0.1234).

(ii) Calculate the total organic HAP content in the test material by adding up the individual organic HAP contents and truncating the result to three places after the decimal point (for example, 0.123).
