
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Standards for Aluminum Recreational Boat Surface Coating Operations
####### ยง 63.5743 What standards must I meet for aluminum recreational boat surface coating operations?

(a) For aluminum wipedown solvent operations and aluminum surface coating operations, you must comply with either the separate emission limits in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, or the combined emission limit in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Compliance with these limitations is based on a 12-month rolling average that is calculated at the end of every month.

(1) You must limit emissions from aluminum wipedown solvents to no more than 0.33 kilograms of organic HAP per liter of total coating solids applied from aluminum primers, clear coats, and top coats combined. No limit applies when cleaning surfaces are receiving decals or adhesive graphics.

(2) You must limit emissions from aluminum recreational boat surface coatings (including thinners, activators, primers, topcoats, and clear coats) to no more than 1.22 kilograms of organic HAP per liter of total coating solids applied from aluminum primers, clear coats, and top coats combined.

(3) You must limit emissions from the combined aluminum surface coatings and aluminum wipedown solvents to no more than 1.55 kilograms of organic HAP per liter of total coating solids applied from aluminum primers, clear coats, and top coats combined.

(b) You must comply with the work practice standard in paragraph (b)(1), (2), (3), or (4) of this section when cleaning aluminum coating spray guns with solvents containing more than 5 percent organic HAP by weight.

(1) Clean spray guns in an enclosed device. Keep the device closed except when you place spray guns in or remove them from the device.

(2) Disassemble the spray gun and manually clean the components in a vat. Keep the vat closed when you are not using it.

(3) Clean spray guns by placing solvent in the pressure pot and forcing the solvent through the gun. Do not use atomizing air during this procedure. Direct the used cleaning solvent from the spray gun into a container that you keep closed when you are not using it.

(4) An alternative gun cleaning process or technology approved by the Administrator according to the procedures in ยง 63.6(g).
