
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Methods for Determining Hazardous Air Pollutant Content
####### ยง 63.5758 How do I determine the organic HAP content of materials?
######## Information from the supplier or manufacturer of the material.

(5)You may rely on information other than that generated by the test methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section, such as manufacturer's formulation data, according to paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Include in the organic HAP total each organic HAP that is present at 0.1 percent by mass or more for OSHA-defined carcinogens as specified in 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4) and at 1.0 percent by mass or more for other compounds. For example, if toluene (not an OSHA carcinogen) is 0.5 percent of the material by mass, you do not have to include it in the organic HAP total.

(ii) If the organic HAP content is provided by the material supplier or manufacturer as a range, then you must use the upper limit of the range for determining compliance. If a separate measurement of the total organic HAP content using the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section exceeds the upper limit of the range of the total organic HAP content provided by the material supplier or manufacturer, then you must use the measured organic HAP content to determine compliance.

(iii) If the organic HAP content is provided as a single value, you may assume the value is a manufacturing target value and actual organic HAP content may vary from the target value. If a separate measurement of the total organic HAP content using the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section is less than 2 percentage points higher than the value for total organic HAP content provided by the material supplier or manufacturer, then you may use the provided value to demonstrate compliance. If the measured total organic HAP content exceeds the provided value by 2 percentage points or more, then you must use the measured organic HAP content to determine compliance.
