
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.5767 What records must I keep?

You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section in addition to records specified in individual sections of this subpart.

(a) You must keep a copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart.

(b) You must keep all documentation supporting any notification or report that you submitted.

(c) If your facility is not controlled by an add-on control device (i.e., you are complying with organic HAP content limits, application equipment requirements, or MACT model point value averaging provisions), you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The total amounts of open molding production resin, pigmented gel coat, clear gel coat, tooling resin, and tooling gel coat used per month and the weighted-average organic HAP contents for each operation, expressed as weight-percent. For open molding production resin and tooling resin, you must also record the amounts of each applied by atomized and nonatomized methods.

(2) The total amount of each aluminum coating used per month (including primers, top coats, clear coats, thinners, and activators) and the weighted-average organic HAP content as determined in ยง 63.5752.

(3) The total amount of each aluminum wipedown solvent used per month and the weighted-average organic HAP content as determined in ยง 63.5749.

(d) If your facility has an add-on control device, you must keep the records of any failures to meet the applicable standards, including the date, time, and duration of the failure; a list of the affected add-on control device and actions taken to minimize emissions, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions; control device performance tests; and continuous monitoring system performance evaluations.
