
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Other Information You Need To Know
####### § 63.5776 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) If the Administrator has delegated authority to your State or local agency, the State or local agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State or local agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities that are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State or local agency are listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Under § 63.6(g), the authority to approve alternatives to the standards listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section is not delegated.

(i) § 63.5698-Emission limit for open molding resin and gel coat operations.

(ii) § 63.5728-Standards for closed molding resin operations.

(iii) § 63.5731(a)-Standards for resin and gel coat mixing operations.

(iv) § 63.5734-Standards for resin and gel coat application equipment cleaning operations.

(v) § 63.5740(a)-Emission limit for carpet and fabric adhesive operations.

(vi) § 63.5743-Standards for aluminum recreational boat surface coating operations.

(vii) § 63.5746(g)-Approval of alternative means of demonstrating compliance with the emission limits for aluminum recreational boat surface coating operations.

(2) Under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f), the authority to approve alternatives to the test methods listed in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section is not delegated.

(i) § 63.5719(b)-Method for determining whether an enclosure is a total enclosure.

(ii) § 63.5719(c)-Methods for measuring emissions from a control device.

(iii) § 63.5725(d)(1)-Performance specifications for thermal oxidizer combustion temperature monitors.

(iv) § 63.5758-Method for determining hazardous air pollutant content of regulated materials.

(3) Under § 63.8(f), the authority to approve major alternatives to the monitoring requirements listed in § 63.5725 is not delegated. A "major alternative" is defined in § 63.90.

(4) Under § 63.10(f), the authority to approve major alternatives to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements listed in §§ 63.5764, 63.5767, and 63.5770 is not delegated. A "major alternative" is defined in § 63.90.
