
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Boat Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.5764 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit the applicable reports specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. To the extent possible, you must organize each report according to the operations covered by this subpart and the compliance procedure followed for that operation.

(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report by the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) If your source is not controlled by an add-on control device (i.e., you are complying with organic HAP content limits, application equipment requirements, or MACT model point value averaging provisions), the first compliance report must cover the period beginning 12 months after the compliance date specified for your source in § 63.5695 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first 12-month period after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.5695. If your source is controlled by an add-on control device, the first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date specified for your source in § 63.5695 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.5695.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than 60 calendar days after the end of the compliance reporting period specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the applicable semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than 60 calendar days after the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(c) The compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report.

(3) The date of the report and the beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) A description of any changes in the manufacturing process since the last compliance report.

(5) A statement or table showing, for each regulated operation, the applicable organic HAP content limit, application equipment requirement, or MACT model point value averaging provision with which you are complying. The statement or table must also show the actual weighted-average organic HAP content or weighted-average MACT model point value (if applicable) for each operation during each of the rolling 12-month averaging periods that end during the reporting period.

(6) If you were in compliance with the emission limits and work practice standards during the reporting period, you must include a statement to that effect.

(7) If you deviated from an emission limit or work practice standard during the reporting period, you must also include the information listed in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (iv) of this section in the semiannual compliance report.

(i) A description of the operation involved in the deviation.

(ii) The quantity, organic HAP content, and application method (if relevant) of the materials involved in the deviation.

(iii) A description of any corrective action you took to minimize the deviation and actions you have taken to prevent it from happening again.

(iv) A statement of whether or not your facility was in compliance for the 12-month averaging period that ended at the end of the reporting period.

(d) If your facility has an add-on control device, you must submit semiannual compliance reports and quarterly excess emission reports as specified in § 63.10(e). The contents of the reports are specified in § 63.10(e).
