
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Minor New Source Review Program in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.164 Air quality permit by rule for new or modified true minor source gasoline dispensing facilities in Indian country.
######## Vapor balance system design criteria, management practices, and performance testing.

(e)(1) Design criteria and management practices for each vapor balance system:

(i) All vapor connections and lines on the storage tank(s) shall be equipped with closures that seal upon disconnect.

(ii) The vapor line from the gasoline storage tank to the gasoline cargo tank shall be vapor-tight.

(iii) The vapor balance system shall be designed such that the pressure in the tank truck does not exceed 18 inches water pressure or 5.9 inches water vacuum during product transfer.

(iv) The vapor recovery and product adaptors, and the method of connection with the delivery elbow, shall be designed so as to prevent the over-tightening or loosening of fittings during normal delivery operations.

(v) If a gauge well separate from the fill tube is used, it shall be provided with a submerged drop tube that extends no more than 6 inches from the bottom of the storage tank.

(vi) Liquid fill connections for all systems shall be equipped with vapor-tight caps.

(vii) Pressure/vacuum (PV) vent valves shall be installed on the storage tank vent pipes. The pressure specifications for PV vent valves shall be: a positive pressure setting of 2.5 to 6.0 inches of water and a negative pressure setting of 6.0 to 10.0 inches of water. The total leak rate of all PV vent valves at an affected facility, including connections, shall not exceed 0.17 cubic foot per hour at a pressure of 2.0 inches of water and 0.63 cubic foot per hour at a vacuum of 4 inches of water.

(viii) The vapor balance system shall be capable of meeting the static pressure performance requirement of the following equation: Pf = 2e, where: Pf = minimum allowable final pressure, inches of water, v = total ullage affected by the test, gallons, e = dimensionless constant equal to approximately 2.718, 2 = the initial pressure, inches water.

(ix) For aboveground storage tanks (ASTs) with a capacity greater than 250 gallons and located at a GDF in a serious, severe, or extreme ozone nonattainment area the permittee shall also:

(A) Limit standing loss emissions to less than or equal to 0.57 lbs VOC per 1,000 gallons ullage per day (lbs/1,000 gallons/day), for newly installed tanks.

(B) Limit standing loss emissions to less than or equal to 2.26 lbs VOC per 1,000 gallons ullage per day (lbs/1,000 gallons/day), for modified or reconstructed tanks.

(2) Vapor balance system performance testing:

(i) The permittee shall conduct performance testing to demonstrate compliance with the leak rate and cracking pressure requirements, specified in paragraph (e)(1)(vii) of this section, for pressure-vacuum vent valves installed on your gasoline storage tanks as follows:

(A) According to a test plan submitted at least 30 days in advance of the test date to the reviewing authority; and

(B) Using California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.1E,-Leak Rate and Cracking Pressure of Pressure/Vacuum Vent Valves, adopted October 8, 2003 (see 40 CFR 63.14).

(ii) The permittee shall conduct performance testing to demonstrate compliance with the static pressure performance requirement, specified in paragraph (e)(1)(viii) of this section, for each vapor balance system by conducting a static pressure test on each gasoline storage tank as follows:

(A) According to a test plan submitted at least 30 days in advance of the test date to the reviewing authority;

(B) Using California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.3,-Determination of 2-Inch WC Static Pressure Performance of Vapor Recovery Systems of Dispensing Facilities, adopted April 12, 1996, and amended March 17, 1999 (see 40 CFR 63.14) or Bay Area Air Quality Management District Source Test Procedure ST-30-Static Pressure Integrity Test-Underground Storage Tanks, adopted November 30, 1983, and amended December 21, 1994 (see 40 CFR 63.14); and

(iii) For ASTs subject to ยง 49.164(e)(1)(ix), the ASTs shall be California Air Resources Board certified AST for Standing Loss Control per Vapor Recovery Test Procedures TP-206.1 or TP-206.2.
