
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.5785 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a reinforced plastic composites production facility that is located at a major source of HAP emissions. Reinforced plastic composites production is limited to operations in which reinforced and/or nonreinforced plastic composites or plastic molding compounds are manufactured using thermoset resins and/or gel coats that contain styrene to produce plastic composites. The resins and gel coats may also contain materials designed to enhance the chemical, physical, and/or thermal properties of the product. Reinforced plastic composites production also includes cleaning, mixing, HAP-containing materials storage, and repair operations associated with the production of plastic composites.

(b) You are not subject to this subpart if your facility only repairs reinforced plastic composites. Repair includes the non-routine manufacture of individual components or parts intended to repair a larger item as defined in ยง 63.5935

(c) You are not subject to this subpart if your facility is a research and development facility as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(d) You are not subject to this subpart if your reinforced plastic composites operations use less than 1.2 tons per year (tpy) of thermoset resins and gel coats that contain styrene combined.
