
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Options for Meeting Standards
####### ยง 63.5810 What are my options for meeting the standards for open molding and centrifugal casting operations at new and existing sources?
######## Demonstrate that, on average, you meet the individual organic HAP emissions limits for each combination of operation type and resin application method or gel coat type.

(b)Demonstrate that on average you meet the individual organic HAP emissions limits for each unique combination of operation type and resin application method or gel coat type shown in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you.

(1)(i) Group the process streams described in paragraph (a) to this section by operation type and resin application method or gel coat type listed in Table 3 to this subpart and then calculate a weighted average emission factor based on the amounts of each individual resin or gel coat used for the last 12 months. To do this, sum the product of each individual organic HAP emissions factor calculated in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and the amount of neat resin plus and neat gel coat plus usage that corresponds to the individual factors and divide the numerator by the total amount of neat resin plus and neat gel coat plus used in that operation type as shown in Equation 2 of this section.

(ii) You may, but are not required to, include process streams where you have demonstrated compliance as described in paragraph (a) of this section, subject to the limitations described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, and you are not required to and should not include process streams for which you will demonstrate compliance using the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Compare each organic HAP emissions factor calculated in paragraph (b)(1) of this section with its corresponding organic HAP emissions limit in Table 3 or 5 to this subpart. If all emissions factors are equal to or less than their corresponding emission limits, then you are in compliance.
