
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Options for Meeting Standards
####### ยง 63.5810 What are my options for meeting the standards for open molding and centrifugal casting operations at new and existing sources?
######## Demonstrate that an individual resin or gel coat, as applied, meets the applicable emission limit in Table 3 or 5 to this subpart.

(a)(1) Calculate your actual organic HAP emissions factor for each different process stream within each operation type. A process stream is defined as each individual combination of resin or gel coat, application technique, and control technique. Process streams within operations types are considered different from each other if any of the following four characteristics vary: the neat resin plus or neat gel coat plus organic HAP content, the gel coat type, the application technique, or the control technique. You must calculate organic HAP emissions factors for each different process stream by using the appropriate equations in Table 1 to this subpart for open molding and for centrifugal casting, or site-specific organic HAP emissions factors discussed in ยง 63.5796. The emission factor calculation should include any and all emission reduction techniques used including any add-on controls. If you are using vapor suppressants to reduce HAP emissions, you must determine the vapor suppressant effectiveness (VSE) by conducting testing according to the procedures specified in appendix A to subpart WWWW of 40 CFR part 63. If you are using an add-on control device to reduce HAP emissions, you must determine the add-on control factor by conducting capture and control efficiency testing using the procedures specified in ยง 63.5850. The organic HAP emissions factor calculated from the equations in Table 1 to this subpart, or a site-specific emissions factor, is multiplied by the add-on control factor to calculate the organic HAP emissions factor after control. Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the add-on control factor used in the organic HAP emissions factor equations.

(2) If the calculated emission factor is less than or equal to the appropriate emission limit, you have demonstrated that this process stream complies with the emission limit in Table 3 to this subpart. It is not necessary that all your process streams, considered individually, demonstrate compliance to use this option for some process streams. However, for any individual resin or gel coat you use, if any of the process streams that include that resin or gel coat are to be used in any averaging calculations described in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, then all process streams using that individual resin or gel coat must be included in the averaging calculations.
