
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Options for Meeting Standards
####### ยง 63.5810 What are my options for meeting the standards for open molding and centrifugal casting operations at new and existing sources?
######## Meet the organic HAP emissions limit for one application method and use the same resin(s) for all application methods of that resin type.

(d)This option is limited to resins of the same type. The resin types for which this option may be used are noncorrosion-resistant, corrosion-resistant and/or high strength, and tooling.

(1) For any combination of manual resin application, mechanical resin application, filament application, or centrifugal casting, you may elect to meet the organic HAP emissions limit for any one of these application methods and use the same resin in all of the resin application methods listed in this paragraph (d)(1). Table 7 to this subpart presents the possible combinations based on a facility selecting the application process that results in the highest allowable organic HAP content resin. If the resin organic HAP content is below the applicable value shown in Table 7 to this subpart, the resin is in compliance.

(2) You may also use a weighted average organic HAP content for each application method described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section. Calculate the weighted average organic HAP content monthly. Use Equation 2 in paragraph (b)(1) of this section except substitute organic HAP content for organic HAP emissions factor. You are in compliance if the weighted average organic HAP content based on the last 12 months of resin use is less than or equal to the applicable organic HAP contents in Table 7 to this subpart.

(3) You may simultaneously use the averaging provisions in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section to demonstrate compliance for any operations and/or resins you do not include in your compliance demonstrations in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. However, any resins for which you claim compliance under the option in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section may not be included in any of the averaging calculations described in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.

(4) You do not have to keep records of resin use for any of the individual resins where you demonstrate compliance under the option in paragraph (d)(1) of this section unless you elect to include that resin in the averaging calculations described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
