
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Compliance Dates and Standards
####### § 63.5805 What standards must I meet to comply with this subpart?

You must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section that apply to you. You may elect to comply using any options to meet the standards described in §§ 63.5810 through 63.5830. Use the procedures in § 63.5799 to determine if you meet or exceed the 100 tpy threshold.

(a) If you have an existing facility that has any centrifugal casting or continuous casting/lamination operations, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section:

(1) If the combination of all centrifugal casting and continuous lamination/casting operations emit 100 tpy or more of HAP, you must reduce the total organic HAP emissions from centrifugal casting and continuous lamination/casting operations by at least 95 percent by weight. As an alternative to meeting the 95 percent by weight requirement, centrifugal casting operations may meet the applicable organic HAP emissions limits in Table 5 to this subpart and continuous lamination/casting operations may meet an organic HAP emissions limit of 1.47 lbs/ton of neat resin plus and neat gel coat plus applied. For centrifugal casting, the percent reduction requirement does not apply to organic HAP emissions that occur during resin application onto an open centrifugal casting mold using open molding application techniques.

(2) If the combination of all centrifugal casting and continuous lamination/casting operations emit less than 100 tpy of HAP, then centrifugal casting and continuous lamination/casting operations must meet the appropriate requirements in Table 3 to this subpart.

(b) All operations at existing facilities not listed in paragraph (a) of this section must meet the organic HAP emissions limits in Table 3 to this subpart and the work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart that apply, regardless of the quantity of HAP emitted.

(c) If you have a new facility that emits less than 100 tpy of HAP from the combination of all open molding, centrifugal casting, continuous lamination/casting, pultrusion, SMC manufacturing, mixing, and BMC manufacturing, you must meet the organic HAP emissions limits in Table 3 to this subpart and the work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart that apply to you.

(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, if you have a new facility that emits 100 tpy or more of HAP from the combination of all open molding, centrifugal casting, continuous lamination/casting, pultrusion, SMC manufacturing, mixing, and BMC manufacturing, you must reduce the total organic HAP emissions from these operations by at least 95 percent by weight and meet any applicable work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart that apply to you. As an alternative to meeting 95 percent by weight, you may meet the organic HAP emissions limits in Table 5 to this subpart. If you have a continuous lamination/casting operation, that operation may alternatively meet an organic HAP emissions limit of 1.47 lbs/ton of neat resin plus and neat gel coat plus applied.

(2)(i) If your new facility manufactures large reinforced plastic composites parts using open molding or pultrusion operations, the specific open molding and pultrusion operations used to produce large parts are not required to reduce HAP emissions by 95 weight percent, but must meet the emission limits in Table 3 to this subpart.

(ii) A large open molding part is defined as a part that, when the final finished part is enclosed in the smallest rectangular six-sided box into which the part can fit, the total interior volume of the box exceeds 250 cubic feet, or any interior sides of the box exceed 50 square feet.

(iii) A large pultruded part is a part that exceeds an outside perimeter of 24 inches or has more than 350 reinforcements.

(e) If you have a new or existing facility subject to paragraph (a)(2) or (c) of this section at its initial compliance date that subsequently meets or exceeds the 100 tpy threshold in any calendar year, you must notify your permitting authority in your compliance report. You may at the same time request a one-time exemption from the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) or (d) of this section in your compliance report if you can demonstrate all of the following:

(1) The exceedance of the threshold was due to circumstances that will not be repeated.

(2) The average annual organic HAP emissions from the potentially affected operations for the last 3 years were below 100 tpy.

(3) Projected organic HAP emissions for the next calendar year are below 100 tpy, based on projected resin and gel coat use and the HAP emission factors calculated according to the procedures in § 63.5799.

(f) If you apply for an exemption in paragraph (e) of this section and subsequently exceed the HAP emission thresholds specified in paragraph (a)(2) or (c) of this section over the next 12-month period, you must notify the permitting authority in your semiannual report, the exemption is removed, and your facility must comply with paragraph (a)(1) or (d) of this section within 3 years from the time your organic HAP emissions first exceeded the threshold.

(g) If you have repair operations subject to this subpart as defined in § 63.5785, these repair operations must meet the requirements in Tables 3 and 4 to this subpart and are not required to meet the 95 percent organic HAP emissions reduction requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (d) of this section.

(h) If you use an add-on control device to comply with this subpart, you must meet all requirements contained in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS.
