
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Calculating Organic HAP Emissions Factors for Open Molding and Centrifugal Casting
####### ยง 63.5799 How do I calculate my facility's organic HAP emissions on a tpy basis for purposes of determining which paragraphs of ยง 63.5805 apply?
######## Conduct performance testing.

(2)Conduct performance testing using the test procedures in ยง 63.5850 to determine a site-specific organic HAP emissions factor in units of lbs/ton of resin and gel coat used. Conduct the test under conditions expected to result in the highest possible organic HAP emissions. Multiply this factor by annual resin and gel coat use to determine annual organic HAP emissions. This calculation must be repeated and reported annually.

(c) Existing facilities must initially perform this calculation based on their 12 months of operation prior to April 21, 2003, and include this information with their initial notification report. Existing facilities must repeat the calculation based on their resin and gel coat use in the 12 months prior to their initial compliance date, and submit this information with their initial compliance report. After their initial compliance date, existing and new facilities must recalculate organic HAP emissions over the 12-month period ending June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following their compliance date specified in ยง 63.5800. Subsequent calculations should cover the periods in the semiannual compliance reports.
