
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Options for Meeting Standards
####### ยง 63.5830 What are my options for meeting the standards for pultrusion operations subject to the 60 weight percent organic HAP emissions reductions requirement?

You must use one or more of the options in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section to meet the 60 weight percent organic HAP emissions limit in Table 3 to this subpart, as required in ยง 63.5805.

(a) Achieve an overall reduction in organic HAP emissions of 60 weight percent by capturing the organic HAP emissions and venting them to a control device or any combination of control devices. Conduct capture and destruction efficiency testing as specified in 63.5850 to this subpart to determine the percent organic HAP emissions reduction.

(b) Design, install, and operate wet area enclosures and resin drip collection systems on pultrusion machines that meet the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) The enclosure must cover and enclose the open resin bath and the forming area in which reinforcements are pre-wet or wet-out and moving toward the die(s). The surfaces of the enclosure must be closed except for openings to allow material to enter and exit the enclosure.

(2) For open bath pultrusion machines with a radio frequency pre-heat unit, the enclosure must extend from the beginning of the resin bath to within 12.5 inches or less of the entrance of the radio frequency pre-heat unit. If the stock that is within 12.5 inches or less of the entrance to the radio frequency pre-heat unit has any drip, it must be enclosed. The stock exiting the radio frequency pre-heat unit is not required to be in an enclosure if the stock has no drip between the exit of the radio frequency pre-heat unit to within 0.5 inches of the entrance of the die.

(3) For open bath pultrusion machines without a radio frequency pre-heat unit, the enclosure must extend from the beginning of the resin bath to within 0.5 inches or less of the die entrance.

(4) For pultrusion lines with pre-wet area(s) prior to direct die injection, no more than 12.5 inches of open wet stock is permitted between the entrance of the first pre-wet area and the entrance to the die. If the pre-wet stock has any drip, it must be enclosed.

(5) The total open area of the enclosure must not exceed two times the cross sectional area of the puller window(s) and must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) All areas that are open need to be included in the total open area calculation with the exception of access panels, doors, and/or hatches that are part of the enclosure.

(ii) The area that is displaced by entering reinforcement or exiting product is considered open.

(iii) Areas that are covered by brush covers are considered closed.

(6) Open areas for level control devices, monitoring devices, agitation shafts, and fill hoses must have no more than 1.0 inch clearance.

(7) The access panels, doors, and/or hatches that are part of the enclosure must close tightly. Damaged access panels, doors, and/or hatches that do not close tightly must be replaced.

(8) The enclosure may not be removed from the pultrusion line, and access panels, doors, and/or hatches that are part of the enclosure must remain closed whenever resin is in the bath, except for the time period discussed in paragraph (b)(9) of this section.

(9) The maximum length of time the enclosure may be removed from the pultrusion line or the access panels, doors, and/or hatches and may be open, is 30 minutes per 8 hour shift, 45 minutes per 12 hour shift, or 90 minutes per day if the machine is operated for 24 hours in a day. The time restrictions do not apply if the open doors or panels do not cause the limit of two times the puller window area to be exceeded. Facilities may average the times that access panels, doors, and/or hatches are open across all operating lines. In that case the average must not exceed the times shown in this paragraph (b)(9). All lines included in the average must have operated the entire time period being averaged.

(10) No fans, blowers, and/or air lines may be allowed within the enclosure. The enclosure must not be ventilated.

(c) Use direct die injection pultrusion machines with resin drip collection systems that meet all the criteria specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) All the resin that is applied to the reinforcement is delivered directly to the die.

(2) No exposed resin is present, except at the face of the die.

(3) Resin drip is captured in a closed system and recycled back to the process.

(d) Use a preform injection system that meets the definition in ยง 63.5935

(e) Use any combination of options in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section in which different pultrusion lines comply with different options described in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, and

(1) Each individual pultrusion machine meets the 60 percent reduction requirement, or

(2) The weighted average reduction based on resin throughput of all machines combined is 60 percent. For purposes of the average percent reduction calculation, wet area enclosures reduce organic HAP emissions by 60 percent, and direct die injection and preform injection reduce organic HAP emissions by 90 percent.
