
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5850 How do I conduct performance tests, performance evaluations, and design evaluations?
######## www.asme.org/catalog

(5) Use the procedures in EPA Method 3B of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 to determine an oxygen correction factor if required by ยง 63.997(e)(2)(iii)(C). You may use American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME) PTC 19-10-1981-Part 10 (available for purchase from ASME, P.O. Box 2900, 22 Law Drive, Fairfield, New Jersey, 07007-2900, or online at) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60.

(f) The control device performance test must consist of three runs and each run must last at least 1 hour. The production conditions during the test runs must represent normal production conditions with respect to the types of parts being made and material application methods. The production conditions during the test must also represent maximum potential emissions with respect to the organic HAP content of the materials being applied and the material application rates.

(g) If you are using a concentrator/oxidizer control device, you must test the combined flow upstream of the concentrator, and the combined outlet flow from both the oxidizer and the concentrator to determine the overall control device efficiency. If the outlet flow from the concentrator and oxidizer are exhausted in separate stacks, you must test both stacks simultaneously with the inlet to the concentrator to determine the overall control device efficiency.

(h) During the test, you must also monitor and record separately the amounts of production resin, tooling resin, pigmented gel coat, clear gel coat, and tooling gel coat applied inside the enclosure that is vented to the control device.
