
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5870 How do I calculate annual uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions from my wet-out area(s) and from my oven(s) for continuous lamination/casting operations?

To calculate your annual uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions from your wet-out areas and from your ovens, you must develop uncontrolled and controlled wet-out area and uncontrolled and controlled oven organic HAP emissions estimation equations or factors to apply to each formula applied on each line, determine how much of each formula for each end product is applied each year on each line, and assign uncontrolled and controlled wet-out area and uncontrolled and controlled oven organic HAP emissions estimation equations or factors to each formula. You must determine the overall capture efficiency using the procedures in ยง 63.5850 to this subpart.

(a) To develop uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions estimation equations and factors, you must, at a minimum, do the following, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section:

(1) Identify each end product and the thickness of each end product produced on the line. Separate end products into the following end product groupings, as applicable: corrosion-resistant gel coated end products, noncorrosion-resistant gel coated end products, corrosion-resistant nongel coated end products, and noncorrosion-resistant nongel coated end products. This step creates end product/thickness combinations.

(2) Identify each formula used on the line to produce each end product/thickness combination. Identify the amount of each such formula applied per year. Rank each formula used to produce each end product/thickness combination according to usage within each end product/thickness combination.

(3) For each end product/thickness combination being produced, select the formula with the highest usage rate for testing.

(4) If not already selected, also select the worst-case formula (likely to be associated with the formula with the highest organic HAP content, type of HAP, application of gel coat, thin product, low line speed, higher resin table temperature) amongst all formulae. (You may use the results of the worst-case formula test for all formulae if desired to limit the amount of testing required.)

(5) For each formula selected for testing, conduct at least one test (consisting of three runs). During the test, track information on organic HAP content and type of HAP, end product thickness, line speed, and resin temperature on the wet-out area table.

(6) Using the test results, develop uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions estimation equations (or factors) or series of equations (or factors) that best fit the results for estimating uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions, taking into account the organic HAP content and type of HAP, end product thickness, line speed, and resin temperature on the wet-out area table.

(b) In lieu of using the method specified in paragraph (a) of this section for developing uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions estimation equations and factors, you may either method specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) For either uncontrolled or controlled organic HAP emissions estimates, you may use previously established, facility-specific organic HAP emissions equations or factors, provided they allow estimation of both wet-out area and oven organic HAP emissions, where necessary, and have been approved by your permitting authority. If a previously established equation or factor is specific to the wet-out area only, or to the oven only, then you must develop the corresponding uncontrolled or controlled equation or factor for the other organic HAP emissions source.

(2) For uncontrolled (controlled) organic HAP emissions estimates, you may use controlled (uncontrolled) organic HAP emissions estimates and control device destruction efficiency to calculate your uncontrolled (controlled) organic HAP emissions provided the control device destruction efficiency was calculated at the same time you collected the data to develop your facility's controlled (uncontrolled) organic HAP emissions estimation equations and factors.

(c) Assign to each formula an uncontrolled organic HAP emissions estimation equation or factor based on the end product/thickness combination for which that formula is used.

(d)(1) To calculate your annual uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from wet-out areas that do not have any capture and control and from wet-out areas that are captured by an enclosure but are vented to the atmosphere and not to a control device, multiply each formula's annual usage by its appropriate organic HAP emissions estimation equation or factor and sum the individual results.

(2) To calculate your annual uncontrolled organic HAP emissions that escape from the enclosure on the wet-out area, multiply each formula's annual usage by its appropriate uncontrolled organic HAP emissions estimation equation or factor, sum the individual results, and multiply the summation by 1 minus the percent capture (expressed as a fraction).

(3) To calculate your annual uncontrolled oven organic HAP emissions, multiply each formula's annual usage by its appropriate uncontrolled organic HAP emissions estimation equation or factor and sum the individual results.

(4) To calculate your annual controlled organic HAP emissions, multiply each formula's annual usage by its appropriate organic HAP emissions estimation equation or factor and sum the individual results to obtain total annual controlled organic HAP emissions.

(e) Where a facility is calculating both uncontrolled and controlled organic HAP emissions estimation equations and factors, you must test the same formulae. In addition, you must develop both sets of equations and factors from the same tests.
