
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.5910 What reports must I submit and when?
######## i.e.,

(e) For each deviation from an organic HAP emissions limitation (emissions limit and operating limit) occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with the organic HAP emissions limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.

(2) The date and time that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(3) The date, time, and duration that each CMS was out of control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(4) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(6) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(f) You must report if you have exceeded the 100 tpy organic HAP emissions threshold if that exceedance would make your facility subject to § 63.5805(a)(1) or (d). Include with this report any request for an exemption under § 63.5805(e). If you receive an exemption under § 63.5805(e) and subsequently exceed the 100 tpy organic HAP emissions threshold, you must report this exceedance as required in § 63.5805(f).

(g) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a compliance report pursuant to Table 14 to this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by § 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or § 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any organic HAP emissions limitation (including any operating limit) or work practice requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permitting authority.

(h) Submit compliance reports based on the requirements in §§ 63.5910 and 63.5912 and table 14 to this subpart, and not based on the requirements in § 63.999.

(i) Where multiple compliance options are available, you must state in your next compliance report if you have changed compliance options since your last compliance report.
