
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.5895 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate continuous compliance?

(a) During production, you must collect and keep a record of data as indicated in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, if you are using an add-on control device.

(b) You must monitor and collect data as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Except for monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must conduct all monitoring in continuous operation (or collect data at all required intervals) at all times that the affected source is operating.

(2) You may not use data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities for purposes to this subpart, including data averages and calculations, or fulfilling a minimum data availability requirement, if applicable. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.

(3) At all times, you must maintain necessary parts for routine repairs of the monitoring equipment.

(4) A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring equipment to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.

(c) You must collect and keep records of resin and gel coat use, organic HAP content, and operation where the resin is used if you are meeting any organic HAP emissions limits based on an organic HAP emissions limit in Tables 3 or 5 to this subpart. You must collect and keep records of resin and gel coat use, organic HAP content, and operation where the resin is used if you are meeting any organic HAP content limits in Table 7 to this subpart if you are averaging organic HAP contents. Resin use records may be based on purchase records if you can reasonably estimate how the resin is applied. The organic HAP content records may be based on MSDS or on resin specifications supplied by the resin supplier.

(d) Resin and gel coat use records are not required for the individual resins and gel coats that are demonstrated, as applied, to meet their applicable emission as defined in ยง 63.5810(a). However, you must retain the records of resin and gel coat organic HAP content, and you must include the list of these resins and gel coats and identify their application methods in your semiannual compliance reports. If after you have initially demonstrated that a specific combination of an individual resin or gel coat, application method, and controls meets its applicable emission limit, and the resin or gel coat changes or the organic HAP content increases, or you change the application method or controls, then you again must demonstrate that the individual resin or gel coat meets its emission limit as specified in paragraph (a) of ยง 63.5810. If any of the previously mentioned changes results in a situation where an individual resin or gel coat now exceeds its applicable emission limit in Table 3 or 5 of this subpart, you must begin collecting resin and gel coat use records and calculate compliance using one of the averaging options on a 12-month rolling average.

(e) For each of your pultrusion machines, you must record all times that wet area enclosures doors or covers are open and there is resin present in the resin bath.
