
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.5900 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each standard in § 63.5805 that applies to you according to the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Compliance with organic HAP emissions limits for sources using add-on control devices is demonstrated following the procedures in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS. Sources using add-on controls may also use continuous emissions monitors to demonstrate continuous compliance as an alternative to control parameter monitoring.

(2) Compliance with organic HAP emissions limits is demonstrated by maintaining an organic HAP emissions factor value less than or equal to the appropriate organic HAP emissions limit listed in Table 3 or 5 to this subpart, on a 12-month rolling average, and/or by including in each compliance report a statement that individual resins and gel coats, as applied, meet the appropriate organic HAP emissions limits, as discussed in § 63.5895(d).

(3) Compliance with organic HAP content limits in Table 7 to this subpart is demonstrated by maintaining an average organic HAP content value less than or equal to the appropriate organic HAP contents listed in Table 7 to this subpart, on a 12-month rolling average, and/or by including in each compliance report a statement that resins and gel coats individually meet the appropriate organic HAP content limits in Table 7 to this subpart, as discussed in § 63.5895(d).

(4) Compliance with the work practice standards in Table 4 to this subpart is demonstrated by performing the work practice required for your operation.

(b) You must report each deviation from each standard in § 63.5805 that applies to you. The deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.5910.

(c) You must meet the organic HAP emissions limits and work practice standards that apply to you at all times.
