
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.5915 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in ยง 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Records of performance tests, design, and performance evaluations as required in ยง 63.10(b)(2).

(b) If you use an add-on control device, you must keep all records required in 40 CFR part 63, subpart SS, to show continuous compliance with this subpart.

(c) You must keep all data, assumptions, and calculations used to determine organic HAP emissions factors or average organic HAP contents for operations listed in tables 3, 5, and 7 to this subpart.

(d) You must keep a certified statement that you are in compliance with the work practice requirements in Table 4 to this subpart, as applicable.

(e) For a new or existing continuous lamination/ casting operation, you must keep the records listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, when complying with the percent reduction and/or lbs/ton requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (c) through (d) of ยง 63.5805.

(1) You must keep all data, assumptions, and calculations used to determine percent reduction and/or lbs/ton as applicable;

(2) You must keep a brief description of the rationale for the assignment of an equation or factor to each formula;

(3) When using facility-specific organic HAP emissions estimation equations or factors, you must keep all data, assumptions, and calculations used to derive the organic HAP emissions estimation equations and factors and identification and rationale for the worst-case formula; and

(4) For all organic HAP emissions estimation equations and organic HAP emissions factors, you must keep documentation that the appropriate permitting authority has approved them.
