
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Major New Source Review Program for Nonattainment Areas in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.171 Public participation requirements.
######## What permit information will be publicly available?

(a)With the exception of any confidential information as defined in part 2, subpart B of this chapter, the reviewing authority must make available for public inspection the documents listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. The reviewing authority must make such information available for public inspection at the appropriate EPA Regional Office and in at least one location in the area affected by the source, such as the Tribal environmental office or a local library.

(1) All information submitted as part of your application for a permit.

(2) Any additional information requested by the reviewing authority.

(3) The reviewing authority's analysis of the application and any additional information submitted by you, including the LAER analysis and, where applicable, the analysis of your emissions reductions (offsets), your demonstration of a net air quality benefit in the affected area and your analysis of alternative sites, sizes, production processes and environmental control techniques.

(4) A copy of the draft permit or the decision to deny the permit with the justification for denial.
