
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart WWWW of Part 63 - Test Method for Determining Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness
####### Applicability.

1.1If a facility is using vapor suppressants to reduce hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions, the organic HAP emission factor equations in Table 1 to this subpart require that the vapor suppressant effectiveness factor be determined. The vapor suppressant effectiveness factor is then used as one of the inputs into the appropriate organic HAP emission factor equation. The vapor suppressant effectiveness factor test is not intended to quantify overall volatile emissions from a resin, nor to be used as a stand-alone test for emissions determination. This test is designed to evaluate the performance of film forming vapor suppressant resin additives. The results of this test are used only in combination with the organic HAP emissions factor equations in Table 1 to this subpart to generate emission factors.

1.1.1 The open molding process consists of application of resin and reinforcements to the mold surface, followed by a manual rollout process to consolidate the laminate, and the curing stage where the laminate surface is not disturbed. Emission studies have shown that approximately 50 percent to 55 percent of the emissions occur while the resin is being applied to the mold. Vapor suppressants have little effect during this portion of the lamination process, but can have a significant effect during the curing stage. Therefore, if a suppressant is 100 percent effective, the overall emissions from the process would be reduced by 45 percent to 50 percent, representing the emissions generated during the curing stage. In actual practice, vapor suppressant effectiveness will be less than 100 percent and the test results determine the specific effectiveness in terms of the vapor suppressant effectiveness factor. This factor represents the effectiveness of a specific combination of suppressant additive and resin formulation.

1.1.2 A resin manufacturer may supply a molder with a vapor-suppressed resin, and employ this test to provide the molder with the vapor suppressant effectiveness factor for that combination of resin and vapor suppressant. The factor qualifies the effectiveness of the vapor suppressant when the resin is tested in the specific formulation supplied to the molder. The addition of fillers or other diluents by the molder may impact the effectiveness of the vapor suppressant. The formulation, including resin/glass ratio and filler content, used in the test should be similar to the formulation to be used in production. The premise of this method is to compare laminate samples made with vapor suppressant additive and made without the additive. The difference in emissions between the two yields the vapor suppressant effectiveness factor.

1.1.3 The method uses a mass balance determination to establish the relative loss of the volatile component from unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resins, with and without vapor suppressant additives. The effectiveness of a specific vapor suppressant and resin mixture is determined by comparing the relative volatile weight losses from vapor suppressed and non-suppressed resins. The volatile species are not separately analyzed. While the species contained in the volatile component are not determined, an extended listing of potential monomer that may be contained in unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resins is provided in Table 1.1. However, most polyester and vinyl ester resin formulations presently used by the composites industry only contain styrene monomer.

2.1 Differences in specific resin and suppressant additive chemistry affect the performance of a vapor suppressant. The purpose of this method is to quantify the effectiveness of a specific combination of vapor suppressant and unsaturated polyester or vinyl ester resin as they are to be used in production. This comparative test quantifies the loss of volatiles from a fiberglass reinforced laminate during the roll-out and curing emission phases, for resins formulated with and without a suppressant additive. A criterion for this method is the testing of a non-vapor suppressed resin system and testing the same resin with a vapor suppressant. The two resins are as identical as possible with the exception of the addition of the suppressant to one. The exact formulation used for the test will be determined by the in-use production requirements. Each formulation of resin, glass, fillers, and additives is developed to meet particular customer and or performance specifications.

2.2 The result of this test is used as an input factor in the organic HAP emissions factor equations in Table 1 to this subpart, which allows these equations to predict emissions from a specific combination of resin and suppressant. This test does not provide an emission rate for the entire lamination process.

3.1 Definitions
