
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart C - General Federal Implementation Plan Provisions
###### Federal Major New Source Review Program for Nonattainment Areas in Indian Country
####### ยง 49.171 Public participation requirements.
######## How will the public be notified and participate?

(b)

(1) Before issuing a permit under this program, the reviewing authority must prepare a draft permit and must provide adequate public notice to ensure that the affected community and the general public have reasonable access to the application and draft permit information, as set out in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. The public notice must provide an opportunity for public comment and notice of a public hearing, if any, on the draft permit.

(i) The reviewing authority must mail a copy of the notice to you, the appropriate Indian governing body and the Tribal, state and local air pollution authorities having jurisdiction adjacent to the area of Indian country potentially impacted by the air pollution source.

(ii) Depending on such factors as the nature and size of your source, local air quality considerations and the characteristics of the population in the affected area (e.g., subsistence hunting and fishing or other seasonal cultural practices), the reviewing authority must use appropriate means of notification, such as those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) The reviewing authority may mail or e-mail a copy of the notice to persons on a mailing list developed by the reviewing authority consisting of those persons who have requested to be placed on such a mailing list.

(B) The reviewing authority may post the notice on its Web site.

(C) The reviewing authority may publish the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area affected by the source. Where possible, the notice may also be published in a Tribal newspaper or newsletter.

(D) The reviewing authority may provide copies of the notice for posting at one or more locations in the area affected by the source, such as Post Offices, trading posts, libraries, Tribal environmental offices, community centers or other gathering places in the community.

(E) The reviewing authority may employ other means of notification as appropriate.

(2) The notice required pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section must include the following information at a minimum:

(i) Identifying information, including your name and address (and plant name and address if different) and the name and telephone number of the plant manager/contact.

(ii) The name and address of the reviewing authority processing the permit action;

(iii) The regulated NSR pollutants to be emitted, the affected emissions units and the emission limitations for each affected emissions unit;

(iv) The emissions change involved in the permit action;

(v) Instructions for requesting a public hearing;

(vi) The name, address and telephone number of a contact person in the reviewing authority's office from whom additional information may be obtained;

(vii) Locations and times of availability of the information (listed in paragraph (a) of this section) for public inspection and

(viii) A statement that any person may submit written comments, a written request for a public hearing or both, on the draft permit action. The reviewing authority must provide a period of at least 30 days from the date of the public notice for comments and for requests for a public hearing.
