
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart WWWW of Part 63 - Test Method for Determining Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness
####### Initiator.

7.1The initiator type, brand, and concentration will be specified by resin manufacturer, or as required by production operation.

7.2 Polyester or vinyl ester resin.

7.3 Vapor suppressant additive.

This test method involves the immediate recording of data during the roll out and curing phases of the lamination process during each test run. Samples are neither collected, preserved, nor stored.

Careful attention to the prescribed test procedure, routing equipment calibration, and replicate testing are the quality control activities for this test method. Refer to the procedures in section 11. A minimum of six test runs of a resin system without a suppressant and six test runs of the same resin with a suppressant shall be performed for each resin and suppressant test combination.

10.1 The laboratory balances, stopwatch, hygrometer and thermometer shall be maintained in a state of calibration prior to testing and thereafter on a scheduled basis as determined by the testing laboratory. This shall be accomplished by using certified calibration standards.

10.2 Calibration records shall be maintained for a period of 3 years.

11.1 Test Set-up.

11.1.1 The laboratory balance is located in an enclosure to prevent fluctuations in balance readings due to localized air movement. The front of enclosure is open to permit work activity, but positioned so that local airflow will not effect balance readings. The ambient temperature is determined by suspending the thermometer at a point inside the enclosure.

11.1.2 The bottom of the aluminum pan is covered with the Mylar film. The film is held in position with tape or by friction between the pan and the film.

11.1.3 The resin and pan are brought to room temperature. This test temperature must be between 70 &#xB0;F and 80 &#xB0;F. The testing temperature cannot vary more than +/-2 &#xB0;F during the measurement of test runs. Temperature shall be recorded at the same time weight is recorded on suppressed and non-suppressed test data sheets, shown in Table 17.1.

11.1.4 The relative humidity may not change more than +/-15 percent during the test runs. This is determined by recording the relative humidity in the vicinity of the test chamber at the beginning and end of an individual test run. This data is recorded on the test data sheets shown in Table 17.1.
