
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart WWWW of Part 63 - Test Method for Determining Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness
####### e.g.

12.2.4 Filled resin formulation determination for filled resin systems (>30 percent filler by weight for a particulate filler, or >1 percent by weight for a lightweight filler, such as hollow microspheres):

12.2.5 Initiator weight determination:

12.2.6 Emission weight loss determination:

Emissions weight loss (g) = Initial resin weight (g)-Final resin weight (g)

12.2.7 % Emission weight loss:

12.2.8 Average % Emission Weight Loss (assuming six test runs):

12.2.9 VSE Factor calculation:

VSE Factor = 0.45

VSE Factor is used as input into the appropriate equation in Table 1 to this subpart.

Example from Table 1 to this subpart:

13.1 Bias:

The bias of this test method has not been determined.

13.2 Precision Testing

13.2.1 Subsequent to the initial development of this test protocol by the Composites Fabricators Association, a series of tests were conducted in three different laboratory facilities. The purpose of this round robin testing was to verify the precision of the test method in various laboratories. Each laboratory received a sample of an orthophthalic polyester resin from the same production batch, containing 48 per cent styrene by weight. Each testing site was also provided with the same vapor suppressant additive. The suppressant manufacturer specified the percentage level of suppressant additive. The resin manufacturer specified the type and level of initiator required to produce a 20 minute gel time. The target glass content was 30 percent by weight.

13.2.2 Each laboratory independently conducted the VSE test according to this method. A summary of the results is included in Table 13.1.

13.3 Comparison to EPA Reference Methods This test has no corresponding EPA reference method.

The sample size used in this method produces a negligible emission of HAP, and has an insignificant impact upon the atmosphere.

The spent and waste materials generated during this test are disposed according to required facility procedures, and waste management recommendations on the corresponding material safety data sheets.

16.1 Footnotes:

Balance Enclosure-The purpose of the balance enclosure is to prevent localized airflow from adversely affecting the laboratory balance. The enclosure may be a simple three-sided box with a top and an open face. The configuration of the enclosure is secondary to the purpose of providing a stable and steady balance reading, free from the effects of airflow, for accurate measurements. The enclosure can be fabricated locally. A typical enclosure is shown in Figure 17.1.

Laboratory Balance-Ohaus Precision Standard Series P/N TS400D or equivalent-Paul N. Gardner Co. 316 NE 1st St. Pompano Beach, FL 33060 or other suppliers.

Stop Watch-Local supply.

Thermometer-Mercury thermometer-ASTM No. 21C or equivalent; Digital thermometer-P/N TH-33033 or equivalent-Paul N. Gardner Co. 316 NE 1st St. Pompano Beach, FL 33060 or other suppliers.

Aluminum Pan-Local supply.

Mylar-Local supply.

Double Sided Tape-3M Double Stick Tape or equivalent, local supply.

Laboratory Beakers-250 to 400ml capacity-Local laboratory supply.

Eye Dropper or Pipette-Local laboratory supply.
