
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart WWWW of Part 63 - Test Method for Determining Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness
####### www.esmfg.com,

Disposable Resin Application Roller Source-Wire Handle Roller P/N 205-050-300 or Plastic Handle Roller P/N 215-050-300 or equivalent; ES Manufacturing Inc., 2500 26st Ave. North, St. Petersburg, FL 33713,or other source. Refer to Figure 17.3.

Hygrometer or Psychrometer-Model# THWD-1, or equivalent-Part # 975765 by Amprobe Instrument, 630 Merrick Road, P.O. Box 329, Lynbrook, NY 11563, 516-593-5600

Insulating Board (Teflon, cardboard, foam board etc.)-Local supply.

Laboratory Balance With Digital Output-Ohaus Precision Standard Series P/N TS120S or equivalent-Paul N. Gardner Co. 316 NE 1st St. Pompano Beach, FL 33060 or other suppliers.

Chopped Strand Mat-1.5 oz/ftSources: Owens Corning Fiberglas-Fiberglas M-723; PPG Industries-ABM HTX; Vetrotex America-M-127 or equivalent.

Certificate of Analysis: Resin gel time, as recorded on the resin certificate of analysis, is measured using a laboratory standard gel time procedure. This procedure typically uses a 100 gram cup sample at 77 &#xB0;F (25 &#xB0;C), a specific type of initiator and a specified percentage.

Roll-out times may vary with resin viscosity or resin additive. The important aspect of this step is to produce the same roll-out time for both the suppressed and non-suppressed samples.

While this test can be used with filled resin systems, the test is not designed to determine the effect of the filler on emissions, but rather to measure the effect of the suppressant additive in the resin system. When evaluating a filled system both the non-vapor suppressed and vapor suppressed samples should be formulated with the same type and level of filler.

16.2 References

1. Phase 1-Baseline Study Hand Lay-up, CFA, 1996

2. CFA Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness Test Development, 4/3/98, correspondence with Dr. Madeleine Strum, EPA, OAQPS

3. CFA Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness Screening Tests, 4/4/98

4. Styrene Suppressant Systems Study, Reichhold Chemical, 11/30/98

5. Evaluation of the CFA's New Proposed Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness Test, Technical Service Request #: ED-01-98, BYK Chemie, 6/3/98

6. Second Evaluation of the CFA's New Proposed Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness Test, Technical Service Request #: ED-02-98, BYK Chemie, 1/26/99

17.1 This data sheet, or a similar data sheet, is used to record the test data for filled, unfilled, suppressed and non-suppressed tests. If additional time is required, the data sheet may be extended.

17.2 Data Acceptance Criteria Worksheet:
