
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart WWWW of Part 63 - Test Method for Determining Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness
####### e.g.

6.1.5 A lipped pan large enough to hold the cut glass without coming into contact with the vertical sides,a pizza pan.

6.1.6 Mylar film sufficient to cover the bottom of the pan.

6.1.7 Tape to keep the Mylar from shifting in the bottom of the pan.

6.1.8 Plastic tri-corner beakers of equivalent-250 ml to 400 ml capacity.

6.1.9 Eye dropper or pipette.

6.1.10 Disposable resin application roller,&#x2033;-&#x2033; diameter x 3&#x2033;-6&#x2033; roller length.

6.1.11 Hygrometer or psychrometeraccurate to +/-5 percent

6.1.12 Insulating board, (Teflon, cardboard, foam board etc.) to prevent the balance from becoming a heat sink.

6.2 Optional Equipment.

6.2.1 Laboratory balance-accurate to +/-.01g with digital output, such as an RS-232 bi-directional interfacefor use with automatic data recording devices.

6.2.2 Computer with recording software configured to link to balance digital output. Must be programmed to record data at the minimum intervals required for manual data acquisition.

6.3 Supplies.

6.3.1 Chopped strand mat-1.5 oz/ft.
