
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWW - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Reinforced Plastic Composites Production
###### Appendix A to Subpart WWWW of Part 63 - Test Method for Determining Vapor Suppressant Effectiveness
####### i.e.

11.1.5 Two plies of nominal 1.5 oz/ftchopped strand mat (CSM) are cut into a square or rectangle with the minimum surface area of 60 square inches (a square with a side dimension of 7.75 inches).

11.1.6 The appropriate resin application roller is readily available.

11.2 Resin Gel Time/Initiator Percentage

11.2.1 Previous testing has indicated that resin gel time influences the emissions from composite production. The testing indicated that longer the gel times led to higher emissions. There are a number of factors that influence gel time including initiator type, initiator brand, initiator level, temperature and resin additives. Under actual usage conditions a molder will adjust the initiator to meet a gel time requirement. In this test procedure, the vapor suppressed and non-vapor suppressed resin systems will be adjusted to the same gel time by selecting the appropriate initiator level for each.

11.2.2 All test runs within a test will be processed in a manner that produces the same resin gel time +/-2 minutes. To facilitate the resin mixing procedure, master batches of resin and resin plus vapor suppressant of resin are prepared. These resin master batches will have all of the required ingredients except initiator; this includes filler for filled systems. The gel times for the tests are conducted using the master batch and adjustments to meet gel time requirements shall be made to the master batch before emission testing is conducted. Test temperatures must be maintained within the required range, during gel time testing. Further gel time testing is not required after the non-vapor suppressed and vapor suppressed master batches are established with gel times within +/-2 minutes. A sufficient quantity of each resin should be prepared to allow for additional test specimens in the event one or more test fails to meet the data acceptance criteria discussed in Section 11.5 and shown in Table 17.2.

11.2.3 The specific brand of initiator and the nominal percentage level recommended by the resin manufacturer will be indicated on the resin certificate of analysis; or, if a unique gel time is required in a production laminate, initiator brand and percentage will be determined by that specific requirement.

11.2.4 Examples:

11.2.4.1 The resin for a test run is specified as having a 15-minute cup gel time at 77 &#xB0;F using Brand X initiator at 1.5 percent by weight. The non-suppressed control resin has a 15-minute gel time. The suppressed resin has a gel time of 17-minutes. An initiator level of 1.5 percent would be selected for the both the non-suppressed and the suppressed test samples.

11.2.4.2 Based on a specific production requirement, a resin is processed in production using 2.25 percent of Brand Y initiator, which produces a 20-minute gel time. This initiator at level of 2.25 percent produces a 20 minute gel time for the non-suppressed control resin, but yields a 25-minute gel time for the suppressed resin sample. The suppressed resin is retested at 2.50 percent initiator and produces a 21-minute gel time. The initiator levels of 2.25 percent and 2.50 percent respectively would yield gel times within +/-2 minutes.

11.3 Test Run Procedure for Unfilled Resin (see the data sheet shown in Table 17.1).

11.3.1 The insulating board is placed on the balance.

11.3.2 The aluminum pan with attached Mylar film is placed on the balance, and the balance is tared (weight reading set to zero with the plate on the balance.)

11.3.3 Place two plies of 1.5 oz. CSM on the balance and record the weight (glass weight).

11.3.4 The resin beaker and stirring rod are put on the second balance and tared.

11.3.5 The required resin weight and initiator weight are calculated (refer to calculation formulas in 12.2).

11.3.6 The disposable resin application roller is placed on the edge of the plate.

11.3.7 The balance is tared, with the aluminum pan, Mylar film, glass mat, and resin application roller on the balance pan.

11.3.8 Resin is weighed into a beaker, as calculated, using the second balance. The mixing stick should be tared with the beaker weight.

11.3.9 Initiator is weighed into the resin, as calculated, using an eyedropper or a pipette, and the combination is mixed.

11.3.10 Initiated resin is poured on chopped strand mat in a pe-determined pattern (see Figure 11.6).

11.3.11 A stopwatch is started from zero.

11.3.12 The initial laminate weight is recorded.

11.3.13 The plate is removed from balance to enable roll-out of the laminate.

11.3.14 The wet laminate is rolled with the resin application roller to completely distribute the resin, saturate the chopped strand mat, and eliminate air voids. Roll-out time should be in the range of 2 to 3minutes and vary less than +/-10 percent of the average time required for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed runs.

11.3.15 Record the rollout end time (time from start to completion of rollout).

11.3.16 Place the resin application roller on the edge of the plate when rollout is completed.

11.3.17 Place the plate back on the balance pan. Immediately record the weight.

11.3.18 For the first test in a series of six tests, weight is recorded every 5-minute interval (suppressed and non-suppressed). The end of the test occurs when three consecutive equal weights are recorded or a weight gain is observed (the last weight before the increased weight is the end of test weight). For the remaining five tests in the series, after the initial weights are taken, the next weight is recorded 30 minutes before the end of the test, as suggested by the results from the first test. It is likely that the time to reach the end point of a suppressed resin test will be shorter than the time required to complete a non-suppressed test. Therefore, the time to start taking data manually may be different for suppressed and non-suppressed resins.

11.4 Test Run Procedures for Filled Resin SystemsNote that the procedure for filled systems differs from the procedure for unfilled systems. With filled systems, resin is applied to one ply of the CSM and the second ply is placed on top of the resin.

11.4.1 The insulating board is placed on the balance.

11.4.2 The aluminum pan with attached Mylar film is placed on the balance, and the balance is tared (weight reading set to zero with the plate on the balance.)

11.4.3 Place two plies of 1.5 oz. CSM on the balance and record the weight (glass weight).

11.4.4 Remove the top ply of fiberglass and record its weight (weight of 1st layer of glass).

11.4.5 The required resin weight and initiator weight are calculated (refer to calculation formulas in 12.2). Calculate the weight of filled resin and initiator based on the 2 layers of fiberglass.

11.4.6 The resin beaker and stirring rod are put on the second balance and tared.

11.4.7 A disposable resin application roller is placed on the edge of the plate.

11.4.8 The balance is tared, with the aluminum pan, Mylar film, glass mat, and resin application roller on the balance pan.

11.4.9 Resin is weighed into the beaker, as calculated, using the second balance. The mixing stick should be tared with the beaker weight.

11.4.10 Initiator is weighed into the resin, as calculated, using an eyedropper or a pipette, and the combination is mixed.

11.4.11 Initiated resin is poured on the single ply of CSM in a pre-determined pattern. Refer to Figure 11.6.

11.4.12 A stopwatch is started from zero.

11.4.13 Record the weight of the resin ans single ply of CSM (L). The initial laminate weight equals Lplus the weight of second glass layer.

11.4.14 Replace the second layer of fiberglass.

11.4.15 Remove the plate from the balance to allow roll-out of the laminate.

11.4.16 Roll the wet laminate with the resin application roller to completely distribute the resin, saturate the chopped strand mat, and eliminate air voids. Roll-out time should be in the range of 2 to 3minutes and vary less than +/-10 percent of the average time required for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed runs.

11.4.17 Record the roll-out end time (time from start to completion of rollout).

11.4.18 Place the resin application roller on the edge of the plate when rollout is completed.

11.4.19 Place the plate back on the balance pan. The initial weight is recorded immediately.

11.4.20 For the first test run in a series of six, weight is recorded at every 5-minute interval (suppressed and non-suppressed). The end of the test occurs when three consecutive equal weights are recorded or a weight gain is observed (the last weight before the increased weight is the end of test weight). For the remaining five tests in the series, after the initial weights are taken, the next weight is recorded 30 minutes before the end of the test, as suggested by the results from the first test. It is likely that the time to reach the end point of a suppressed resin test will be shorter than the time required to complete a non-suppressed test. Therefore, the time to start taking data manually may be different for suppressed and non-suppressed resins.

11.5 Data Acceptance Criteria:

11.5.1 A test set is designed as twelve individual test runs using the same resin, initiator, and gel time, six of the test runs use the resin non-vapor suppressed and the other six use it vapor suppressed.

11.5.2 If a test run falls outside any of the time, temperature, weight or humidity variation requirements, it must be discarded and run again.

11.5.3 The laminate roll out time for each individual test run must vary less than +/-10 percent of the average time required for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed runs.

11.5.4 Test temperature for each test run must be maintained within +/-2 &#xB0;F and the average must be between 70&#xB0; and 80 &#xB0;F. Refer to 11.1.3.

11.5.5 The difference in the amount of resin for each run must be within +/-10 percent of the average weight for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed runs.

11.5.6 The relative humidity from each test run must be within +/-15 percent of the average humidity for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed tests. Refer to 11.1.4

11.5.7 The glass content for each test set must be within +/-10 percent of the average resin-to-/glass ratio for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed runs. Refer to 12.2).

11.5.8 The filler content for each test of a test set must be within +/-5 percent of the average filler content for the complete set of six suppressed and six non-suppressed runs. Refer to 12.2.

11.6 Resin Application Pour Pattern:

11.6.1 To facilitate the distribution of resin across the chopped strand mat, and to provide consistency from test to test, a uniform pour pattern should be used. A typical pour pattern is shown below:

11.6.2 The resin is to be evenly distributed across the entire surface of the chopped strand mat using the resin application roller to achieve a wet look across the surface of the laminate. Pushing excess resin off the reinforcement and onto the Mylar sheet should be avoided. No resin is to be pushed more thaninch beyond the edge of the glass mat. If excess resin is pushed further from the glass mat, it will void the test run. As part of this process, typical visible air voids are to be eliminated by the rollout process. If the pour pattern is different from the above, it must be recorded and attached to test data sheet 17.1.

12.1 Data Analysis:

This test method requires a simple mass balance calculation, no special data analysis is necessary.

12.2 Calculations:

12.2.1 The target glass content (percent) for unfilled resin systems is determined from the specific production parameters being evaluated. In absence of any specific production requirements the target may be set at the tester's discretion.

12.2.2 Glass content determination (expressed as a per cent):

12.2.3 Weight of resin required:

Resin weight required = (Glass wt (g)/% glass)-Glass wt (g)
