
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXX - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements for Puncture Sealant Application Affected Sources
####### ยง 63.6000 How do I conduct tests and procedures for puncture sealant application affected sources?
######## Methods to determine compliance with the emission limits in Table 3 to this subpart, option 1.

(b)Follow the test procedures described in ยง 63.5993 to determine the overall control efficiency of your system.

(1) You must also meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Conduct the performance test using a puncture sealant with an average mass percent HAP content that is representative of the puncture sealants typically used at your puncture sealant application affected source.

(ii) Establish all applicable operating limit ranges that correspond to the control system efficiency as described in Table 5 to this subpart.

(2) Use Equation 1 of this section to calculate the overall efficiency of the control system. If you have a permanent total enclosure that satisfies EPA Method 204 (found in 40 CFR part 51, appendix M) criteria, assume 100 percent capture efficiency for variable F. Equation 1 follows:

(3) Monitor the established operating limits as appropriate.

(i) If you use a thermal oxidizer, monitor the firebox secondary chamber temperature.

(ii) If you use a carbon adsorber, monitor the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle, and the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration, and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.

(iii) For each control device used other than a thermal oxidizer or a regenerative carbon adsorber, install and operate a continuous parameter monitoring system according to your site-specific performance test plan submitted according to ยง 63.7(c)(2)(i).

(iv) If you use a permanent total enclosure, monitor the face velocity across the NDO in the enclosure. Also, if you use an enclosure, monitor to ensure that the sizes of the NDO have not changed, that there are no new NDO, and that a HAP emission source has not been moved closer to an NDO since the last performance test was conducted.

(v) If you use other capture systems, monitor the parameters identified in your monitoring plan.

(vi) Maintain the operating parameter within the operating range established during the performance test.
