
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXX - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.6009 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7 (b) and (c), 63.8(f) (4) and (6), and 63.9 (b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your affected source before July 9, 2002, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than November 6, 2002, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you startup your new or reconstructed affected source on or after July 9, 2002, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test, design evaluation, or other initial compliance demonstration as specified in tables 5 through 8 to this subpart, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). The Notification must contain the information listed in table 15 to this subpart for compliance reports. The Notification of Compliance Status must be submitted according to the following schedules, as appropriate:

(1) For each initial compliance demonstration required in tables 6 through 8 to this subpart that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(2) Before January 21, 2021, for each initial compliance demonstration required in tables 6 through 8 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in table 5 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2). After January 20, 2021, for each initial compliance demonstration required in tables 6 through 8 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in table 5 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to §§ 63.10(d)(2) and 63.6010(h)(1) through (3).

(f) For each tire production affected source, the Notification of Compliance Status must also identify the emission limit option in § 63.5984 and the compliance alternative in § 63.5985 that you have chosen to meet.

(g) For each tire production affected source complying with the purchase compliance alternative in § 63.5985(a), the Notification of Compliance Status must also include the information listed in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A list of each cement and solvent, as purchased, that is used at the affected source and the manufacturer or supplier of each.

(2) The individual HAP content (percent by mass) of each cement and solvent that is used.

(h) For each tire production or tire cord production affected source using a control device, the Notification of Compliance Status must also include the information in paragraphs (h) (1) and (2) of this section for each operating parameter in §§ 63.5994(e)(1) and 63.5997(e)(1) that applies to you.

(1) The operating parameter value averaged over the full period of the performance test (e.g., average secondary chamber firebox temperature over the period of the performance test was 1,500 degrees Fahrenheit).

(2) The operating parameter range within which HAP emissions are reduced to the level corresponding to meeting the applicable emission limits in tables 1 and 2 to this subpart.

(i) For each puncture sealant application affected source using a control device, the Notification of Compliance Status must include the information in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section for each operating limit in § 63.6000(b)(3) and each operating parameter in § 63.6000(f).

(1) The operating limit or operating parameter value averaged over the full period of the performance test.

(2) The operating limit or operating parameter range within which HAP emissions are reduced to the levels corresponding to meeting the applicable emission limitations in table 3 to this subpart.

(j) For each tire cord production affected source required to assess the predominant use for coating web substrates as required by § 63.5981(b), you must submit a notice of the results of the reassessment within 30 days of completing the reassessment. The notice shall specify whether this subpart XXXX is still the applicable subpart and, if it is not, which part 63 subpart is applicable.
