
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXX - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Rubber Tire Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.6011 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(3) Before January 21, 2021, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. After January 20, 2021, it is not required to keep records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

(b) For each tire production affected source, you must keep the records specified in Table 9 to this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emission limit that applies to you.

(c) For each tire cord production affected source, you must keep the records specified in Table 11 to this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emission limit that applies to you.

(d) For each puncture sealant application affected source, you must keep the records specified in Table 13 to this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emission limit that applies to you.

(e) After January 20, 2021 any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
