
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.6110 By what date must I conduct the initial performance tests or other initial compliance demonstrations?

(a) You must conduct the initial performance tests or other initial compliance demonstrations in Table 4 of this subpart that apply to you within 180 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified for your stationary combustion turbine in ยง 63.6095 and according to the provisions in ยง 63.7(a)(2).

(b) An owner or operator is not required to conduct an initial performance test to determine outlet formaldehyde concentration on units for which a performance test has been previously conducted, but the test must meet all of the conditions described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) The test must have been conducted using the same methods specified in this subpart, and these methods must have been followed correctly.

(2) The test must not be older than 2 years.

(3) The test must be reviewed and accepted by the Administrator.

(4) Either no process or equipment changes must have been made since the test was performed, or the owner or operator must be able to demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process or equipment changes.

(5) The test must be conducted at any load condition within plus or minus 10 percent of 100 percent load.
