
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.6155 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Records of performance tests and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(3) Before September 8, 2020, records of the occurrence and duration of each startup, shutdown, or malfunction as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(i).

(4) Before September 8, 2020, records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the air pollution control equipment, if applicable, as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(ii).

(5) Records of all maintenance on the air pollution control equipment as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(iii).

(6) After September 8, 2020, records of the date, time, and duration of each startup period, recording the periods when the affected source was subject to the standard applicable to startup.

(7) After September 8, 2020, keep records as follows.

(i) Record the number of deviations. For each deviation, record the date, time, cause, and duration of the deviation.

(ii) For each deviation, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(iii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.6105(c), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(b) If you are operating a stationary combustion turbine which fires landfill gas, digester gas or gasified MSW equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or if you are operating a lean premix gas-fired stationary combustion turbine or a diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion turbine as defined by this subpart, and you use any quantity of distillate oil to fire any new or existing stationary combustion turbine which is located at the same major source, you must keep the records of your daily fuel usage monitors.

(c) You must keep the records required in Table 5 of this subpart to show continuous compliance with each operating limitation that applies to you.

(d) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
