
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.6150 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance report.

(a)Anyone who owns or operates a stationary combustion turbine which must meet the emission limitation for formaldehyde must submit a semiannual compliance report according to Table 6 of this subpart. The semiannual compliance report must contain the information described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. The semiannual compliance report, including the excess emissions and monitoring system performance reports of § 63.10(e)(3), must be submitted by the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section, unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule. After September 8, 2020, or once the reporting template has been available on the Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) website for 180 days, whichever date is later, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) Before September 8, 2020, for each deviation from an emission limitation, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The total operating time of each stationary combustion turbine during the reporting period.

(ii) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(iii) Information on the number, duration, and cause for monitor downtime incidents (including unknown cause, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks).

(5) After September 8, 2020, report each deviation in the semiannual compliance report. Report the information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Report the number of deviations. For each instance, report the start date, start time, duration, and cause of each deviation, and the corrective action taken.

(ii) For each deviation, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(iii) Information on the number, duration, and cause for monitor downtime incidents (including unknown cause, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(iv) Report the total operating time of the affected source during the reporting period.

(b) Dates of submittal for the semiannual compliance report are provided in (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.6095 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date specified in § 63.6095.

(2) The first semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.6095.

(3) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each stationary combustion turbine that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established the date for submitting annual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(c) If you are operating as a stationary combustion turbine which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, or a stationary combustion turbine where gasified MSW is used to generate 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, you must submit an annual report according to Table 6 of this subpart by the date specified unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, according to the information described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. You must report the data specified in (c)(1) through (3) of this section. After September 8, 2020, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(1) Fuel flow rate of each fuel and the heating values that were used in your calculations. You must also demonstrate that the percentage of heat input provided by landfill gas, digester gas, or gasified MSW is equivalent to 10 percent or more of the total fuel consumption on an annual basis.

(2) The operating limits provided in your federally enforceable permit, and any deviations from these limits.

(3) Any problems or errors suspected with the meters.

(d) Dates of submittal for the annual report are provided in (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.

(1) The first annual report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.6095 and ending on December 31.

(2) The first annual report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31.

(3) Each subsequent annual report must cover the annual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent annual report must be postmarked or delivered no later than January 31.

(5) For each stationary combustion turbine that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established the date for submitting annual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(e) If you are operating a lean premix gas-fired stationary combustion turbine or a diffusion flame gas-fired stationary combustion turbine as defined by this subpart, and you use any quantity of distillate oil to fire any new or existing stationary combustion turbine which is located at the same major source, you must submit an annual report according to Table 6 of this subpart by the date specified unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, according to the information described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section. You must report the data specified in (e)(1) through (3) of this section. After September 8, 2020, you must submit all subsequent reports to the EPA following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(1) The number of hours distillate oil was fired by each new or existing stationary combustion turbine during the reporting period.

(2) The operating limits provided in your federally enforceable permit, and any deviations from these limits.

(3) Any problems or errors suspected with the meters.
