
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.6145 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9(b) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your new or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine before March 5, 2004, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after March 5, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b), if you start up your new or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine on or after March 5, 2004, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.

(d) If you are required to submit an Initial Notification but are otherwise not affected by the emission limitation requirements of this subpart, in accordance with § 63.6090(b), your notification must include the information in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (v) and a statement that your new or reconstructed stationary combustion turbine has no additional emission limitation requirements and must explain the basis of the exclusion (for example, that it operates exclusively as an emergency stationary combustion turbine).

(e) If you are required to conduct an initial performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct an initial performance test at least 60 calendar days before the initial performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(f) If you are required to comply with the emission limitation for formaldehyde, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). For each performance test required to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitation for formaldehyde, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test.
