
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Combustion Turbines
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.6175 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## Natural gas transmission and storage facility

means any grouping of equipment where natural gas is processed, compressed, or stored prior to entering a pipeline to a local distribution company or (if there is no local distribution company) to a final end user. Examples of a facility for this source category are: an underground natural gas storage operation; or a natural gas compressor station that receives natural gas via pipeline, from an underground natural gas storage operation, or from a natural gas processing plant. The emission points associated with these phases include, but are not limited to, process vents. Processes that may have vents include, but are not limited to, dehydration and compressor station engines. Facility, for the purpose of a major source determination, means natural gas transmission and storage equipment that is located inside the boundaries of an individual surface site (as defined in this section) and is connected by ancillary equipment, such as gas flow lines or power lines. Equipment that is part of a facility will typically be located within close proximity to other equipment located at the same facility. Natural gas transmission and storage equipment or groupings of equipment located on different gas leases, mineral fee tracts, lease tracts, subsurface unit areas, surface fee tracts, or surface lease tracts shall not be considered part of the same facility.
