
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.6590 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
######## Stationary RICE subject to limited requirements.

(b)(1) An affected source which meets either of the criteria in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (ii) of this section does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part except for the initial notification requirements of § 63.6645(f).

(i) The stationary RICE is a new or reconstructed emergency stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(ii) The stationary RICE is a new or reconstructed limited use stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(2) A new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions which combusts landfill or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis must meet the initial notification requirements of § 63.6645(f) and the requirements of §§ 63.6625(c), 63.6650(g), and 63.6655(c). These stationary RICE do not have to meet the emission limitations and operating limitations of this subpart.

(3) The following stationary RICE do not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part, including initial notification requirements:

(i) Existing spark ignition 2 stroke lean burn (2SLB) stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions;

(ii) Existing spark ignition 4 stroke lean burn (4SLB) stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions;

(iii) Existing emergency stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(iv) Existing limited use stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions;

(v) Existing stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions that combusts landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis;
