
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.6585 Am I subject to this subpart?

You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a stationary RICE at a major or area source of HAP emissions, except if the stationary RICE is being tested at a stationary RICE test cell/stand.

(a) A stationary RICE is any internal combustion engine which uses reciprocating motion to convert heat energy into mechanical work and which is not mobile. Stationary RICE differ from mobile RICE in that a stationary RICE is not a non-road engine as defined at 40 CFR 1068.30, and is not used to propel a motor vehicle or a vehicle used solely for competition.

(b) A major source of HAP emissions is a plant site that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 10 tons (9.07 megagrams) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 25 tons (22.68 megagrams) or more per year, except that for oil and gas production facilities, a major source of HAP emissions is determined for each surface site.

(c) An area source of HAP emissions is a source that is not a major source.

(d) If you are an owner or operator of an area source subject to this subpart, your status as an entity subject to a standard or other requirements under this subpart does not subject you to the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart as applicable.

(e) If you are an owner or operator of a stationary RICE used for national security purposes, you may be eligible to request an exemption from the requirements of this subpart as described in 40 CFR part 1068, subpart C.

(f) The emergency stationary RICE listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section are not subject to this subpart. The stationary RICE must meet the definition of an emergency stationary RICE in § 63.6675, which includes operating according to the provisions specified in § 63.6640(f).

(1) Existing residential emergency stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions that do not operate for the purpose specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii).

(2) Existing commercial emergency stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions that do not operate for the purpose specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii).

(3) Existing institutional emergency stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions that do not operate for the purpose specified in § 63.6640(f)(4)(ii).
