
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.6610 By what date must I conduct the initial performance tests or other initial compliance demonstrations if I own or operate a stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions?

If you own or operate a stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions you are subject to the requirements of this section.

(a) You must conduct the initial performance test or other initial compliance demonstrations in Table 4 to this subpart that apply to you within 180 days after the compliance date that is specified for your stationary RICE in § 63.6595 and according to the provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).

(b) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between December 19, 2002 and June 15, 2004 and own or operate stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, you must demonstrate initial compliance with either the proposed emission limitations or the promulgated emission limitations no later than February 10, 2005 or no later than 180 days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).

(c) If you commenced construction or reconstruction between December 19, 2002 and June 15, 2004 and own or operate stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, and you chose to comply with the proposed emission limitations when demonstrating initial compliance, you must conduct a second performance test to demonstrate compliance with the promulgated emission limitations by December 13, 2007 or after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).

(d) An owner or operator is not required to conduct an initial performance test on units for which a performance test has been previously conducted, but the test must meet all of the conditions described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The test must have been conducted using the same methods specified in this subpart, and these methods must have been followed correctly.

(2) The test must not be older than 2 years.

(3) The test must be reviewed and accepted by the Administrator.

(4) Either no process or equipment changes must have been made since the test was performed, or the owner or operator must be able to demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process or equipment changes.

(5) The test must be conducted at any load condition within plus or minus 10 percent of 100 percent load.
