
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.6595 When do I have to comply with this subpart?
######## Affected sources.

(a)(1) If you have an existing stationary RICE, excluding existing non-emergency CI stationary RICE, with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations, operating limitations and other requirements no later than June 15, 2007. If you have an existing non-emergency CI stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, an existing stationary CI RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, or an existing stationary CI RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations, operating limitations, and other requirements no later than May 3, 2013. If you have an existing stationary SI RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, or an existing stationary SI RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations, operating limitations, and other requirements no later than October 19, 2013.

(2) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions before August 16, 2004, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations and operating limitations in this subpart no later than August 16, 2004.

(3) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions after August 16, 2004, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations and operating limitations in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(4) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions before January 18, 2008, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations and operating limitations in this subpart no later than January 18, 2008.

(5) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions after January 18, 2008, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations and operating limitations in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(6) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions before January 18, 2008, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations and operating limitations in this subpart no later than January 18, 2008.

(7) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions after January 18, 2008, you must comply with the applicable emission limitations and operating limitations in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
