
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Emission and Operating Limitations
####### § 63.6603 What emission limitations, operating limitations, and other requirements must I meet if I own or operate an existing stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions?

Compliance with the numerical emission limitations established in this subpart is based on the results of testing the average of three 1-hour runs using the testing requirements and procedures in § 63.6620 and Table 4 to this subpart.

(a) If you own or operate an existing stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions, you must comply with the requirements in Table 2d to this subpart and the operating limitations in Table 2b to this subpart that apply to you.

(b) If you own or operate an existing stationary non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP that meets either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, you do not have to meet the numerical CO emission limitations specified in Table 2d of this subpart. Existing stationary non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP that meet either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section must meet the management practices that are shown for stationary non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 300 HP in Table 2d of this subpart.

(1) The area source is located in an area of Alaska that is not accessible by the Federal Aid Highway System (FAHS).

(2) The stationary RICE is located at an area source that meets paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.

(i) The only connection to the FAHS is through the Alaska Marine Highway System (AMHS), or the stationary RICE operation is within an isolated grid in Alaska that is not connected to the statewide electrical grid referred to as the Alaska Railbelt Grid.

(ii) At least 10 percent of the power generated by the stationary RICE on an annual basis is used for residential purposes.

(iii) The generating capacity of the area source is less than 12 megawatts, or the stationary RICE is used exclusively for backup power for renewable energy.

(c) If you own or operate an existing stationary non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located on an offshore vessel that is an area source of HAP and is a nonroad vehicle that is an Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) source as defined in 40 CFR 55.2, you do not have to meet the numerical CO emission limitations specified in Table 2d of this subpart. You must meet all of the following management practices:

(1) Change oil every 1,000 hours of operation or annually, whichever comes first. Sources have the option to utilize an oil analysis program as described in § 63.6625(i) in order to extend the specified oil change requirement.

(2) Inspect and clean air filters every 750 hours of operation or annually, whichever comes first, and replace as necessary.

(3) Inspect fuel filters and belts, if installed, every 750 hours of operation or annually, whichever comes first, and replace as necessary.

(4) Inspect all flexible hoses every 1,000 hours of operation or annually, whichever comes first, and replace as necessary.

(d) If you own or operate an existing non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions that is certified to the Tier 1 or Tier 2 emission standards in Table 1 of 40 CFR 89.112 and that is subject to an enforceable state or local standard that requires the engine to be replaced no later than June 1, 2018, you may until January 1, 2015, or 12 years after the installation date of the engine (whichever is later), but not later than June 1, 2018, choose to comply with the management practices that are shown for stationary non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 300 HP in Table 2d of this subpart instead of the applicable emission limitations in Table 2d, operating limitations in Table 2b, and crankcase ventilation system requirements in § 63.6625(g). You must comply with the emission limitations in Table 2d and operating limitations in Table 2b that apply for non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions by January 1, 2015, or 12 years after the installation date of the engine (whichever is later), but not later than June 1, 2018. You must also comply with the crankcase ventilation system requirements in § 63.6625(g) by January 1, 2015, or 12 years after the installation date of the engine (whichever is later), but not later than June 1, 2018.

(e) If you own or operate an existing non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions that is certified to the Tier 3 (Tier 2 for engines above 560 kilowatt (kW)) emission standards in Table 1 of 40 CFR 89.112, you may comply with the requirements under this part by meeting the requirements for Tier 3 engines (Tier 2 for engines above 560 kW) in 40 CFR part 60 subpart IIII instead of the emission limitations and other requirements that would otherwise apply under this part for existing non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions.

(f) An existing non-emergency SI 4SLB and 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 HP located at area sources of HAP must meet the definition of remote stationary RICE in § 63.6675 on the initial compliance date for the engine, October 19, 2013, in order to be considered a remote stationary RICE under this subpart. Owners and operators of existing non-emergency SI 4SLB and 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 HP located at area sources of HAP that meet the definition of remote stationary RICE in § 63.6675 of this subpart as of October 19, 2013 must evaluate the status of their stationary RICE every 12 months. Owners and operators must keep records of the initial and annual evaluation of the status of the engine. If the evaluation indicates that the stationary RICE no longer meets the definition of remote stationary RICE in § 63.6675 of this subpart, the owner or operator must comply with all of the requirements for existing non-emergency SI 4SLB and 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 HP located at area sources of HAP that are not remote stationary RICE within 1 year of the evaluation.
