
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.6625 What are my monitoring, installation, collection, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## e.g.,

(ii) Sampling interface (thermocouple) location such that the monitoring system will provide representative measurements;

(iii) Equipment performance evaluations, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures;

(iv) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with provisions in § 63.8(c)(1)(ii) and (c)(3); and

(v) Ongoing reporting and recordkeeping procedures in accordance with provisions in § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(2) You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS in continuous operation according to the procedures in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(3) The CPMS must collect data at least once every 15 minutes (see also § 63.6635).

(4) For a CPMS for measuring temperature range, the temperature sensor must have a minimum tolerance of 2.8 degrees Celsius (5 degrees Fahrenheit) or 1 percent of the measurement range, whichever is larger.

(5) You must conduct the CPMS equipment performance evaluation, system accuracy audits, or other audit procedures specified in your site-specific monitoring plan at least annually.

(6) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(c) If you are operating a new or reconstructed stationary RICE which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, you must monitor and record your fuel usage daily with separate fuel meters to measure the volumetric flow rate of each fuel. In addition, you must operate your stationary RICE in a manner which reasonably minimizes HAP emissions.

(d) If you are operating a new or reconstructed emergency 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than or equal to 250 and less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, you must install a non-resettable hour meter prior to the startup of the engine.

(e) If you own or operate any of the following stationary RICE, you must operate and maintain the stationary RICE and after-treatment control device (if any) according to the manufacturer's emission-related written instructions or develop your own maintenance plan which must provide to the extent practicable for the maintenance and operation of the engine in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practice for minimizing emissions:

(1) An existing stationary RICE with a site rating of less than 100 HP located at a major source of HAP emissions;

(2) An existing emergency or black start stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 HP located at a major source of HAP emissions;

(3) An existing emergency or black start stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions;

(4) An existing non-emergency, non-black start stationary CI RICE with a site rating less than or equal to 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions;

(5) An existing non-emergency, non-black start 2SLB stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions;

(6) An existing non-emergency, non-black start stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions which combusts landfill or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis.

(7) An existing non-emergency, non-black start 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating less than or equal to 500 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions;

(8) An existing non-emergency, non-black start 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating less than or equal to 500 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions;

(9) An existing, non-emergency, non-black start 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating greater than 500 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions that is operated 24 hours or less per calendar year; and

(10) An existing, non-emergency, non-black start 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating greater than 500 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions that is operated 24 hours or less per calendar year.

(f) If you own or operate an existing emergency stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions or an existing emergency stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions, you must install a non-resettable hour meter if one is not already installed.

(g) If you own or operate an existing non-emergency, non-black start CI engine greater than or equal to 300 HP that is not equipped with a closed crankcase ventilation system, you must comply with either paragraph (g)(1) or paragraph (2) of this section. Owners and operators must follow the manufacturer's specified maintenance requirements for operating and maintaining the open or closed crankcase ventilation systems and replacing the crankcase filters, or can request the Administrator to approve different maintenance requirements that are as protective as manufacturer requirements. Existing CI engines located at area sources in areas of Alaska that meet either § 63.6603(b)(1) or § 63.6603(b)(2) do not have to meet the requirements of this paragraph (g). Existing CI engines located on offshore vessels that meet § 63.6603(c) do not have to meet the requirements of this paragraph (g).

(1) Install a closed crankcase ventilation system that prevents crankcase emissions from being emitted to the atmosphere, or

(2) Install an open crankcase filtration emission control system that reduces emissions from the crankcase by filtering the exhaust stream to remove oil mist, particulates and metals.

(h) If you operate a new, reconstructed, or existing stationary engine, you must minimize the engine's time spent at idle during startup and minimize the engine's startup time to a period needed for appropriate and safe loading of the engine, not to exceed 30 minutes, after which time the emission standards applicable to all times other than startup in Tables 1a, 2a, 2c, and 2d to this subpart apply.

(i) If you own or operate a stationary CI engine that is subject to the work, operation or management practices in items 1 or 2 of Table 2c to this subpart or in items 1 or 4 of Table 2d to this subpart, you have the option of utilizing an oil analysis program in order to extend the specified oil change requirement in Tables 2c and 2d to this subpart. The oil analysis must be performed at the same frequency specified for changing the oil in Table 2c or 2d to this subpart. The analysis program must at a minimum analyze the following three parameters: Total Base Number, viscosity, and percent water content. The condemning limits for these parameters are as follows: Total Base Number is less than 30 percent of the Total Base Number of the oil when new; viscosity of the oil has changed by more than 20 percent from the viscosity of the oil when new; or percent water content (by volume) is greater than 0.5. If all of these condemning limits are not exceeded, the engine owner or operator is not required to change the oil. If any of the limits are exceeded, the engine owner or operator must change the oil within 2 business days of receiving the results of the analysis; if the engine is not in operation when the results of the analysis are received, the engine owner or operator must change the oil within 2 business days or before commencing operation, whichever is later. The owner or operator must keep records of the parameters that are analyzed as part of the program, the results of the analysis, and the oil changes for the engine. The analysis program must be part of the maintenance plan for the engine.

(j) If you own or operate a stationary SI engine that is subject to the work, operation or management practices in items 6, 7, or 8 of Table 2c to this subpart or in items 5, 6, 7, 9, or 11 of Table 2d to this subpart, you have the option of utilizing an oil analysis program in order to extend the specified oil change requirement in Tables 2c and 2d to this subpart. The oil analysis must be performed at the same frequency specified for changing the oil in Table 2c or 2d to this subpart. The analysis program must at a minimum analyze the following three parameters: Total Acid Number, viscosity, and percent water content. The condemning limits for these parameters are as follows: Total Acid Number increases by more than 3.0 milligrams of potassium hydroxide (KOH) per gram from Total Acid Number of the oil when new; viscosity of the oil has changed by more than 20 percent from the viscosity of the oil when new; or percent water content (by volume) is greater than 0.5. If all of these condemning limits are not exceeded, the engine owner or operator is not required to change the oil. If any of the limits are exceeded, the engine owner or operator must change the oil within 2 business days of receiving the results of the analysis; if the engine is not in operation when the results of the analysis are received, the engine owner or operator must change the oil within 2 business days or before commencing operation, whichever is later. The owner or operator must keep records of the parameters that are analyzed as part of the program, the results of the analysis, and the oil changes for the engine. The analysis program must be part of the maintenance plan for the engine.
