
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.6620 What performance tests and other procedures must I use?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Tables 3 and 4 of this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements that this subpart specifies in Table 4 to this subpart. If you own or operate a non-operational stationary RICE that is subject to performance testing, you do not need to start up the engine solely to conduct the performance test. Owners and operators of a non-operational engine can conduct the performance test when the engine is started up again. The test must be conducted at any load condition within plus or minus 10 percent of 100 percent load for the stationary RICE listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Non-emergency 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(2) New non-emergency 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than or equal to 250 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(3) New non-emergency 2SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(4) New non-emergency CI stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) You must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour, unless otherwise specified in this subpart.

(e)(1) You must use Equation 1 of this section to determine compliance with the percent reduction requirement:

(2) You must normalize the CO, THC, or formaldehyde concentrations at the inlet and outlet of the control device to a dry basis and to 15 percent oxygen, or an equivalent percent carbon dioxide (CO). If pollutant concentrations are to be corrected to 15 percent oxygen and COconcentration is measured in lieu of oxygen concentration measurement, a COcorrection factor is needed. Calculate the COcorrection factor as described in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Calculate the fuel-specific Fvalue for the fuel burned during the test using values obtained from Method 19, Section 5.2, and the following equation:

(ii) Calculate the COcorrection factor for correcting measurement data to 15 percent O, as follows:

(iii) Calculate the CO, THC, and formaldehyde gas concentrations adjusted to 15 percent Ousing COas follows:

(f) If you comply with the emission limitation to reduce CO and you are not using an oxidation catalyst, if you comply with the emission limitation to reduce formaldehyde and you are not using NSCR, or if you comply with the emission limitation to limit the concentration of formaldehyde in the stationary RICE exhaust and you are not using an oxidation catalyst or NSCR, you must petition the Administrator for operating limitations to be established during the initial performance test and continuously monitored thereafter; or for approval of no operating limitations. You must not conduct the initial performance test until after the petition has been approved by the Administrator.

(g) If you petition the Administrator for approval of operating limitations, your petition must include the information described in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Identification of the specific parameters you propose to use as operating limitations;

(2) A discussion of the relationship between these parameters and HAP emissions, identifying how HAP emissions change with changes in these parameters, and how limitations on these parameters will serve to limit HAP emissions;

(3) A discussion of how you will establish the upper and/or lower values for these parameters which will establish the limits on these parameters in the operating limitations;

(4) A discussion identifying the methods you will use to measure and the instruments you will use to monitor these parameters, as well as the relative accuracy and precision of these methods and instruments; and

(5) A discussion identifying the frequency and methods for recalibrating the instruments you will use for monitoring these parameters.

(h) If you petition the Administrator for approval of no operating limitations, your petition must include the information described in paragraphs (h)(1) through (7) of this section.
