
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.6625 What are my monitoring, installation, collection, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) If you elect to install a CEMS as specified in Table 5 of this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a CEMS to monitor CO and either Oor COaccording to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. If you are meeting a requirement to reduce CO emissions, the CEMS must be installed at both the inlet and outlet of the control device. If you are meeting a requirement to limit the concentration of CO, the CEMS must be installed at the outlet of the control device.

(1) Each CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable performance specifications of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(2) You must conduct an initial performance evaluation and an annual relative accuracy test audit (RATA) of each CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 and according to the applicable performance specifications of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B as well as daily and periodic data quality checks in accordance with 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, procedure 1.

(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(ii), each CEMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. You must have at least two data points, with each representing a different 15-minute period, to have a valid hour of data.

(4) The CEMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2) and recorded in parts per million or parts per billion (as appropriate for the applicable limitation) at 15 percent oxygen or the equivalent COconcentration.

(b) If you are required to install a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) as specified in Table 5 of this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. For an affected source that is complying with the emission limitations and operating limitations on March 9, 2011, the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section are applicable September 6, 2011.

(1) You must prepare a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the monitoring system design, data collection, and the quality assurance and quality control elements outlined in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section and in § 63.8(d). As specified in § 63.8(f)(4), you may request approval of monitoring system quality assurance and quality control procedures alternative to those specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(i) The performance criteria and design specifications for the monitoring system equipment, including the sample interface, detector signal analyzer, and data acquisition and calculations;
