
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.6630 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations, operating limitations, and other requirements?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limitation, operating limitation, and other requirement that applies to you according to Table 5 of this subpart.

(b) During the initial performance test, you must establish each operating limitation in Tables 1b and 2b of this subpart that applies to you.

(c) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in ยง 63.6645.

(d) Non-emergency 4SRB stationary RICE complying with the requirement to reduce formaldehyde emissions by 76 percent or more can demonstrate initial compliance with the formaldehyde emission limit by testing for THC instead of formaldehyde. The testing must be conducted according to the requirements in Table 4 of this subpart. The average reduction of emissions of THC determined from the performance test must be equal to or greater than 30 percent.

(e) The initial compliance demonstration required for existing non-emergency 4SLB and 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 HP located at an area source of HAP that are not remote stationary RICE and that are operated more than 24 hours per calendar year must be conducted according to the following requirements:

(1) The compliance demonstration must consist of at least three test runs.

(2) Each test run must be of at least 15 minute duration, except that each test conducted using the method in appendix A to this subpart must consist of at least one measurement cycle and include at least 2 minutes of test data phase measurement.

(3) If you are demonstrating compliance with the CO concentration or CO percent reduction requirement, you must measure CO emissions using one of the CO measurement methods specified in Table 4 of this subpart, or using appendix A to this subpart.

(4) If you are demonstrating compliance with the THC percent reduction requirement, you must measure THC emissions using Method 25A, reported as propane, of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(5) You must measure Ousing one of the Omeasurement methods specified in Table 4 of this subpart. Measurements to determine Oconcentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for CO or THC concentration.

(6) If you are demonstrating compliance with the CO or THC percent reduction requirement, you must measure CO or THC emissions and Oemissions simultaneously at the inlet and outlet of the control device.
