
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.6640 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations, operating limitations, and other requirements?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation, operating limitation, and other requirements in Tables 1a and 1b, Tables 2a and 2b, Table 2c, and Table 2d to this subpart that apply to you according to methods specified in Table 6 to this subpart.

(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limitation or operating limitation in Tables 1a and 1b, Tables 2a and 2b, Table 2c, and Table 2d to this subpart that apply to you. These instances are deviations from the emission and operating limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in ยง 63.6650. If you change your catalyst, you must reestablish the values of the operating parameters measured during the initial performance test. When you reestablish the values of your operating parameters, you must also conduct a performance test to demonstrate that you are meeting the required emission limitation applicable to your stationary RICE.

(c) The annual compliance demonstration required for existing non-emergency 4SLB and 4SRB stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 HP located at an area source of HAP that are not remote stationary RICE and that are operated more than 24 hours per calendar year must be conducted according to the following requirements:

(1) The compliance demonstration must consist of at least one test run.

(2) Each test run must be of at least 15 minute duration, except that each test conducted using the method in appendix A to this subpart must consist of at least one measurement cycle and include at least 2 minutes of test data phase measurement.

(3) If you are demonstrating compliance with the CO concentration or CO percent reduction requirement, you must measure CO emissions using one of the CO measurement methods specified in Table 4 of this subpart, or using appendix A to this subpart.

(4) If you are demonstrating compliance with the THC percent reduction requirement, you must measure THC emissions using Method 25A, reported as propane, of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(5) You must measure Ousing one of the Omeasurement methods specified in Table 4 of this subpart. Measurements to determine Oconcentration must be made at the same time as the measurements for CO or THC concentration.

(6) If you are demonstrating compliance with the CO or THC percent reduction requirement, you must measure CO or THC emissions and Oemissions simultaneously at the inlet and outlet of the control device.

(7) If the results of the annual compliance demonstration show that the emissions exceed the levels specified in Table 6 of this subpart, the stationary RICE must be shut down as soon as safely possible, and appropriate corrective action must be taken (e.g., repairs, catalyst cleaning, catalyst replacement). The stationary RICE must be retested within 7 days of being restarted and the emissions must meet the levels specified in Table 6 of this subpart. If the retest shows that the emissions continue to exceed the specified levels, the stationary RICE must again be shut down as soon as safely possible, and the stationary RICE may not operate, except for purposes of startup and testing, until the owner/operator demonstrates through testing that the emissions do not exceed the levels specified in Table 6 of this subpart.

(d) For new, reconstructed, and rebuilt stationary RICE, deviations from the emission or operating limitations that occur during the first 200 hours of operation from engine startup (engine burn-in period) are not violations. Rebuilt stationary RICE means a stationary RICE that has been rebuilt as that term is defined in 40 CFR 94.11(a).

(e) You must also report each instance in which you did not meet the requirements in Table 8 to this subpart that apply to you. If you own or operate a new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions (except new or reconstructed 4SLB engines greater than or equal to 250 and less than or equal to 500 brake HP), a new or reconstructed stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions, or any of the following RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, you do not need to comply with the requirements in Table 8 to this subpart: An existing 2SLB stationary RICE, an existing 4SLB stationary RICE, an existing emergency stationary RICE, an existing limited use stationary RICE, or an existing stationary RICE which fires landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis. If you own or operate any of the following RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions, you do not need to comply with the requirements in Table 8 to this subpart, except for the initial notification requirements: a new or reconstructed stationary RICE that combusts landfill gas or digester gas equivalent to 10 percent or more of the gross heat input on an annual basis, a new or reconstructed emergency stationary RICE, or a new or reconstructed limited use stationary RICE.

(f) If you own or operate an emergency stationary RICE, you must operate the emergency stationary RICE according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section. In order for the engine to be considered an emergency stationary RICE under this subpart, any operation other than emergency operation, maintenance and testing, and operation in non-emergency situations for 50 hours per year, as described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4), is prohibited. If you do not operate the engine according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4), the engine will not be considered an emergency engine under this subpart and must meet all requirements for non-emergency engines.

(1) There is no time limit on the use of emergency stationary RICE in emergency situations.

(2) You may operate your emergency stationary RICE for the purpose specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section for a maximum of 100 hours per calendar year. Any operation for non-emergency situations as allowed by paragraphs (f)(3) and (4) of this section counts as part of the 100 hours per calendar year allowed by this paragraph (f)(2).

(i) Emergency stationary RICE may be operated for maintenance checks and readiness testing, provided that the tests are recommended by federal, state or local government, the manufacturer, the vendor, the regional transmission organization or equivalent balancing authority and transmission operator, or the insurance company associated with the engine. The owner or operator may petition the Administrator for approval of additional hours to be used for maintenance checks and readiness testing, but a petition is not required if the owner or operator maintains records indicating that federal, state, or local standards require maintenance and testing of emergency RICE beyond 100 hours per calendar year.

(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]

(3) Emergency stationary RICE located at major sources of HAP may be operated for up to 50 hours per calendar year in non-emergency situations. The 50 hours of operation in non-emergency situations are counted as part of the 100 hours per calendar year for maintenance and testing provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations cannot be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response, or to generate income for a facility to supply power to an electric grid or otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity.

(4) Emergency stationary RICE located at area sources of HAP may be operated for up to 50 hours per calendar year in non-emergency situations. The 50 hours of operation in non-emergency situations are counted as part of the 100 hours per calendar year for maintenance and testing provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Except as provided in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section, the 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations cannot be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response, or to generate income for a facility to an electric grid or otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity.

(i) Prior to May 3, 2014, the 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations can be used for peak shaving or non-emergency demand response to generate income for a facility, or to otherwise supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity if the engine is operated as part of a peak shaving (load management program) with the local distribution system operator and the power is provided only to the facility itself or to support the local distribution system.

(ii) The 50 hours per year for non-emergency situations can be used to supply power as part of a financial arrangement with another entity if all of the following conditions are met:

(A) The engine is dispatched by the local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator.

(B) The dispatch is intended to mitigate local transmission and/or distribution limitations so as to avert potential voltage collapse or line overloads that could lead to the interruption of power supply in a local area or region.

(C) The dispatch follows reliability, emergency operation or similar protocols that follow specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines.

(D) The power is provided only to the facility itself or to support the local transmission and distribution system.

(E) The owner or operator identifies and records the entity that dispatches the engine and the specific NERC, regional, state, public utility commission or local standards or guidelines that are being followed for dispatching the engine. The local balancing authority or local transmission and distribution system operator may keep these records on behalf of the engine owner or operator.
