
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.6645 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), (f)(4) and (f)(6), 63.9(b) through (e), and (g) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified if you own or operate any of the following;

(1) An existing stationary RICE with a site rating of less than or equal to 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(2) An existing stationary RICE located at an area source of HAP emissions.

(3) A stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(4) A new or reconstructed 4SLB stationary RICE with a site rating of greater than or equal to 250 HP located at a major source of HAP emissions.

(5) This requirement does not apply if you own or operate an existing stationary RICE less than 100 HP, an existing stationary emergency RICE, or an existing stationary RICE that is not subject to any numerical emission standards.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions before the effective date of this subpart, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than December 13, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions on or after August 16, 2004, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart.

(d) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your stationary RICE with a site rating of equal to or less than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions before the effective date of this subpart and you are required to submit an initial notification, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than July 16, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(e) If you start up your new or reconstructed stationary RICE with a site rating of equal to or less than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions on or after March 18, 2008 and you are required to submit an initial notification, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 days after you become subject to this subpart.

(f) If you are required to submit an Initial Notification but are otherwise not affected by the requirements of this subpart, in accordance with § 63.6590(b), your notification should include the information in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (v), and a statement that your stationary RICE has no additional requirements and explain the basis of the exclusion (for example, that it operates exclusively as an emergency stationary RICE if it has a site rating of more than 500 brake HP located at a major source of HAP emissions).

(g) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(h) If you are required to conduct a performance test or other initial compliance demonstration as specified in Tables 4 and 5 to this subpart, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii).

(1) For each initial compliance demonstration required in Table 5 to this subpart that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(2) For each initial compliance demonstration required in Table 5 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in Table 3 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2).

(i) If you own or operate an existing non-emergency CI RICE with a site rating of more than 300 HP located at an area source of HAP emissions that is certified to the Tier 1 or Tier 2 emission standards in Table 1 of 40 CFR 89.112 and subject to an enforceable state or local standard requiring engine replacement and you intend to meet management practices rather than emission limits, as specified in § 63.6603(d), you must submit a notification by March 3, 2013, stating that you intend to use the provision in § 63.6603(d) and identifying the state or local regulation that the engine is subject to.
