
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.6675 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## Emergency stationary RICE

means any stationary reciprocating internal combustion engine that meets all of the criteria in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this definition. All emergency stationary RICE must comply with the requirements specified in § 63.6640(f) in order to be considered emergency stationary RICE. If the engine does not comply with the requirements specified in § 63.6640(f), then it is not considered to be an emergency stationary RICE under this subpart.

(1) The stationary RICE is operated to provide electrical power or mechanical work during an emergency situation. Examples include stationary RICE used to produce power for critical networks or equipment (including power supplied to portions of a facility) when electric power from the local utility (or the normal power source, if the facility runs on its own power production) is interrupted, or stationary RICE used to pump water in the case of fire or flood, etc.

(2) The stationary RICE is operated under limited circumstances for situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition, as specified in § 63.6640(f).

(3) The stationary RICE operates as part of a financial arrangement with another entity in situations not included in paragraph (1) of this definition only as allowed in § 63.6640(f)(4)(i) or (ii).
