
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.6675 What definitions apply to this subpart?
######## Remote stationary RICE

means stationary RICE meeting any of the following criteria:

(1) Stationary RICE located in an offshore area that is beyond the line of ordinary low water along that portion of the coast of the United States that is in direct contact with the open seas and beyond the line marking the seaward limit of inland waters.

(2) Stationary RICE located on a pipeline segment that meets both of the criteria in paragraphs (2)(i) and (ii) of this definition.

(i) A pipeline segment with 10 or fewer buildings intended for human occupancy and no buildings with four or more stories within 220 yards (200 meters) on either side of the centerline of any continuous 1-mile (1.6 kilometers) length of pipeline. Each separate dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling unit building is counted as a separate building intended for human occupancy.

(ii) The pipeline segment does not lie within 100 yards (91 meters) of either a building or a small, well-defined outside area (such as a playground, recreation area, outdoor theater, or other place of public assembly) that is occupied by 20 or more persons on at least 5 days a week for 10 weeks in any 12-month period. The days and weeks need not be consecutive. The building or area is considered occupied for a full day if it is occupied for any portion of the day.

(iii) For purposes of this paragraph (2), the term pipeline segment means all parts of those physical facilities through which gas moves in transportation, including but not limited to pipe, valves, and other appurtenance attached to pipe, compressor units, metering stations, regulator stations, delivery stations, holders, and fabricated assemblies. Stationary RICE located within 50 yards (46 meters) of the pipeline segment providing power for equipment on a pipeline segment are part of the pipeline segment. Transportation of gas means the gathering, transmission, or distribution of gas by pipeline, or the storage of gas. A building is intended for human occupancy if its primary use is for a purpose involving the presence of humans.

(3) Stationary RICE that are not located on gas pipelines and that have 5 or fewer buildings intended for human occupancy and no buildings with four or more stories within a 0.25 mile radius around the engine. A building is intended for human occupancy if its primary use is for a purpose involving the presence of humans.
