
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Appendix A to Subpart ZZZZ of Part 63 - Protocol for Using an Electrochemical Analyzer to Determine Oxygen and Carbon Monoxide Concentrations From Certain Engines

This protocol is a procedure for using portable electrochemical (EC) cells for measuring carbon monoxide (CO) and oxygen (O) concentrations in controlled and uncontrolled emissions from existing stationary 4-stroke lean burn and 4-stroke rich burn reciprocating internal combustion engines as specified in the applicable rule.

This protocol measures the engine exhaust gas concentrations of carbon monoxide (CO) and oxygen (O).

This protocol is applicable to 40 CFR part 63, subpart ZZZZ. Because of inherent cross sensitivities of EC cells, you must not apply this protocol to other emissions sources without specific instruction to that effect.

Refer to Section 13 to verify and document acceptable analyzer performance.

The measurement system and EC cell design(s) conforming to this protocol will determine the analytical range for each gas component. The nominal ranges are defined by choosing up-scale calibration gas concentrations near the maximum anticipated flue gas concentrations for CO and O, or no more than twice the permitted CO level.

The minimum detectable limit depends on the nominal range and resolution of the specific EC cell used, and the signal to noise ratio of the measurement system. The minimum detectable limit should be 2 percent of the nominal range or 1 ppm, whichever is less restrictive.

In this protocol, a gas sample is extracted from an engine exhaust system and then conveyed to a portable EC analyzer for measurement of CO and Ogas concentrations. This method provides measurement system performance specifications and sampling protocols to ensure reliable data. You may use additions to, or modifications of vendor supplied measurement systems (e.g., heated or unheated sample lines, thermocouples, flow meters, selective gas scrubbers, etc.) to meet the design specifications of this protocol. Do not make changes to the measurement system from the as-verified configuration (Section 3.12).
