
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Appendix A to Subpart ZZZZ of Part 63 - Protocol for Using an Electrochemical Analyzer to Determine Oxygen and Carbon Monoxide Concentrations From Certain Engines
####### 3.9 Sampling Run.

A timed three-phase event whereby an EC cell's response rises and plateaus in a sample conditioning phase, remains relatively constant during a measurement data phase, then declines during a refresh phase. The sample conditioning phase exposes the EC cell to the gas sample for a length of time sufficient to reach a constant response. The measurement data phase is the time interval during which gas sample measurements can be made that meet the acceptance criteria of this protocol. The refresh phase then purges the EC cells with CO-free air. The refresh phase replenishes requisite Oand moisture in the electrolyte reserve and provides a mechanism to de-gas or desorb any interference gas scrubbers or filters so as to enable a stable CO EC cell response. There are four primary types of sampling runs: pre- sampling calibrations; stack gas sampling; post-sampling calibration checks; and measurement system repeatability checks. Stack gas sampling runs can be chained together for extended evaluations, providing all other procedural specifications are met.
