
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZ - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Stationary Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines
###### Appendix A to Subpart ZZZZ of Part 63 - Protocol for Using an Electrochemical Analyzer to Determine Oxygen and Carbon Monoxide Concentrations From Certain Engines
####### 8.2 Stack Gas Collection and Analysis.

Prior to the first stack gas sampling run, conduct that the pre-sampling calibration in accordance with Section 10.1. Use Figure 1 to record all data. Zero the analyzer with zero gas. Confirm and record that the scrubber media color is correct and not exhausted. Then position the probe at the sampling point and begin the sampling run at the same flow rate used during the up-scale calibration. Record the start time. Record all EC cell output responses and the flow rate during the "sample conditioning phase" once per minute until constant readings are obtained. Then begin the "measurement data phase" and record readings every 15 seconds for at least two minutes (or eight readings), or as otherwise required to achieve two continuous minutes of data that meet the specification given in Section 13.1. Finally, perform the "refresh phase" by introducing dry air, free from CO and other combustion gases, until several minute-to-minute readings of consistent value have been obtained. For each run use the "measurement data phase" readings to calculate the average stack gas CO and Oconcentrations.
