
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lime Manufacturing Plants
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7100 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must be in compliance with the emission limitations (including operating limits) in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must be in compliance with the applicable emission limitations (including operating limits) at all times.

(b) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must be in compliance with the opacity and visible emission (VE) limits in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must be in compliance with the applicable opacity and VE limits at all times.

(c) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must always operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(d) You must prepare and implement for each LMP, a written operations, maintenance, and monitoring (OM&M) plan. You must submit the plan to the applicable permitting authority for review and approval as part of the application for a 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 permit. Any subsequent changes to the plan must be submitted to the applicable permitting authority for review and approval. Pending approval by the applicable permitting authority of an initial or amended plan, you must comply with the provisions of the submitted plan. Each plan must contain the following information:

(1) Process and control device parameters to be monitored to determine compliance, along with established operating limits or ranges, as applicable, for each emission unit.

(2) A monitoring schedule for each emission unit.

(3) Procedures for the proper operation and maintenance of each emission unit and each air pollution control device used to meet the applicable emission limitations and operating limits in Tables 1, 2 and 3 to this subpart, respectively. On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), your OM&M plan must address periods of startup and shutdown.

(4) Procedures for the proper installation, operation, and maintenance of monitoring devices or systems used to determine compliance, including:

(i) Calibration and certification of accuracy of each monitoring device;

(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems;

(iii) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(1)(i) and (ii), (3), and (4)(ii). On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of paragraph (c) of this section and §§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (3), and (4)(ii); and

(iv) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d).

(5) Procedures for monitoring process and control device parameters.

(6) Corrective actions to be taken when process or operating parameters or add-on control device parameters deviate from the operating limits specified in Table 3 to this subpart, including:

(i) Procedures to determine and record the cause of a deviation or excursion, and the time the deviation or excursion began and ended; and

(ii) Procedures for recording the corrective action taken, the time corrective action was initiated, and the time and date the corrective action was completed.

(7) A maintenance schedule for each emission unit and control device that is consistent with the manufacturer's instructions and recommendations for routine and long-term maintenance.

(e) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3).
