
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lime Manufacturing Plants
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7082 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each existing or new lime kiln(s) and their associated cooler(s), and processed stone handling (PSH) operations system(s) located at an LMP that is a major source.

(b) A new lime kiln is a lime kiln, and (if applicable) its associated lime cooler, for which construction or reconstruction began after December 20, 2002, if you met the applicability criteria in ยง 63.7081 at the time you began construction or reconstruction.

(c) A new PSH operations system is the equipment in paragraph (g) of this section, for which construction or reconstruction began after December 20, 2002, if you met the applicability criteria in ยง 63.7081 at the time you began construction or reconstruction.

(d) A lime kiln or PSH operations system is reconstructed if it meets the criteria for reconstruction defined in ยง 63.2.

(e) An existing lime kiln is any lime kiln, and (if applicable) its associated lime cooler, that does not meet the definition of a new kiln of paragraph (b) of this section.

(f) An existing PSH operations system is any PHS operations system that does not meet the definition of a new PSH operations system in paragraph (c) of this section.

(g) A PSH operations system includes all equipment associated with PSH operations beginning at the processed stone storage bin(s) or open storage pile(s) and ending where the processed stone is fed into the kiln. It includes man-made processed stone storage bins (but not open processed stone storage piles), conveying system transfer points, bulk loading or unloading systems, screening operations, surge bins, bucket elevators, and belt conveyors. No other materials processing operations are subject to this subpart.

(h) Nuisance dust collectors on lime coolers are part of the lime materials processing operations and are not covered by this subpart.

(i) Lime hydrators are not subject to this subpart.

(j) Open material storage piles are not subject to this subpart.
