
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lime Manufacturing Plants
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7130 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.6(h)(4) and (5); 63.7(b) and (c); 63.8(e); (f)(4) and (6); and 63.9 (a) through (j) that apply to you, by the dates specified.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your affected source before January 5, 2004, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 calendar days after January 5, 2004, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) If you startup your new or reconstructed affected source on or after January 5, 2004, you must submit an initial notification not later than 120 calendar days after you start up your affected source, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test, design evaluation, opacity observation, VE observation, or other initial compliance demonstration as specified in Table 4 or 5 to this subpart, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). Beginning on the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), submit all subsequent Notification of Compliance Status following the procedure specified in § 63.7131(h).

(1) For each initial compliance demonstration required in Table 4 to this subpart that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(2) For each compliance demonstration required in Table 6 to this subpart that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in Table 5 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2).
