
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lime Manufacturing Plants
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7112 What performance tests, design evaluations, and other procedures must I use?
######## i.e.,

(b) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1) and under the specific conditions specified in Table 5 to this subpart. On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), each performance test must be conducted based on representative performance (performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source and under the specific conditions in Table 5 to this subpart. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(c) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 63.7(e)(1). On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), you may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) Except for opacity and VE observations, you must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(e) The emission rate of particulate matter (PM) from each lime kiln (and each lime cooler if there is a separate exhaust to the atmosphere from the lime cooler) must be computed for each run using Equation 1 of this section:

(f)(1) If you choose to meet a weighted average emission limit as specified in item 4 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate a combined particulate emission rate from all kilns and coolers within your LMP using Equation 2 of this section:

(2) You do not have to include every kiln in this calculation, only include kilns you wish to average. Kilns that have a PM emission limit of 0.60 lb/tsf are ineligible for any averaging.

(g) The weighted average PM emission limit from all kilns and coolers for which you are averaging must be calculated using Equation 3 of this section:

(h) Performance test results must be documented in complete test reports that contain the information required by paragraphs (h)(1) through (10) of this section, as well as all other relevant information. The plan to be followed during testing must be made available to the Administrator at least 60 days prior to testing.

(1) A brief description of the process and the air pollution control system;

(2) Sampling location description(s);

(3) A description of sampling and analytical procedures and any modifications to standard procedures;

(4) Test results, including opacity;

(5) Quality assurance procedures and results;

(6) Records of operating conditions during the test, preparation of standards, and calibration procedures;

(7) Raw data sheets for field sampling and field and laboratory analyses;

(8) Documentation of calculations;

(9) All data recorded and used to establish operating limits; and

(10) Any other information required by the test method.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) You must establish any applicable 3-hour block average operating limit indicated in Table 3 to this subpart according to the applicable requirements in Table 4 to this subpart and paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Continuously record the parameter during the PM performance test and include the parameter record(s) in the performance test report.

(2) Determine the average parameter value for each 15-minute period of each test run.

(3) Calculate the test run average for the parameter by taking the average of all the 15-minute parameter values for the run.

(4) Calculate the 3-hour operating limit by taking the average of the three test run averages.

(k) For each building enclosing any PSH operations that is subject to a VE limit, you must conduct a VE check according to item 18 in Table 5 to this subpart, and in accordance with paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Conduct visual inspections that consist of a visual survey of the building over the test period to identify if there are VE, other than condensed water vapor.

(2) Select a position at least 15 but not more 1,320 feet from each side of the building with the sun or other light source generally at your back.

(3) The observer conducting the VE checks need not be certified to conduct EPA Method 9 in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter. However, the observer must meet the training requirements as described in EPA Method 22 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.

(l) When determining compliance with the opacity standards for fugitive emissions from PSH operations in item 8 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct EPA Method 9 in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter according to item 17 in Table 5 to this subpart, and in accordance with paragraphs (l)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The minimum distance between the observer and the emission source shall be 4.57 meters (15 feet).
