
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lime Manufacturing Plants
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7121 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations standard?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limitation in Tables 1 and 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Tables 6 and 7 to this subpart.

(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each operating limit, opacity limit, and VE limit in Tables 2, 3 and 7 to this subpart that applies to you. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.7131.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e).

(e) For each PSH operation subject to an opacity limit as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and any vents from buildings subject to an opacity limit, you must conduct a VE check according to item 1 in Table 7 to this subpart, and as follows:

(1) Conduct visual inspections that consist of a visual survey of each stack or process emission point over the test period to identify if there are VE, other than condensed water vapor.

(2) Select a position at least 15 but not more 1,320 feet from the affected emission point with the sun or other light source generally at your back.

(3) The observer conducting the VE checks need not be certified to conduct EPA Method 9 in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter but must meet the training requirements as described in EPA Method 22 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.

(f) For existing lime kilns and their associated coolers, you may perform VE measurements in accordance with EPA Method 9 of appendix A to part 60 in lieu of installing a COMS or PM detector if any of the conditions in paragraphs (f)(1) or (3) of this section exist:

(1) You use a FF for PM control, and the FF is under positive pressure and has multiple stacks; or

(2) The control device exhausts through a monovent; or

(3) The installation of a COMS in accordance with PS-1 of appendix B to part 60 is infeasible.
