
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lime Manufacturing Plants
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7132 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Prior to the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction. On and after the relevant compliance date for your source as specified in § 63.7083(e), the records in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must keep records for each startup period of the date, the time startup began, the time began producing on-specification lime product, and the time discharge from the kiln began for any affected source that is subject to a standard during startup that differs from the standard applicable at other times.

(ii) You must keep records of the date, time, cause and duration of each malfunction (as defined in 40 CFR 63.2) that causes an affected source to fail to meet an applicable standard; if there was also a monitoring malfunction, the date, time, cause, and duration of the monitoring malfunction; the record must list the affected source or equipment; if there was a failure to meet a particulate matter emissions limit, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(3) Records of performance tests, performance evaluations, and opacity and VE observations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(b) You must keep the records in § 63.6(h)(6) for VE observations.

(c) You must keep the records required by Tables 6 and 7 to this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you.

(d) You must keep the records which document the basis for the initial applicability determination as required under § 63.7081.
