
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Semiconductor Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7183 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source before May 22, 2003, then you must comply with the emission standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than May 22, 2003.

(2) If you start up your affected source after May 22, 2003, then you must comply with the emission standards for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the emission standards for existing sources no later than 3 years from May 22, 2003.

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP and an affected source subject to this subpart, paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) Any portion of your existing facility that is a new affected source as specified at ยง 63.7182(c), or a reconstructed affected source as specified at ยง 63.7182(d), must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) Any portion of your facility that is an existing affected source, as specified at ยง 63.7182(e), must be in compliance with this subpart by not later than 3 years after it becomes a major source.
