
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Semiconductor Manufacturing
###### Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7187 What performance tests and other compliance procedures must I use?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you as specified for process vents in § 63.982(a)(2) and storage tanks in § 63.982(a)(1). Performance tests must be conducted under maximum operating conditions or HAP emissions potential. Section 63.982(a)(1) and (2) only includes methods to measure the total organic regulated material or total organic carbon (TOC) concentration. The EPA Methods 26 and 26A are included in Table 1 to this subpart in addition to the test methods contained within § 63.982(a)(1) and (2). The EPA Method 26 or 26A must be used for testing regulated material containing inorganic HAP. Method 320 of 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, must be used to measure total vapor phase organic and inorganic HAP concentrations.

(b) If, without the use of a control device, your process vent stream has an organic HAP concentration of 20 ppmv or less or an inorganic HAP concentration of 0.42 ppmv or less, or your storage tank vent stream has an inorganic HAP concentration of 0.42 ppmv or less, you may demonstrate that the vent stream is compliant by engineering assessments and calculations or by conducting the applicable performance test requirements specified in Table 1 to this subpart. Your engineering assessments and calculations, as with performance tests (as specified in § 63.982(a)(1) and (2)), must represent your maximum operating conditions or HAP emissions potential and must be approved by the Administrator. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by certifying that your operations will not exceed the maximum operating conditions or HAP emissions potential represented by your engineering assessments, calculations, or performance test.

(c) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limitations in § 63.7184 and the inlet concentration of HAP to the control device is 20 ppmv or less, then you may demonstrate that the control device meets the percent by weight HAP emission reduction limitation in § 63.7184(c)(1) or (d)(1) by conducting a design evaluation as specified in paragraph (i) of this section. Your design evaluation must represent your maximum operating conditions or HAP emissions potential and must be approved by the Administrator. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by certifying that your operations will not exceed the maximum operating conditions or HAP emissions potential represented by your design evaluation.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) For each monitoring system required in this section, you must develop and submit for approval a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the criteria specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
