
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.7292 What work practice standards must I meet for fugitive pushing emissions if I have a by-product coke oven battery with horizontal flues?

(a) You must comply with each of the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Prepare and operate by a written plan that will eliminate or minimize incomplete coking for each by-product coke oven battery with horizontal flues. You must submit the plan and supporting documentation to the Administrator (or delegated authority) for approval no later than 90 days after completing all observations and measurements required for the study in paragraph (a)(3) of this section or April 14, 2004, whichever is earlier. You must begin operating by the plan requirements by the compliance date that is specified in ยง 63.7283. The written plan must identify minimum flue temperatures for different coking times and a battery-wide minimum acceptable flue temperature for any oven at any coking time.

(2) Submit the written plan and supporting documentation to the Administrator (or delegated authority) for review and approval. Include all data collected during the study described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If the Administrator (or delegated authority) disapproves the plan, you must revise the plan as directed by the Administrator (or delegated authority) and submit the amended plan for approval. The Administrator (or delegated authority) may require you to collect and submit additional data. You must operate according to your submitted plan (or submitted amended plan, if any) until the Administrator (or delegated authority) approves your plan.

(3) You must base your written plan on a study that you conduct that meets each of the requirements listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (x) of this section.

(i) Initiate the study by July 14, 2003. Notify the Administrator (or delegated authority) at least 7 days prior to initiating the study according to the requirements in ยง 63.7340(f).

(ii) Conduct the study under representative operating conditions, including but not limited to the range of moisture content and volatile matter in the coal that is charged.

(iii) Include every oven in the study and observe at least two pushes from each oven.

(iv) For each push observed, measure and record the temperature of every flue within 2 hours before the scheduled pushing time. Document the oven number, date, and time the oven was charged and pushed, and calculate the net coking time.

(v) For each push observed, document the factors to be used to identify pushes that are incompletely coked. These factors must include (but are not limited to): average opacity during the push, average opacity during travel to the quench tower, average of six highest consecutive observations during both push and travel, highest single opacity reading, color of the emissions (especially noting any yellow or brown emissions), presence of excessive smoke during travel to the quench tower, percent volatile matter in the coke, percent volatile matter and percent moisture in the coal that is charged, and the date the oven was last rebuilt or completely relined. Additional documentation may be provided in the form of pictures or videotape of emissions during the push and travel. All opacity observations must be conducted in accordance with the procedures in ยง 63.7334(a)(3) through (7).

(vi) Inspect the inside walls of the oven after each observed push for cool spots as indicated by a flue that is darker than others (the oven walls should be red hot) and record the results.
