
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.7295 What requirements must I meet for quenching?

(a) You must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section for each quench tower and backup quench station at a new or existing coke oven battery.

(1) For the quenching of hot coke, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The concentration of total dissolved solids (TDS) in the water used for quenching must not exceed 1,100 milligrams per liter (mg/L); or

(ii) The sum of the concentrations of benzene, benzo(a)pyrene, and naphthalene in the water used for quenching must not exceed the applicable site-specific limit approved by the permitting authority.

(2) You must use acceptable makeup water, as defined in ยง 63.7352, as makeup water for quenching.

(b) For each quench tower at a new or existing coke oven battery and each backup quench station at a new coke oven battery, you must meet each of the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must equip each quench tower with baffles such that no more than 5 percent of the cross sectional area of the tower may be uncovered or open to the sky.

(2) You must wash the baffles in each quench tower once each day that the tower is used to quench coke, except as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You are not required to wash the baffles in a quench tower if the highest measured ambient temperature remains less than 30 degrees Fahrenheit throughout that day (24-hour period). If the measured ambient temperature rises to 30 degrees Fahrenheit or more during the day, you must resume daily washing according to the schedule in your operation and maintenance plan.

(ii) You must continuously record the ambient temperature on days that the baffles were not washed.

(3) You must inspect each quench tower monthly for damaged or missing baffles and blockage.

(4) You must initiate repair or replacement of damaged or missing baffles within 30 days and complete as soon as practicable.

(c) As provided in ยง 63.6(g), you may request to use an alternative to the work practice standards in paragraph (b) of this section.
