
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### § 63.7291 What work practice standards must I meet for fugitive pushing emissions if I have a by-product coke oven battery with vertical flues?

(a) You must meet each requirement in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section for each new or existing by-product coke oven battery with vertical flues.

(1) Observe and record the opacity of fugitive pushing emissions from each oven at least once every 90 days. If an oven cannot be observed during a 90-day period due to circumstances that were not reasonably avoidable, you must observe the opacity of the first push of that oven following the close of the 90-day period that is capable of being observed in accordance with the procedures in § 63.7334(a), and you must document why the oven was not observed within a 90-day period. All opacity observations of fugitive pushing emissions for batteries with vertical flues must be made using the procedures in § 63.7334(a).

(2) If two or more batteries are served by the same pushing equipment and total no more than 90 ovens, the batteries as a unit can be considered a single battery.

(3) Observe and record the opacity of fugitive pushing emissions for at least four consecutive pushes per battery each day. Exclude any push during which the observer's view is obstructed or obscured by interferences and observe the next available push to complete the set of four pushes. If necessary due to circumstances that were not reasonably avoidable, you may observe fewer than four consecutive pushes in a day; however, you must observe and record as many consecutive pushes as possible and document why four consecutive pushes could not be observed. You may observe and record one or more non-consecutive pushes in addition to any consecutive pushes observed in a day.

(4) Do not alter the pushing schedule to change the sequence of consecutive pushes to be observed on any day. Keep records indicating the legitimate operational reason for any change in your pushing schedule which results in a change in the sequence of consecutive pushes observed on any day.

(5) If the average opacity for any individual push exceeds 30 percent opacity for any short battery or 35 percent opacity for any tall battery, you must take corrective action and/or increase coking time for that oven. You must complete corrective action or increase coking time within either 10 calendar days or the number of days determined using Equation 1 of this section, whichever is greater:

(6)(i) You must demonstrate that the corrective action and/or increased coking time was successful. After a period of time no longer than the number of days allowed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, observe and record the opacity of the first two pushes for the oven capable of being observed using the procedures in § 63.7334(a). The corrective action and/or increased coking time was successful if the average opacity for each of the two pushes is 30 percent or less for a short battery or 35 percent or less for a tall battery. If the corrective action and/or increased coking time was successful, you may return the oven to the 90-day reading rotation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the average opacity of either push exceeds 30 percent for a short battery or 35 percent for a tall battery, the corrective action and/or increased coking time was unsuccessful, and you must complete additional corrective action and/or increase coking time for that oven within the number of days allowed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(ii) After implementing any additional corrective action and/or increased coking time required under paragraph (a)(6)(i) or (a)(7)(ii) of this section, you must demonstrate that corrective action and/or increased coking time was successful. After a period of time no longer than the number of days allowed in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, you must observe and record the opacity of the first two pushes for the oven capable of being observed using the procedures in § 63.7334(a). The corrective action and/or increased coking time was successful if the average opacity for each of the two pushes is 30 percent or less for a short battery or 35 percent or less for a tall battery. If the corrective action and/or increased coking time was successful, you may return the oven to the 90-day reading rotation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the average opacity of either push exceeds 30 percent for a short battery or 35 percent for a tall battery, the corrective action and/or increased coking time was unsuccessful, and you must follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(iii) of this section.

(iii) If the corrective action and/or increased coking time was unsuccessful as described in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section, you must repeat the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section until the corrective action and/or increased coking time is successful. You must report to the permitting authority as a deviation each unsuccessful attempt at corrective action and/or increased coking time under paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section.

(7)(i) If at any time you place an oven on increased coking time as a result of fugitive pushing emissions that exceed 30 percent for a short battery or 35 percent for a tall battery, you must keep the oven on the increased coking time until the oven qualifies for decreased coking time using the procedures in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) or (a)(7)(iii) of this section.

(ii) To qualify for a decreased coking time for an oven placed on increased coking time in accordance with paragraph (a)(5) or (6) of this section, you must operate the oven on the decreased coking time. After no more than two coking cycles on the decreased coking time, you must observe and record the opacity of the first two pushes that are capable of being observed using the procedures in § 63.7334(a). If the average opacity for each of the two pushes is 30 percent or less for a short battery or 35 percent or less for a tall battery, you may keep the oven on the decreased coking time and return the oven to the 90-day reading rotation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the average opacity of either push exceeds 30 percent for a short battery or 35 percent for a tall battery, the attempt to qualify for a decreased coking time was unsuccessful. You must then return the oven to the previously established increased coking time, or implement other corrective action(s) and/or increased coking time. If you implement other corrective action and/or a coking time that is shorter than the previously established increased coking time, you must follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section to confirm that the corrective action(s) and/or increased coking time was successful.

(iii) If the attempt to qualify for decreased coking time was unsuccessful as described in paragraph (a)(7)(ii) of this section, you may again attempt to qualify for decreased coking time for the oven. To do this, you must operate the oven on the decreased coking time. After no more than two coking cycles on the decreased coking time, you must observe and record the opacity of the first two pushes that are capable of being observed using the procedures in § 63.7334(a). If the average opacity for each of the two pushes is 30 percent or less for a short battery or 35 percent or less for a tall battery, you may keep the oven on the decreased coking time and return the oven to the 90-day reading rotation described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section. If the average opacity of either push exceeds 30 percent for a short battery or 35 percent for a tall battery, the attempt to qualify for a decreased coking time was unsuccessful. You must then return the oven to the previously established increased coking time, or implement other corrective action(s) and/or increased coking time. If you implement other corrective action and/or a coking time that is shorter than the previously established increased coking time, you must follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(6)(ii) of this section to confirm that the corrective action(s) and/or increased coking time was successful.

(iv) You must report to the permitting authority as a deviation the second and any subsequent consecutive unsuccessful attempts on the same oven to qualify for decreased coking time as described in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section.

(b) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request to use an alternative to the work practice standards in paragraph (a) of this section.
