
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.7294 What work practice standard must I meet for soaking?

(a) For each new and existing by-product coke oven battery, you must prepare and operate at all times according to a written work practice plan for soaking. Each plan must include measures and procedures to:

(1) Train topside workers to identify soaking emissions that require corrective actions.

(2) Damper the oven off the collecting main prior to opening the standpipe cap.

(3) Determine the cause of soaking emissions that do not ignite automatically, including emissions that result from raw coke oven gas leaking from the collecting main through the damper, and emissions that result from incomplete coking.

(4) If soaking emissions are caused by leaks from the collecting main, take corrective actions to eliminate the soaking emissions. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to, reseating the damper, cleaning the flushing liquor piping, using aspiration, putting the oven back on the collecting main, or igniting the emissions.

(5) If soaking emissions are not caused by leaks from the collecting main, notify a designated responsible party. The responsible party must determine whether the soaking emissions are due to incomplete coking. If incomplete coking is the cause of the soaking emissions, you must put the oven back on the collecting main until it is completely coked or you must ignite the emissions.

(b) As provided in ยง 63.6(g), you may request to use an alternative to the work practice standard in paragraph (a) of this section.
