
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Operation and Maintenance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7300 What are my operation and maintenance requirements?

(a) As required by ยง 63.6(e)(1)(i), you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions at least to the levels required by this subpart.

(b) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written operation and maintenance plan for the general operation and maintenance of new or existing by-product coke oven batteries. Each plan must address, at a minimum, the elements listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Frequency and method of recording underfiring gas parameters.

(2) Frequency and method of recording battery operating temperature, including measurement of individual flue and cross-wall temperatures.

(3) Procedures to prevent pushing an oven before it is fully coked.

(4) Procedures to prevent overcharging and undercharging of ovens, including measurement of coal moisture, coal bulk density, and procedures for determining volume of coal charged.

(5) Frequency and procedures for inspecting flues, burners, and nozzles.

(6) Schedule and procedures for the daily washing of baffles.

(c) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written operation and maintenance plan for each capture system and control device applied to pushing emissions from a new or existing coke oven battery. Each plan must address at a minimum the elements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.
