
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7323 What procedures must I use to establish operating limits?

(a) For a venturi scrubber applied to pushing emissions from a coke oven battery, you must establish site-specific operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Using the continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) required in § 63.7330(b), measure and record the pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate for each particulate matter test run during periods of pushing. A minimum of one pressure drop measurement and one scrubber water flow rate measurement must be obtained for each push.

(2) Compute and record the average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate for each test run. Your operating limits are the lowest average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate values recorded during any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.

(b) For a hot water scrubber applied to pushing emissions from a coke oven battery, you must establish site-specific operating limits for water pressure and water temperature according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Using the CPMS required in § 63.7330(c), measure and record the hot water pressure and temperature for each particulate matter test run during periods of pushing. A minimum of one pressure measurement and one temperature measurement must be made just prior to each push by monitoring the hot water holding tank on the mobile scrubber car.

(2) Compute and record the average water pressure and temperature for each test run. Your operating limits are the lowest pressure and temperature values recorded during any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.

(c) For a capture system applied to pushing emissions from a coke oven battery, you must establish a site-specific operating limit according to the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) If you elect the operating limit in § 63.7290(b)(3) for volumetric flow rate, measure and record the total volumetric flow rate at the inlet of the control device during each push sampled for each particulate matter test run. Your operating limit is the lowest volumetric flow rate recorded during any of the three runs that meet the emission limit.

(2) If you elect the operating limit in § 63.7290(b)(3)(i) for fan motor amperes, measure and record the fan motor amperes during each push sampled for each particulate matter test run. Your operating limit is the lowest fan motor amperes recorded during any of the three runs that meet the emission limit.

(3) If you elect the operating limit in § 63.7290(b)(3)(ii) for static pressure or fan RPM, measure and record the static pressure at the inlet of the control device or fan RPM during each push sampled for each particulate matter test run. Your operating limit for static pressure is the minimum vacuum recorded during any of the three runs that meets the emission limit. Your operating limit for fan RPM is the lowest fan RPM recorded during any of the three runs that meets the emission limit.

(d) For a multicyclone applied to pushing emissions from a coke oven battery, you must establish a site-specific operating limit for pressure drop according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Using the CPMS required in § 63.7330(f), measure and record the pressure drop for each particulate matter test run during periods of pushing. A minimum of one pressure drop measurement must be obtained for each push.

(2) Compute and record the average pressure drop for each test run. Your operating limit is the highest average pressure drop value recorded during any of the three runs that meet the emission limit.

(e) You may change the operating limit for a venturi scrubber, capture system, or mobile control device that captures emissions during pushing if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator of your request to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.

(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate that emissions of particulate matter from the control device do not exceed the applicable limit in § 63.7290(a).

(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the applicable procedures in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.
