
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7334 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards that apply to me?

(a) For each by-product coke oven battery with vertical flues subject to the work practice standards for fugitive pushing emissions in § 63.7291(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section:

(1) Observe and record the opacity of fugitive emissions for four consecutive pushes per operating day, except you may make fewer or non-consecutive observations as permitted by § 63.7291(a)(3). Maintain records of the pushing schedule for each oven and records indicating the legitimate operational reason for any change in the pushing schedule according to § 63.7291(a)(4).

(2) Observe and record the opacity of fugitive emissions from each oven in a battery at least once every 90 days. If an oven cannot be observed during a 90-day period, observe and record the opacity of the first push of that oven following the close of the 90-day period that can be read in accordance with the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.

(3) Make all observations and calculations for opacity observations of fugitive pushing emissions in accordance with Method 9 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 using a Method 9 certified observer unless you have an approved alternative procedure under paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(4) Record pushing opacity observations at 15-second intervals as required in section 2.4 of Method 9 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 60). The requirement in section 2.4 of Method 9 for a minimum of 24 observations does not apply, and the data reduction requirements in section 2.5 of Method 9 do not apply. The requirement in § 63.6(h)(5)(ii)(B) for obtaining at least 3 hours of observations (thirty 6-minute averages) to demonstrate initial compliance does not apply.
