
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7331 What are the installation, operation, and maintenance requirements for my monitors?
######## e.g.,

(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (calibrations);

(4) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(1), (3), (4)(ii), (7), and (8);

(5) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and

(6) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance the general requirements of §§ 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(c) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(d) You must operate and maintain the CPMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(e) For each venturi scrubber applied to pushing emissions, you must install, operate, and maintain CPMS to measure and record the pressure drop across the scrubber and scrubber water flow rate during each push according to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each CPMS must complete a measurement at least once per push;

(2) Each CPMS must produce valid data for all pushes; and

(3) Each CPMS must determine and record the daily (24-hour) average of all recorded readings.

(f) For each hot water scrubber applied to pushing emissions, you must install, operate, and maintain CPMS to measure and record the water pressure and temperature during each push according to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(g) If you elect the operating limit in § 63.7290(b)(3) for a capture system applied to pushing emissions, you must install, operate, and maintain a device to measure the total volumetric flow rate at the inlet of the control device.

(h) If you elect the operating limit in § 63.7290(b)(3)(i) for a capture system applied to pushing emissions, you must install, operate, and maintain a device to measure the fan motor amperes.

(i) If you elect the operating limit in § 63.7290(b)(3)(ii) for a capture system applied to pushing emissions, you must install, operate and maintain a device to measure static pressure at the inlet of the control device or the fan RPM.

(j) For each by-product coke oven battery, you must install, operate, and maintain a COMS to measure and record the opacity of emissions exiting each stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You must install, operate, and maintain each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(e) and Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. Identify periods the COMS is out-of-control, including any periods that the COMS fails to pass a daily calibration drift assessment, quarterly performance audit, or annual zero alignment audit.

(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 and Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60;

(3) You must develop and implement a quality control program for operating and maintaining each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(d). At minimum, the quality control program must include a daily calibration drift assessment, quarterly performance audit, and an annual zero alignment audit of each COMS;

(4) Each COMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period. You must reduce the COMS data as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(5) You must determine and record the hourly and daily (24-hour) average opacity according to the procedures in § 63.7324(b) using all the 6-minute averages collected for periods during which the COMS is not out-of-control.

(k) For each multicyclone applied to pushing emissions, you must install, operate, and maintain CPMS to measure and record the pressure drop across each multicyclone during each push according to the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section except as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.
