
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7334 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards that apply to me?
######## e.g.,

(ii) For a battery with a cokeside shed, the observer must be in a position that provides an unobstructed view and avoids interferences from the topside of the battery. Typical interferences to avoid include emissions from open standpipes and charging. Observations must include any fugitive emissions that escape from the top of the shed, from the ends of the shed, or from the area where the shed is joined to the battery. If the observer does not have a clear view to identify when a push starts or ends, a second person can be positioned to signal the start or end of the push and notify the observer when to start or end the observations. Radio communications with other plant personnel (pushing ram operator or quench car operator) may also serve to notify the observer of the start or end of a push. Record the oven number of any push not observed because of obstructions or interferences.

(iii) You may reposition after the push to observe emissions during travel if necessary.

(7) If it is infeasible to implement the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section for an oven due to physical obstructions, nighttime pushes, or other reasons, you may apply to your permitting authority for permission to use an alternative procedure. The application must provide a detailed explanation of why it is infeasible to use the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, identify the oven and battery numbers, and describe the alternative procedure. An alternative procedure must identify whether the coke in that oven is not completely coked, either before, during, or after an oven is pushed.

(8) For each oven observed that exceeds an opacity of 30 percent for any short battery or 35 percent for any tall battery, you must take corrective action and/or increase the coking time in accordance with § 63.7291(a). Maintain records documenting conformance with the requirements in § 63.7291(a).

(b) For each by-product coke oven battery with horizontal flues subject to the work practice standards for fugitive pushing emissions in § 63.7292(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by having met the requirements of paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Measuring and recording the temperature of all flues on two ovens per day within 2 hours before the oven's scheduled pushing time and ensuring that the temperature of each oven is measured and recorded at least once every month;

(2) Recording the time each oven is charged and pushed and calculating and recording the net coking time for each oven; and

(3) Increasing the coking time for each oven that falls below the minimum flue temperature trigger established for that oven's coking time in the written plan required in § 63.7292(a)(1), assigning the oven to the oven-directed program, and recording all relevant information according to the requirements in § 63.7292(a)(4) including, but not limited to, daily pushing schedules, diagnostic procedures, corrective actions, and oven repairs.

(c) For each non-recovery coke oven battery subject to the work practice standards in § 63.7293(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining records that document each visual inspection of an oven prior to pushing and that the oven was not pushed unless there was no smoke in the open space above the coke bed and there was an unobstructed view of the door on the opposite side of the oven.

(d) For each by-product coke oven battery subject to the work practice standard for soaking in § 63.7294(a), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by maintaining records that document conformance with requirements in § 63.7294(a)(1) through (5).

(e) For each coke oven battery subject to the work practice standard for quenching in § 63.7295(b), you must demonstrate continuous compliance according to the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Maintaining baffles in each quench tower such that no more than 5 percent of the cross-sectional area of the tower is uncovered or open to the sky as required in § 63.7295(b)(1);

(2) Maintaining records that document conformance with the washing, inspection, and repair requirements in § 63.7295(b)(2), including records of the ambient temperature on any day that the baffles were not washed; and

(3) Maintaining records of the source of makeup water to document conformance with the requirement for acceptable makeup water in § 63.7295(a)(2).
