
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7334 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the work practice standards that apply to me?
######## e.g.,

(5) If fewer than six but at least four 15-second observations can be made, use the average of the total number of observations to calculate average opacity for the push. Missing one or more observations during the push (as the quench car passes behind a building) does not invalidate the observations before or after the interference for that push. However, a minimum of four 15-second readings must be made for a valid observation.

(6) Begin observations for a push at the first detectable movement of the coke mass. End observations of a push when the quench car enters the quench tower.

(i) For a battery without a cokeside shed, observe fugitive pushing emissions from a position at least 10 meters from the quench car that provides an unobstructed view and avoids interferences from the topside of the battery. This may require the observer to be positioned at an angle to the quench car rather than perpendicular to it. Typical interferences to avoid include emissions from open standpipes and charging. Observe the opacity of emissions above the battery top with the sky as the background where possible. Record the oven number of any push not observed because of obstructions or interferences.
