
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Coke Ovens: Pushing, Quenching, and Battery Stacks
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.7341 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance report due dates.

(a)Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit quarterly compliance reports for battery stacks and semiannual compliance reports for all other affected sources to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The first quarterly compliance report for battery stacks must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in ยง 63.7283 and ending on the last date of the third calendar month. Each subsequent compliance report must cover the next calendar quarter.

(2) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in ยง 63.7283 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source. Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(3) All quarterly compliance reports for battery stacks must be postmarked or delivered no later than one calendar month following the end of the quarterly reporting period. All semiannual compliance reports must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(4) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.
