
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7491 Are any boilers or process heaters not subject to this subpart?

The types of boilers and process heaters listed in paragraphs (a) through (n) of this section are not subject to this subpart.

(a) An electric utility steam generating unit (EGU) covered by subpart UUUUU of this part or a natural gas-fired EGU as defined in subpart UUUUU of this part firing at least 85 percent natural gas on an annual heat input basis.

(b) A recovery boiler or furnace covered by subpart MM of this part.

(c) A boiler or process heater that is used specifically for research and development, including test steam boilers used to provide steam for testing the propulsion systems on military vessels. This does not include units that provide heat or steam to a process at a research and development facility.

(d) A hot water heater as defined in this subpart.

(e) A refining kettle covered by subpart X of this part.

(f) An ethylene cracking furnace covered by subpart YY of this part.

(g) Blast furnace stoves as described in EPA-453/R-01-005 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14).

(h) Any boiler or process heater that is part of the affected source subject to another subpart of this part, such as boilers and process heaters used as control devices to comply with subparts JJJ, OOO, PPP, and U of this part.

(i) Any boiler or process heater that is used as a control device to comply with another subpart of this part, or part 60, part 61, or part 65 of this chapter provided that at least 50 percent of the average annual heat input during any 3 consecutive calendar years to the boiler or process heater is provided by regulated gas streams that are subject to another standard.

(j) Temporary boilers and process heaters as defined in this subpart.

(k) Blast furnace gas fuel-fired boilers and process heaters as defined in this subpart.

(l) Any boiler or process heater specifically listed as an affected source in any standard(s) established under section 129 of the Clean Air Act.

(m) A unit that burns hazardous waste covered by Subpart EEE of this part. A unit that is exempt from Subpart EEE as specified in ยง 63.1200(b) is not covered by Subpart EEE.

(n) Residential boilers as defined in this subpart.
