
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.7495 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed boiler or process heater, you must comply with this subpart by April 1, 2013, or upon startup of your boiler or process heater, whichever is later.

(b) If you have an existing boiler or process heater, you must comply with this subpart no later than January 31, 2016, except as provided in § 63.6(i).

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP, paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply to you.

(1) Any new or reconstructed boiler or process heater at the existing source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) Any existing boiler or process heater at the existing source must be in compliance with this subpart within 3 years after the source becomes a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.7545 according to the schedule in § 63.7545 and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limits and work practice standards in this subpart.

(e) If you own or operate an industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler or process heater and would be subject to this subpart except for the exemption in § 63.7491(l) for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units covered by part 60, subpart CCCC or subpart DDDD, and you cease combusting solid waste, you must be in compliance with this subpart and are no longer subject to part 60, subparts CCCC or DDDD beginning on the effective date of the switch as identified under the provisions of § 60.2145(a)(2) and (3) or § 60.2710(a)(2) and (3).

(f) If you own or operate an existing EGU that becomes subject to this subpart after January 31, 2016, you must be in compliance with the applicable existing source provisions of this subpart on the effective date such unit becomes subject to this subpart.

(g) If you own or operate an existing industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler or process heater and would be subject to this subpart except for a exemption in § 63.7491(i) that becomes subject to this subpart after January 31, 2013, you must be in compliance with the applicable existing source provisions of this subpart within 3 years after such unit becomes subject to this subpart.

(h) If you own or operate an existing industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler or process heater and have switched fuels or made a physical change to the boiler or process heater that resulted in the applicability of a different subcategory after the compliance date of this subpart, you must be in compliance with the applicable existing source provisions of this subpart on the effective date of the fuel switch or physical change.

(i) If you own or operate a new industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler or process heater and have switched fuels or made a physical change to the boiler or process heater that resulted in the applicability of a different subcategory, you must be in compliance with the applicable new source provisions of this subpart on the effective date of the fuel switch or physical change.
