
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.7499 What are the subcategories of boilers and process heaters?

The subcategories of boilers and process heaters, as defined in ยง 63.7575 are:

(a) Pulverized coal/solid fossil fuel units.

(b) Stokers designed to burn coal/solid fossil fuel.

(c) Fluidized bed units designed to burn coal/solid fossil fuel.

(d) Stokers/sloped grate/other units designed to burn kiln dried biomass/bio-based solid.

(e) Fluidized bed units designed to burn biomass/bio-based solid.

(f) Suspension burners designed to burn biomass/bio-based solid.

(g) Fuel cells designed to burn biomass/bio-based solid.

(h) Hybrid suspension/grate burners designed to burn wet biomass/bio-based solid.

(i) Stokers/sloped grate/other units designed to burn wet biomass/bio-based solid.

(j) Dutch ovens/pile burners designed to burn biomass/bio-based solid.

(k) Units designed to burn liquid fuel that are non-continental units.

(l) Units designed to burn gas 1 fuels.

(m) Units designed to burn gas 2 (other) gases.

(n) Metal process furnaces.

(o) Limited-use boilers and process heaters.

(p) Units designed to burn solid fuel.

(q) Units designed to burn liquid fuel.

(r) Units designed to burn coal/solid fossil fuel.

(s) Fluidized bed units with an integrated fluidized bed heat exchanger designed to burn coal/solid fossil fuel.

(t) Units designed to burn heavy liquid fuel.

(u) Units designed to burn light liquid fuel.
