
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7490 What is the affected source of this subpart?

(a) This subpart applies to new, reconstructed, and existing affected sources as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The affected source of this subpart is the collection at a major source of all existing industrial, commercial, and institutional boilers and process heaters within a subcategory as defined in ยง 63.7575.

(2) The affected source of this subpart is each new or reconstructed industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler or process heater, as defined in ยง 63.7575, located at a major source.

(b) A boiler or process heater is new if you commence construction of the boiler or process heater after June 4, 2010, and you meet the applicability criteria at the time you commence construction.

(c) A boiler or process heater is reconstructed if you meet the reconstruction criteria as defined in ยง 63.2, you commence reconstruction after June 4, 2010, and you meet the applicability criteria at the time you commence reconstruction.

(d) A boiler or process heater is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.

(e) An existing electric utility steam generating unit (EGU) that meets the applicability requirements of this subpart after the effective date of this final rule due to a change (e.g., fuel switch) is considered to be an existing source under this subpart.
