
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7525 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) If your boiler or process heater is subject to a CO emission limit in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain an oxygen analyzer system, as defined in § 63.7575, or install, certify, operate and maintain continuous emission monitoring systems for CO and oxygen (O) (or carbon dioxide (CO)) according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Install the CO CEMS including an O(or CO) analyzer by the compliance date specified in § 63.7495. The CO and O(or CO) levels shall be monitored at the same location at the outlet of the boiler or process heater. An owner or operator may determine compliance with the CO emissions limit using a COanalyzer as the diluent monitor. If a COanalyzer is used as the diluent monitor, EPA Method 19 F-factors in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, for the fuel type(s) being burned in the unit and EPA Method 19 equations in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, must be used to calculate the emissions corrected to 3 percent Ousing the measured COpercentage, and must also take into account that the 3 percent oxygen correction is to be done on a dry basis. The equations used to calculate the emissions, must also account for any CObeing added to, or removed from, the emissions gas stream as a result of limestone injection, scrubber media, etc. The methodology used to calculate the CO emissions and the methodology used to account for any CObeing added to, or removed from the emissions gas stream shall be detailed and approved in the site-specific monitoring plan developed according to § 63.7505(d).

(2) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable alternative CO CEMS emission standard listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must install, certify, operate, and maintain a CO CEMS and an oxygen analyzer according to the applicable procedures under Performance Specification 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B; part 75 of this chapter (if an COanalyzer is used); the site-specific monitoring plan developed according to § 63.7505(d); and the requirements in § 63.7540(a)(8) and this paragraph (a). Any boiler or process heater that has a CO CEMS that is compliant with Performance Specification 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, a site-specific monitoring plan developed according to § 63.7505(d), and the requirements in § 63.7540(a)(8) and this paragraph (a) must use the CO CEMS to comply with the applicable alternative CO CEMS emission standard listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart.

(i) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CO CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(e) and according to Performance Specification 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(ii) During each relative accuracy test run of the CO CEMS, you must collect emission data for CO concurrently using both the CO CEMS and Method 10, 10A, or 10B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4. The relative accuracy testing must be conducted at representative operating conditions.

(iii) You must follow the quality assurance procedures (e.g., quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests) of Procedure 1 of appendix F to part 60. The measurement span value of the CO CEMS must be two times the applicable CO emission limit, expressed as a concentration.

(iv) Any CO CEMS that does not comply with this paragraph (a) cannot be used to meet any requirement in this subpart to demonstrate compliance with a CO emission limit listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart.

(v) For a new unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than July 30, 2013, or 180 days after the date of initial startup, whichever is later. For an existing unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than July 29, 2016.
