
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7510 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?

(a) For each boiler or process heater that is required or that you elect to demonstrate compliance with any of the applicable emission limits in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart through performance (stack) testing, your initial compliance requirements include all the following:

(1) Conduct performance tests according to § 63.7520 and Table 5 to this subpart.

(2) Conduct a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler or process heater according to § 63.7521 and Table 6 to this subpart, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For each boiler or process heater that burns a single type of fuel, you are not required to conduct a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler or process heater according to § 63.7521 and Table 6 to this subpart. For purposes of this subpart, units that use a supplemental fuel only for startup, unit shutdown, and transient flame stability purposes still qualify as units that burn a single type of fuel, and the supplemental fuel is not subject to the fuel analysis requirements under § 63.7521 and Table 6 to this subpart.

(ii) When natural gas, refinery gas, or other gas 1 fuels are co-fired with other fuels, you are not required to conduct a fuel analysis of those Gas 1 fuels according to § 63.7521 and Table 6 to this subpart. If gaseous fuels other than natural gas, refinery gas, or other gas 1 fuels are co-fired with other fuels and those non-Gas 1 gaseous fuels are subject to another subpart of this part, part 60, part 61, or part 65, you are not required to conduct a fuel analysis of those non-Gas 1 fuels according to § 63.7521 and Table 6 to this subpart.

(iii) You are not required to conduct a chlorine fuel analysis for any gaseous fuels. You must conduct a fuel analysis for mercury on gaseous fuels unless the fuel is exempted in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(3) Establish operating limits according to § 63.7530 and Table 7 to this subpart.

(4) Conduct CMS performance evaluations according to § 63.7525.

(b) For each boiler or process heater that you elect to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart for HCl, mercury, or TSM through fuel analysis, your initial compliance requirement is to conduct a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler or process heater according to § 63.7521 and Table 6 to this subpart and establish operating limits according to § 63.7530 and Table 8 to this subpart. The fuels described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section are exempt from these fuel analysis and operating limit requirements. The fuels described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section are exempt from the chloride fuel analysis and operating limit requirements. Boilers and process heaters that use a CEMS for mercury or HCl are exempt from the performance testing and operating limit requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section for the HAP for which CEMS are used.

(c) If your boiler or process heater is subject to a carbon monoxide (CO) limit, your initial compliance demonstration for CO is to conduct a performance test for CO according to Table 5 to this subpart or conduct a performance evaluation of your continuous CO monitor, if applicable, according to § 63.7525(a). Boilers and process heaters that use a CO CEMS to comply with the applicable alternative CO CEMS emission standard listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, as specified in § 63.7525(a), are exempt from the initial CO performance testing and oxygen concentration operating limit requirements specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) If your boiler or process heater is subject to a PM limit, your initial compliance demonstration for PM is to conduct a performance test in accordance with § 63.7520 and Table 5 to this subpart.

(e) For existing affected sources (as defined in § 63.7490), you must complete the initial compliance demonstrations, as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, no later than 180 days after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.7495 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2) as cited in Table 10 to this subpart, except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section. You must complete an initial tune-up by following the procedures described in § 63.7540(a)(10)(i) through (vi) no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.7495, except as specified in paragraph (j) of this section. You must complete the one-time energy assessment specified in Table 3 to this subpart no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.7495.

(f) For new or reconstructed affected sources (as defined in § 63.7490), you must complete the initial compliance demonstration with the emission limits no later than July 30, 2013, or within 180 days after startup of the source, whichever is later.

(1) If you are demonstrating compliance with an emission limit in Tables 11 through 13 to this subpart that is less stringent than the applicable emission limit in Table 14 to this subpart, you must demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 14 no later than July 29, 2016.

(2) If you are demonstrating compliance with an emission limit in Table 14 to this subpart that is less stringent than the applicable emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit in Table 1 no later than October 6, 2025.

(g) For new or reconstructed affected sources (as defined in § 63.7490), you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable work practice standards in Table 3 to this subpart within the applicable annual, biennial, or 5-year schedule as specified in § 63.7515(d) following the initial compliance date specified in § 63.7495(a). Thereafter, you are required to complete the applicable annual, biennial, or 5-year tune-up as specified in § 63.7515(d).

(h) For affected sources (as defined in § 63.7490) that ceased burning solid waste consistent with § 63.7495(e) and for which the initial compliance date has passed, you must demonstrate compliance within 60 days of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch. If you have not conducted your compliance demonstration for this subpart within the previous 12 months, you must complete all compliance demonstrations for this subpart before you commence or recommence combustion of solid waste.

(i) For an existing EGU that becomes subject after January 31, 2016, you must demonstrate compliance within 180 days after becoming an affected source.

(j) For existing affected sources (as defined in § 63.7490) that have not operated between the effective date of the rule and the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.7495, you must complete the initial compliance demonstration, if subject to the emission limits in Table 2 or 14 to this subpart, as applicable, as specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected source and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2) as cited in Table 10 to this subpart. You must complete an initial tune-up by following the procedures described in § 63.7540(a)(10)(i) through (vi) no later than 30 days after the re-start of the affected source and, if applicable, complete the one-time energy assessment specified in Table 3 to this subpart, no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.7495.

(k) For affected sources, as defined in § 63.7490, that switch subcategories consistent with § 63.7545(h) after the initial compliance date, you must demonstrate compliance within 60 days of the effective date of the switch, unless you had previously conducted your compliance demonstration for this subcategory within the previous 12 months.
