
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7505 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limits, work practice standards, and operating limits in this subpart. These emission and operating limits apply to you at all times the affected unit is operating except for the periods noted in § 63.7500(f).

(b) [Reserved]

(c) You must demonstrate compliance with all applicable emission limits using performance stack testing, fuel analysis, or continuous monitoring systems (CMS), including a continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS), continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS), continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS), or particulate matter continuous parameter monitoring system (PM CPMS), where applicable. You may demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for hydrogen chloride (HCl), mercury, or total selected metals (TSM) using fuel analysis if the emission rate calculated according to § 63.7530(c) is less than the applicable emission limit. For gaseous fuels, you may not use fuel analyses to comply with the TSM alternative standard or the HCl standard. Otherwise, you must demonstrate compliance for HCl, mercury, or TSM using performance stack testing, if subject to an applicable emission limit listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart.

(d) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emission limit through performance testing and subsequent compliance with operating limits through the use of CPMS, or with a CEMS or COMS, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section for the use of any CEMS, COMS, or CPMS. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f).

(1) For each CMS required in this section (including CEMS, COMS, or CPMS), you must develop, and submit to the Administrator for approval upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses design, data collection, and the quality assurance and quality control elements outlined in § 63.8(d) and the elements described in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan, if requested, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your CMS. This requirement to develop and submit a site specific monitoring plan does not apply to affected sources with existing CEMS or COMS operated according to the performance specifications under appendix B to part 60 of this chapter and that meet the requirements of § 63.7525. Using the process described in § 63.8(f)(4), you may request approval of alternative monitoring system quality assurance and quality control procedures in place of those specified in this paragraph and, if approved, include the alternatives in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(i) Installation of the CMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device);

(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems; and

(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations, accuracy audits, analytical drift).

(2) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii);

(ii) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d); and

(iii) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c) (as applicable in Table 10 to this subpart), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(e) If you have an applicable emission limit, and you choose to comply using definition (2) of "startup" in § 63.7575, you must develop and implement a written startup and shutdown plan (SSP) according to the requirements in Table 3 to this subpart. The SSP must be maintained onsite and available upon request for public inspection.
