
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7525 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## http://www.epa.gov/ttn/chief/ert/erttool.html/

(iv) Within 60 days after the date of completing each CEMS relative accuracy test audit or performance test conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, you must submit the relative accuracy test audit data and performance test data to the EPA by successfully submitting the data electronically into the EPA's Central Data Exchange by using the Electronic Reporting Tool (see).

(6) For a new unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than July 30, 2013, or 180 days after the date of initial startup, whichever is later. For an existing unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than July 29, 2016.

(7) Collect PM CEMS hourly average output data for all boiler or process heater operating hours except as indicated in § 63.7535(a) through (d).

(8) Calculate the arithmetic 30-day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CEMS output data collected during all boiler or process heater operating hours.

(c) If you have an applicable opacity operating limit in this rule, and are not otherwise required or elect to install and operate a PM CPMS, PM CEMS, or a bag leak detection system, you must install, operate, certify and maintain each COMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 63.7495.

(1) Each COMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to Performance Specification 1 at appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.

(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(e) and according to Performance Specification 1 at appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.

(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(i), each COMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(4) The COMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(5) You must include in your site-specific monitoring plan procedures and acceptance criteria for operating and maintaining each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(d). At a minimum, the monitoring plan must include a daily calibration drift assessment, a quarterly performance audit, and an annual zero alignment audit of each COMS.

(6) You must operate and maintain each COMS according to the requirements in the monitoring plan and the requirements of § 63.8(e). You must identify periods the COMS is out of control including any periods that the COMS fails to pass a daily calibration drift assessment, a quarterly performance audit, or an annual zero alignment audit. Any 6-minute period for which the monitoring system is out of control and data are not available for a required calculation constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.

(7) You must determine and record all the 6-minute averages (and daily block averages as applicable) collected for periods during which the COMS is not out of control.

(d) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a CMS other than a PM CPMS or COMS, you must install, operate, and maintain each CMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 63.7495.

(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation every 15-minutes. You must have a minimum of four successive cycles of operation, one representing each of the four 15-minute periods in an hour, to have a valid hour of data.

(2) You must operate the monitoring system as specified in § 63.7535(b), and comply with the data calculation requirements specified in § 63.7535(c).

(3) Any 15-minute period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for a required calculation constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements. Other situations that constitute a monitoring deviation are specified in § 63.7535(d).

(4) You must determine the 30-day rolling average of all recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.7535(c).

(5) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.

(e) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a flow monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d) and (e)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must install the flow sensor and other necessary equipment in a position that provides a representative flow.

(2) You must use a flow sensor with a measurement sensitivity of no greater than 2 percent of the design flow rate.

(3) You must minimize, consistent with good engineering practices, the effects of swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.

(4) You must conduct a flow monitoring system performance evaluation in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.

(f) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a pressure monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d) and (f)(1) through (6) of this section.
