
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7521 What fuel analyses, fuel specification, and procedures must I use?

(a) For solid and liquid fuels, you must conduct fuel analyses for chloride and mercury according to the procedures in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section and Table 6 to this subpart, as applicable. For solid fuels and liquid fuels, you must also conduct fuel analyses for TSM if you are opting to comply with the TSM alternative standard. For gas 2 (other) fuels, you must conduct fuel analyses for mercury according to the procedures in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section and Table 6 to this subpart, as applicable. For gaseous fuels, you may not use fuel analyses to comply with the TSM alternative standard or the HCl standard. For purposes of complying with this section, a fuel gas system that consists of multiple gaseous fuels collected and mixed with each other is considered a single fuel type and sampling and analysis is only required on the combined fuel gas system that will feed the boiler or process heater. Sampling and analysis of the individual gaseous streams prior to combining is not required. You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for fuels used for only startup, unit shutdown, and transient flame stability purposes. You are required to conduct fuel analyses only for fuels and units that are subject to emission limits for mercury, HCl, or TSM in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15 to this subpart. Gaseous and liquid fuels are exempt from the sampling requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(b) You must develop a site-specific fuel monitoring plan according to the following procedures and requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, if you are required to conduct fuel analyses as specified in § 63.7510.

(1) If you intend to use an alternative analytical method other than those required by Table 6 to this subpart, you must submit the fuel analysis plan to the Administrator for review and approval no later than 60 days before the date that you intend to conduct the initial compliance demonstration described in § 63.7510.

(2) You must include the information contained in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section in your fuel analysis plan.

(i) The identification of all fuel types anticipated to be burned in each boiler or process heater.

(ii) For each anticipated fuel type, the notification of whether you or a fuel supplier will be conducting the fuel analysis.

(iii) For each anticipated fuel type, a detailed description of the sample location and specific procedures to be used for collecting and preparing the composite samples if your procedures are different from paragraph (c) or (d) of this section. Samples should be collected at a location that most accurately represents the fuel type, where possible, at a point prior to mixing with other dissimilar fuel types.

(iv) For each anticipated fuel type, the analytical methods from Table 6, with the expected minimum detection levels, to be used for the measurement of chlorine or mercury.

(v) If you request to use an alternative analytical method other than those required by Table 6 to this subpart, you must also include a detailed description of the methods and procedures that you are proposing to use. Methods in Table 6 shall be used until the requested alternative is approved.

(vi) If you will be using fuel analysis from a fuel supplier in lieu of site-specific sampling and analysis, the fuel supplier must use the analytical methods required by Table 6 to this subpart.

(c) You must obtain composite fuel samples for each fuel type according to the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, or the methods listed in Table 6 to this subpart, or use an automated sampling mechanism that provides representative composite fuel samples for each fuel type that includes both coarse and fine material. At a minimum, for demonstrating initial compliance by fuel analysis, you must obtain three composite samples. For monthly fuel analyses, at a minimum, you must obtain a single composite sample. For fuel analyses as part of a performance stack test, as specified in § 63.7510(a), you must obtain a composite fuel sample during each performance test run.

(1) If sampling from a belt (or screw) feeder, collect fuel samples according to paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Stop the belt and withdraw a 6-inch wide sample from the full cross-section of the stopped belt to obtain a minimum two pounds of sample. You must collect all the material (fines and coarse) in the full cross-section. You must transfer the sample to a clean plastic bag.

(ii) Each composite sample will consist of a minimum of three samples collected at approximately equal intervals during the testing period for sampling during performance stack testing.

(2) If sampling from a fuel pile or truck, you must collect fuel samples according to paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For each composite sample, you must select a minimum of five sampling locations uniformly spaced over the surface of the pile.

(ii) At each sampling site, you must dig into the pile to a uniform depth of approximately 18 inches. You must insert a clean shovel into the hole and withdraw a sample, making sure that large pieces do not fall off during sampling; use the same shovel to collect all samples.

(iii) You must transfer all samples to a clean plastic bag for further processing.

(d) You must prepare each composite sample according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) You must thoroughly mix and pour the entire composite sample over a clean plastic sheet.

(2) You must break large sample pieces (e.g., larger than 3 inches) into smaller sizes.

(3) You must make a pie shape with the entire composite sample and subdivide it into four equal parts.

(4) You must separate one of the quarter samples as the first subset.

(5) If this subset is too large for grinding, you must repeat the procedure in paragraph (d)(3) of this section with the quarter sample and obtain a one-quarter subset from this sample.

(6) You must grind the sample in a mill.

(7) You must use the procedure in paragraph (d)(3) of this section to obtain a one-quarter subsample for analysis. If the quarter sample is too large, subdivide it further using the same procedure.

(e) You must determine the concentration of pollutants in the fuel (mercury and/or chlorine and/or TSM) in units of pounds per million Btu of each composite sample for each fuel type according to the procedures in Table 6 to this subpart, for use in Equations 7, 8, and 9 of this subpart.

(f) To demonstrate that a gaseous fuel other than natural gas or refinery gas qualifies as an other gas 1 fuel, as defined in § 63.7575, you must conduct a fuel specification analyses for mercury according to the procedures in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section and Table 6 to this subpart, as applicable, except as specified in paragraph (f)(1) through (4) of this section, or as an alternative where fuel specification analysis is not practical, you must measure mercury concentration in the exhaust gas when firing only the gaseous fuel to be demonstrated as an other gas 1 fuel in the boiler or process heater according to the procedures in Table 6 to this subpart.

(1) You are not required to conduct the fuel specification analyses in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section for natural gas or refinery gas.

(2) You are not required to conduct the fuel specification analyses in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section for gaseous fuels that are subject to another subpart of this part, part 60, part 61, or part 65.

(3) You are not required to conduct the fuel specification analyses in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section on gaseous fuels for units that are complying with the limits for units designed to burn gas 2 (other) fuels.

(4) You are not required to conduct the fuel specification analyses in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section for gas streams directly derived from natural gas at natural gas production sites or natural gas plants.

(g) You must develop a site-specific fuel analysis plan for other gas 1 fuels according to the following procedures and requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you intend to use an alternative analytical method other than those required by Table 6 to this subpart, you must submit the fuel analysis plan to the Administrator for review and approval no later than 60 days before the date that you intend to conduct the initial compliance demonstration described in § 63.7510.

(2) You must include the information contained in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section in your fuel analysis plan.

(i) The identification of all gaseous fuel types other than those exempted from fuel specification analysis under (f)(1) through (3) of this section anticipated to be burned in each boiler or process heater.

(ii) For each anticipated fuel type, the identification of whether you or a fuel supplier will be conducting the fuel specification analysis.

(iii) For each anticipated fuel type, a detailed description of the sample location and specific procedures to be used for collecting and preparing the samples if your procedures are different from the sampling methods contained in Table 6 to this subpart. Samples should be collected at a location that most accurately represents the fuel type, where possible, at a point prior to mixing with other dissimilar fuel types. If multiple boilers or process heaters are fueled by a common fuel stream it is permissible to conduct a single gas specification at the common point of gas distribution.

(iv) For each anticipated fuel type, the analytical methods from Table 6 to this subpart, with the expected minimum detection levels, to be used for the measurement of mercury.

(v) If you request to use an alternative analytical method other than those required by Table 6 to this subpart, you must also include a detailed description of the methods and procedures that you are proposing to use. Methods in Table 6 to this subpart shall be used until the requested alternative is approved.

(vi) If you will be using fuel analysis from a fuel supplier in lieu of site-specific sampling and analysis, the fuel supplier must use the analytical methods required by Table 6 to this subpart. When using a fuel supplier's fuel analysis, the owner or operator is not required to submit the information in § 63.7521(g)(2)(iii).

(h) You must obtain a single fuel sample for each fuel type for fuel specification of gaseous fuels.

(i) You must determine the concentration in the fuel of mercury, in units of microgram per cubic meter, dry basis, of each sample for each other gas 1 fuel type according to the procedures in Table 6 to this subpart.
