
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7525 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## e.g.,

(b) If your boiler or process heater is in the unit designed to burn coal/solid fossil fuel subcategory or the unit designed to burn heavy liquid subcategory and has an average annual heat input rate greater than 250 MMBtu per hour from solid fossil fuel and/or heavy liquid, and you demonstrate compliance with the PM limit instead of the alternative TSM limit, you must install, maintain, and operate a PM CPMS monitoring emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. As an alternative to use of a PM CPMS to demonstrate compliance with the PM limit, you may choose to use a PM CEMS. If you choose to use a PM CEMS to demonstrate compliance with the PM limit instead of the alternative TSM limit, you must install, certify, maintain, and operate a PM CEMS monitoring emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system as specified in paragraph (b)(5) through (8) of this section. For other boilers or process heaters, you may elect to use a PM CPMS or PM CEMS operated in accordance with this section in lieu of using other CMS for monitoring PM compliance (bag leak detectors, ESP secondary power, and PM scrubber pressure). Owners of boilers and process heaters who elect to comply with the alternative TSM limit are not required to install a PM CPMS.

(1) Install, operate, and maintain your PM CPMS according to the procedures in your approved site-specific monitoring plan developed in accordance with § 63.7505(d), the requirements in § 63.7540(a)(9), and paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The operating principle of the PM CPMS must be based on in-stack or extractive light scatter, light scintillation, beta attenuation, or mass accumulation detection of PM in the exhaust gas or representative exhaust gas sample. The reportable measurement output from the PM CPMS must be expressed as milliamps.

(ii) The PM CPMS must have a cycle time (i.e., period required to complete sampling, measurement, and reporting for each measurement) no longer than 60 minutes.

(iii) The PM CPMS must have a documented detection limit of 0.5 milligram per actual cubic meter, or less.

(2) For a new unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than July 30, 2013, or 180 days after the date of initial startup, whichever is later. For an existing unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than July 29, 2016.

(3) Collect PM CPMS hourly average output data for all boiler or process heater operating hours except as indicated in § 63.7535(a) through (d). Express the PM CPMS output as milliamps.

(4) Calculate the arithmetic 30-day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CPMS output data collected during all boiler or process heater operating hours (milliamps).

(5) Install, certify, operate, and maintain your PM CEMS according to the procedures in your approved site-specific monitoring plan developed in accordance with § 63.7505(d), the requirements in § 63.7540(a)(9), and paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You shall conduct a performance evaluation of the PM CEMS according to the applicable requirements of § 60.8(e), and Performance Specification 11 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B of this chapter.

(ii) During each PM correlation testing run of the CEMS required by Performance Specification 11 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B of this chapter, you shall collect PM and oxygen (or carbon dioxide) data concurrently (or within a 30-to 60-minute period) by both the CEMS and conducting performance tests using Method 5 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3 or Method 17 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 of this chapter.

(iii) You shall perform quarterly accuracy determinations and daily calibration drift tests in accordance with Procedure 2 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix F of this chapter. You must perform Relative Response Audits annually and perform Response Correlation Audits every 3 years.
