
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7515 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests, fuel analyses, or tune-ups?

(a) You must conduct all applicable performance tests according to § 63.7520 on an annual basis, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e), (g), and (h) of this section. Annual performance tests must be completed no more than 13 months after the previous performance test, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e), (g), and (h) of this section.

(b) If your performance tests for a given pollutant for at least 2 consecutive years show that your emissions are at or below 75 percent of the emission limit (or, in limited instances as specified in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15 to this subpart, at or below the emission limit) for the pollutant, and if there are no changes in the operation of the individual boiler or process heater or air pollution control equipment that could increase emissions, you may choose to conduct performance tests for the pollutant every third year. Each such performance test must be conducted no more than 37 months after the previous performance test. If you elect to demonstrate compliance using emission averaging under § 63.7522, you must continue to conduct performance tests annually. The requirement to test at maximum chloride input level is waived unless the stack test is conducted for HCl. The requirement to test at maximum mercury input level is waived unless the stack test is conducted for mercury. The requirement to test at maximum TSM input level is waived unless the stack test is conducted for TSM.

(c) If a performance test shows emissions exceeded the emission limit or 75 percent of the emission limit (as specified in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15 to this subpart) for a pollutant, you must conduct annual performance tests for that pollutant until all performance tests over a consecutive 2-year period meet the required level (at or below 75 percent of the emission limit, as specified in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15).

(d) If you are required to meet an applicable tune-up work practice standard, you must conduct an annual, biennial, or 5-year performance tune-up according to § 63.7540(a)(10), (11), or (12), respectively. Each annual tune-up specified in § 63.7540(a)(10) must be no more than 13 months after the previous tune-up. Each biennial tune-up specified in § 63.7540(a)(11) must be conducted no more than 25 months after the previous tune-up. Each 5-year tune-up specified in § 63.7540(a)(12) must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous tune-up. For a new or reconstructed affected source (as defined in § 63.7490), the first annual, biennial, or 5-year tune-up must be no later than 13 months, 25 months, or 61 months, respectively, after April 1, 2013 or the initial startup of the new or reconstructed affected source, whichever is later.

(e) If you demonstrate compliance with the mercury, HCl, or TSM based on fuel analysis, you must conduct a monthly fuel analysis according to § 63.7521 for each type of fuel burned that is subject to an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart. You may comply with this monthly requirement by completing the fuel analysis any time within the calendar month as long as the analysis is separated from the previous analysis by at least 14 calendar days. If you burn a new type of fuel, you must conduct a fuel analysis before burning the new type of fuel in your boiler or process heater. You must still meet all applicable continuous compliance requirements in § 63.7540. If each of 12 consecutive monthly fuel analyses demonstrates 75 percent or less of the compliance level, you may decrease the fuel analysis frequency to quarterly for that fuel. If any quarterly sample exceeds 75 percent of the compliance level or you begin burning a new type of fuel, you must return to monthly monitoring for that fuel, until 12 months of fuel analyses are again less than 75 percent of the compliance level. If sampling is conducted on 1 day per month, samples should be no less than 14 days apart, but if multiple samples are taken per month, the 14-day restriction does not apply.

(f) You must report the results of performance tests and the associated fuel analyses within 60 days after the completion of the performance tests. This report must also verify that the operating limits for each boiler or process heater have not changed or provide documentation of revised operating limits established according to § 63.7530 and Table 7 to this subpart, as applicable. The reports for all subsequent performance tests must include all applicable information required in § 63.7550.

(g) For affected sources (as defined in § 63.7490) that have not operated since the previous compliance demonstration and more than 1 year has passed since the previous compliance demonstration, you must complete the subsequent compliance demonstration, if subject to the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected source and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2) as cited in Table 10 to this subpart. You must complete a subsequent tune-up by following the procedures described in § 63.7540(a)(10)(i) through (vi) and the schedule described in § 63.7540(a)(13) for units that are not operating at the time of their scheduled tune-up.

(h) If your affected boiler or process heater is in the unit designed to burn light liquid subcategory and you combust ultra-low sulfur liquid fuel, you do not need to conduct further performance tests (stack tests or fuel analyses) if the pollutants measured during the initial compliance performance tests meet the emission limits in Tables 1 or 2 of this subpart providing you demonstrate ongoing compliance with the emissions limits by monitoring and recording the type of fuel combusted on a monthly basis. If you intend to use a fuel other than ultra-low sulfur liquid fuel, natural gas, refinery gas, or other gas 1 fuel, you must conduct new performance tests within 60 days of burning the new fuel type.

(i) If you operate a CO CEMS that meets the Performance Specifications outlined in § 63.7525(a)(3) to demonstrate compliance with the applicable alternative CO CEMS emission standard listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you are not required to conduct CO performance tests and are not subject to the oxygen concentration operating limit requirement specified in § 63.7510(a).
