
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7525 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## i.e.,

(vi) When COis used to correct CO emissions and COis measured on a wet basis, if needed, correct for moisture as follows: Install, operate, maintain, and quality assure a continuous moisture monitoring system for measuring and recording the moisture content of the flue gases, in order to correct the measured hourly volumetric flow rates for moisture when calculating CO concentrations. The following continuous moisture monitoring systems are acceptable: a continuous moisture sensor; an oxygen analyzer (or analyzers) capable of measuring Oboth on a wet basis and on a dry basis; or a stack temperature sensor and a moisture look-up table,a psychrometric chart (for saturated gas streams following wet scrubbers or other demonstrably saturated gas streams, only). The moisture monitoring system shall include as a component the automated data acquisition and handling system (DAHS) for recording and reporting both the raw data (e.g., hourly average wet-and dry-basis Ovalues) and the hourly average values of the stack gas moisture content derived from those data. When a moisture look-up table is used, the moisture monitoring system shall be represented as a single component, the certified DAHS, in the monitoring plan for the unit or common stack.

(3) Complete a minimum of one cycle of CO and oxygen (or CO) CEMS operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. Collect CO and oxygen (or CO) data concurrently. Collect at least four CO and oxygen (or CO) CEMS data values representing the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CEMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed.

(4) Reduce the CO CEMS data as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(5) Calculate one-hour arithmetic averages, corrected to 3 percent oxygen (or corrected to an COpercentage determined to be equivalent to 3 percent oxygen) from each hour of CO CEMS data in parts per million CO concentration. The one-hour arithmetic averages required shall be used to calculate the 30-day or 10-day rolling average emissions. Use Equation 19-19 in section 12.4.1 of Method 19 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 for calculating the average CO concentration from the hourly values.

(6) For purposes of collecting CO data, operate the CO CEMS as specified in § 63.7535(b). You must use all the data collected during all periods in calculating data averages and assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.7535(c). Periods when CO data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.7535(d).

(7) Operate an oxygen trim system with the oxygen level set no lower than the lowest hourly average oxygen concentration measured during the most recent CO performance test as the operating limit for oxygen according to Table 7 to this subpart.
