
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7525 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## e.g.

(4) Perform checks at least once each process operating day to ensure pressure measurements are not obstructed (, check for pressure tap pluggage daily).

(5) Conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.

(6) If at any time the measured pressure exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range, conduct a performance evaluation of the pressure monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan and confirm that the pressure monitoring system continues to meet the performance requirements in you monitoring plan. Alternatively, install and verify the operation of a new pressure sensor.

(g) If you have an operating limit that requires a pH monitoring system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d) and (g)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Install the pH sensor in a position that provides a representative measurement of scrubber effluent pH.

(2) Ensure the sample is properly mixed and representative of the fluid to be measured.

(3) Calibrate the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan and according to the manufacturer's instructions. Clean the pH probe at least once each process operating day. Maintain on-site documentation that your calibration frequency is sufficient to maintain the specified accuracy of your device.

(4) Conduct a performance evaluation (including a two-point calibration with one of the two buffer solutions having a pH within 1 of the pH of the operating limit) of the pH monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.

(h) If you have an operating limit that requires a secondary electric power monitoring system for an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) operated with a wet scrubber, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Install sensors to measure (secondary) voltage and current to the precipitator collection plates.

(2) Conduct a performance evaluation of the electric power monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.

(i) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a monitoring system to measure sorbent injection rate (e.g., weigh belt, weigh hopper, or hopper flow measurement device), you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (d) and (i)(1) through (2) of this section.

(1) Install the system in a position(s) that provides a representative measurement of the total sorbent injection rate.

(2) Conduct a performance evaluation of the sorbent injection rate monitoring system in accordance with your monitoring plan at the time of each performance test but no less frequently than annually.

(j) If you are not required to use a PM CPMS and elect to use a fabric filter bag leak detection system to comply with the requirements of this subpart, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate the bag leak detection system as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) You must install a bag leak detection sensor(s) in a position(s) that will be representative of the relative or absolute PM loadings for each exhaust stack, roof vent, or compartment (e.g., for a positive pressure fabric filter) of the fabric filter.

(2) Conduct a performance evaluation of the bag leak detection system in accordance with your monitoring plan and consistent with the guidance provided in EPA-454/R-98-015 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).

(3) Use a bag leak detection system certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less.

(4) Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a device to record continuously the output signal from the sensor.

(5) Use a bag leak detection system equipped with a system that will alert plant operating personnel when an increase in relative PM emissions over a preset level is detected. The alert must easily recognizable (e.g., heard or seen) by plant operating personnel.

(6) Where multiple bag leak detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alert may be shared among detectors.

(k) For each unit that meets the definition of limited-use boiler or process heater, you must keep fuel use records for the days the boiler or process heater was operating.

(l) For each unit for which you decide to demonstrate compliance with the mercury or HCl emissions limits in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart by use of a CEMS for mercury or HCl, you must install, certify, maintain, and operate a CEMS measuring emissions discharged to the atmosphere and record the output of the system as specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (8) of this section. For HCl, this option for an affected unit takes effect on the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan.

(1) Notify the Administrator one month before starting use of the CEMS, and notify the Administrator one month before stopping use of the CEMS.

(2) Each CEMS shall be installed, certified, operated, and maintained according to the requirements in § 63.7540(a)(14) for a mercury CEMS and § 63.7540(a)(15) for a HCl CEMS.

(3) For a new unit, you must complete the initial performance evaluation of the CEMS by the latest of the dates specified in paragraph (l)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) No later than July 30, 2013.

(ii) No later 180 days after the date of initial startup.

(iii) No later 180 days after notifying the Administrator before starting to use the CEMS in place of performance testing or fuel analysis to demonstrate compliance.

(4) For an existing unit, you must complete the initial performance evaluation by the latter of the two dates specified in paragraph (l)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) No later than July 29, 2016.

(ii) No later 180 days after notifying the Administrator before starting to use the CEMS in place of performance testing or fuel analysis to demonstrate compliance.

(5) Compliance with the applicable emissions limit shall be determined based on the 30-day rolling average of the hourly arithmetic average emissions rates using the continuous monitoring system outlet data. The 30-day rolling arithmetic average emission rate (lb/MMBtu) shall be calculated using the equations in EPA Reference Method 19 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, but substituting the mercury or HCl concentration for the pollutant concentrations normally used in Method 19.

(6) Collect CEMS hourly averages for all operating hours on a 30-day rolling average basis. Collect at least four CMS data values representing the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed.

(7) The one-hour arithmetic averages required shall be expressed in lb/MMBtu and shall be used to calculate the boiler 30-day and 10-day rolling average emissions.

(8) You are allowed to substitute the use of the PM, mercury or HCl CEMS for the applicable fuel analysis, annual performance test, and operating limits specified in Table 4 to this subpart to demonstrate compliance with the PM, mercury or HCl emissions limit, and if you are using an acid gas wet scrubber or dry sorbent injection control technology to comply with the HCl emission limit, you are allowed to substitute the use of a sulfur dioxide (SO) CEMS for the applicable fuel analysis, annual performance test, and operating limits specified in Table 4 to this subpart to demonstrate compliance with HCl emissions limit.

(m) If your unit is subject to a HCl emission limit in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart and you have an acid gas wet scrubber or dry sorbent injection control technology and you elect to use an SOCEMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl emission limit, you must install the monitor at the outlet of the boiler or process heater, downstream of all emission control devices, and you must install, certify, operate, and maintain the CEMS according to either part 60 or part 75 of this chapter.

(1) The SOCEMS must be installed by the compliance date specified in § 63.7495.

(2) For on-going quality assurance (QA), the SOCEMS must meet either the applicable daily and quarterly requirements in Procedure 1 of appendix F of part 60 or the applicable daily, quarterly, and semiannual or annual requirements in sections 2.1 through 2.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, with the following addition: You must perform the linearity checks required in section 2.2 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter if the SOCEMS has a span value of 30 ppm or less.

(3) For a new unit, the initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than July 30, 2013, or 180 days after the date of initial startup, whichever is later. For an existing unit, the initial performance evaluation shall be completed no later than July 29, 2016.

(4) For purposes of collecting SOdata, you must operate the SOCEMS as specified in § 63.7535(b). You must use all the data collected during all periods in calculating data averages and assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.7535(c). Periods when SOdata are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.7535(d).

(5) Collect CEMS hourly averages for all operating hours on a 30-day rolling average basis.

(6) Use only unadjusted, quality-assured SOconcentration values in the emissions calculations; do not apply bias adjustment factors to the part 75 SOdata and do not use part 75 substitute data values.
