
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7530 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations, fuel specifications and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limit that applies to you by conducting initial performance tests and fuel analyses and establishing operating limits, as applicable, according to § 63.7520, paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, and Tables 5 and 7 to this subpart. The requirement to conduct a fuel analysis is not applicable for units that burn a single type of fuel, as specified by § 63.7510(a)(2). If applicable, you must also install, operate, and maintain all applicable CMS (including CEMS, COMS, and CPMS) according to § 63.7525.

(b) If you demonstrate compliance through performance stack testing, you must establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements in § 63.7520, Table 7 to this subpart, and paragraph (b)(4) of this section, as applicable. You must also conduct fuel analyses according to § 63.7521 and establish maximum fuel pollutant input levels according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, and as specified in § 63.7510(a)(2). (Note that § 63.7510(a)(2) exempts certain fuels from the fuel analysis requirements.) However, if you switch fuel(s) and cannot show that the new fuel(s) does (do) not increase the chlorine, mercury, or TSM input into the unit through the results of fuel analysis, then you must repeat the performance test to demonstrate compliance while burning the new fuel(s).

(1) You must establish the maximum chlorine fuel input (Clinput) during the initial fuel analysis according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must determine the fuel type or fuel mixture that you could burn in your boiler or process heater that has the highest content of chlorine.

(ii) During the fuel analysis for hydrogen chloride, you must determine the fraction of the total heat input for each fuel type burned (Qi) based on the fuel mixture that has the highest content of chlorine, and the average chlorine concentration of each fuel type burned (Ci).

(iii) You must establish a maximum chlorine input level using Equation 7 of this section.

(2) You must establish the maximum mercury fuel input level (Mercuryinput) during the initial fuel analysis using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must determine the fuel type or fuel mixture that you could burn in your boiler or process heater that has the highest content of mercury.

(ii) During the compliance demonstration for mercury, you must determine the fraction of total heat input for each fuel burned (Qi) based on the fuel mixture that has the highest content of mercury, and the average mercury concentration of each fuel type burned (HGi).

(iii) You must establish a maximum mercury input level using Equation 8 of this section.

(3) If you opt to comply with the alternative TSM limit, you must establish the maximum TSM fuel input (TSMinput) for solid or liquid fuels during the initial fuel analysis according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must determine the fuel type or fuel mixture that you could burn in your boiler or process heater that has the highest content of TSM.

(ii) During the fuel analysis for TSM, you must determine the fraction of the total heat input for each fuel type burned (Qi) based on the fuel mixture that has the highest content of TSM, and the average TSM concentration of each fuel type burned (TSMi).

(iii) You must establish a maximum TSM input level using Equation 9 of this section.

(4) You must establish parameter operating limits according to paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section. As indicated in Table 4 to this subpart, you are not required to establish and comply with the operating parameter limits when you are using a CEMS to monitor and demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for that control device parameter.

(i) For a wet acid gas scrubber, you must establish the minimum scrubber effluent pH and liquid flow rate as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limits during the performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit. If you use a wet scrubber and you conduct separate performance tests for HCl and mercury emissions, you must establish one set of minimum scrubber effluent pH, liquid flow rate, and pressure drop operating limits. The minimum scrubber effluent pH operating limit must be established during the HCl performance test. If you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum liquid flow rate operating limit at the higher of the minimum values established during the performance tests.

(ii) For any particulate control device (e.g., ESP, particulate wet scrubber, fabric filter) for which you use a PM CPMS, you must establish your PM CPMS operating limit and determine compliance with it according to paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) Determine your operating limit as the average PM CPMS output value recorded during the most recent performance test run demonstrating compliance with the filterable PM emission limit or at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of the emission limit if your PM performance test demonstrates compliance below 75 percent of the emission limit. You must verify an existing or establish a new operating limit after each repeated performance test. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.
