
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7540 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations, fuel specifications and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15 to this subpart, the work practice standards in Table 3 to this subpart, and the operating limits in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Table 8 to this subpart and paragraphs (a)(1) through (19) of this section.

(1) Following the date on which the initial compliance demonstration is completed or is required to be completed under §§ 63.7 and 63.7510, whichever date comes first, operation above the established maximum or below the established minimum operating limits shall constitute a deviation of established operating limits listed in Table 4 of this subpart except during performance tests conducted to determine compliance with the emission limits or to establish new operating limits. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during performance tests.

(2) As specified in § 63.7555(d), you must keep records of the type and amount of all fuels burned in each boiler or process heater during the reporting period to demonstrate that all fuel types and mixtures of fuels burned would result in either of the following:

(i) Equal to or lower emissions of HCl, mercury, and TSM than the applicable emission limit for each pollutant, if you demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis.

(ii) Equal to or lower fuel input of chlorine, mercury, and TSM than the maximum values calculated during the last performance test, if you demonstrate compliance through performance testing.

(3) If you demonstrate compliance with an applicable HCl emission limit through fuel analysis for a solid or liquid fuel and you plan to burn a new type of solid or liquid fuel, you must recalculate the HCl emission rate using Equation 16 of § 63.7530 according to paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii). You may exclude the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii) when recalculating the HCl emission rate.

(i) You must determine the chlorine concentration for any new fuel type in units of pounds per million Btu, based on supplier data or your own fuel analysis, according to the provisions in your site-specific fuel analysis plan developed according to § 63.7521(b).

(ii) You must determine the new mixture of fuels that will have the highest content of chlorine.

(iii) Recalculate the HCl emission rate from your boiler or process heater under these new conditions using Equation 16 of § 63.7530. The recalculated HCl emission rate must be less than the applicable emission limit.

(4) If you demonstrate compliance with an applicable HCl emission limit through performance testing and you plan to burn a new type of fuel or a new mixture of fuels, you must recalculate the maximum chlorine input using Equation 7 of § 63.7530. If the results of recalculating the maximum chlorine input using Equation 7 of § 63.7530 are greater than the maximum chlorine input level established during the previous performance test, then you must conduct a new performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type or fuel mixture according to the procedures in § 63.7520 to demonstrate that the HCl emissions do not exceed the emission limit. You must also establish new operating limits based on this performance test according to the procedures in § 63.7530(b). In recalculating the maximum chlorine input and establishing the new operating limits, you are not required to conduct fuel analyses for and include the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii).

(5) If you demonstrate compliance with an applicable mercury emission limit through fuel analysis, and you plan to burn a new type of fuel, you must recalculate the mercury emission rate using Equation 17 of § 63.7530 according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii). You may exclude the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii) when recalculating the mercury emission rate.

(i) You must determine the mercury concentration for any new fuel type in units of pounds per million Btu, based on supplier data or your own fuel analysis, according to the provisions in your site-specific fuel analysis plan developed according to § 63.7521(b).

(ii) You must determine the new mixture of fuels that will have the highest content of mercury.

(iii) Recalculate the mercury emission rate from your boiler or process heater under these new conditions using Equation 17 of § 63.7530. The recalculated mercury emission rate must be less than the applicable emission limit.

(6) If you demonstrate compliance with an applicable mercury emission limit through performance testing, and you plan to burn a new type of fuel or a new mixture of fuels, you must recalculate the maximum mercury input using Equation 8 of § 63.7530. If the results of recalculating the maximum mercury input using Equation 8 of § 63.7530 are higher than the maximum mercury input level established during the previous performance test, then you must conduct a new performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type or fuel mixture according to the procedures in § 63.7520 to demonstrate that the mercury emissions do not exceed the emission limit. You must also establish new operating limits based on this performance test according to the procedures in § 63.7530(b). You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii). You may exclude the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii) when recalculating the mercury emission rate.

(7) If your unit is controlled with a fabric filter, and you demonstrate continuous compliance using a bag leak detection system, you must initiate corrective action within 1 hour of a bag leak detection system alert and complete corrective actions as soon as practical, and operate and maintain the fabric filter system such that the periods which would cause an alert are no more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period. You must also keep records of the date, time, and duration of each alert, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alert and the corrective action taken. You must also record the percent of the operating time during each 6-month period that the conditions exist for an alert. In calculating this operating time percentage, if inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alert time is counted. If corrective action is required, each alert shall be counted as a minimum of 1 hour. If you take longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, the alert time shall be counted as the actual amount of time taken to initiate corrective action.

(8) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable alternative CO CEMS emission limit listed in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Continuously monitor CO according to §§ 63.7525(a) and 63.7535.

(ii) Maintain a CO emission level below or at your applicable alternative CO CEMS-based standard in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart at all times the affected unit is subject to numeric emission limits.

(iii) Keep records of CO levels according to § 63.7555(b).

(iv) You must record and make available upon request results of CO CEMS performance audits, dates and duration of periods when the CO CEMS is out of control to completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the CO CEMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(9) The owner or operator of a boiler or process heater using a PM CPMS or a PM CEMS to meet requirements of this subpart shall install, certify (PM CEMS only), operate, and maintain the PM CPMS or PM CEMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan as required in § 63.7505(d).

(10) If your boiler or process heater has a heat input capacity of 10 million Btu per hour or greater, you must conduct an annual tune-up of the boiler or process heater to demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section. You must conduct the tune-up while burning the type of fuel (or fuels in case of units that routinely burn a mixture) that provided the majority of the heat input to the boiler or process heater over the 12 months prior to the tune-up. This frequency does not apply to limited-use boilers and process heaters, as defined in § 63.7575, or units with continuous oxygen trim systems that maintain an optimum air to fuel ratio.

(i) As applicable, inspect the burner, and clean or replace any components of the burner as necessary (you may perform the burner inspection any time prior to the tune-up or delay the burner inspection until the next scheduled unit shutdown). Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the burner inspection until the first outage, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection. At units where entry into a piece of process equipment or into a storage vessel is required to complete the tune-up inspections, inspections are required only during planned entries into the storage vessel or process equipment;

(ii) Inspect the flame pattern, as applicable, and adjust the burner as necessary to optimize the flame pattern. The adjustment should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, if available;

(iii) Inspect the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio, as applicable, and ensure that it is correctly calibrated and functioning properly (you may delay the inspection until the next scheduled unit shutdown). Units that produce electricity for sale may delay the inspection until the first outage, not to exceed 36 months from the previous inspection;

(iv) Optimize total emissions of CO. This optimization should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, if available, and with any NOrequirement to which the unit is subject;

(v) Measure the concentrations in the effluent stream of CO in parts per million, by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, before and after the adjustments are made (measurements may be either on a dry or wet basis, as long as it is the same basis before and after the adjustments are made). Measurements may be taken using a portable CO analyzer; and

(vi) Maintain on-site and submit, if requested by the Administrator, a report containing the information in paragraphs (a)(10)(vi)(A) through (C) of this section,

(A) The concentrations of CO in the effluent stream in parts per million by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, measured at high fire or typical operating load, before and after the tune-up of the boiler or process heater;

(B) A description of any corrective actions taken as a part of the tune-up; and

(C) The type and amount of fuel used over the 12 months prior to the tune-up, but only if the unit was physically and legally capable of using more than one type of fuel during that period. Units sharing a fuel meter may estimate the fuel used by each unit.

(11) If your boiler or process heater has a heat input capacity of less than 10 million Btu per hour (except as specified in paragraph (a)(12) of this section), you must conduct a biennial tune-up of the boiler or process heater as specified in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance.

(12) If your boiler or process heater has a continuous oxygen trim system that maintains an optimum air to fuel ratio, or a heat input capacity of less than or equal to 5 million Btu per hour and the unit is in the units designed to burn gas 1; units designed to burn gas 2 (other); or units designed to burn light liquid subcategories, or meets the definition of limited-use boiler or process heater in § 63.7575, you must conduct a tune-up of the boiler or process heater every 5 years as specified in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (vi) of this section to demonstrate continuous compliance. You may delay the burner inspection specified in paragraph (a)(10)(i) of this section until the next scheduled or unscheduled unit shutdown, but you must inspect each burner at least once every 72 months. If an oxygen trim system is utilized on a unit without emission standards to reduce the tune-up frequency to once every 5 years, set the oxygen level no lower than the oxygen concentration measured during the most recent tune-up.

(13) If the unit is not operating on the required date for a tune-up, the tune-up must be conducted within 30 calendar days of startup.

(14) If you are using a CEMS measuring mercury emissions to meet requirements of this subpart you must install, certify, operate, and maintain the mercury CEMS as specified in paragraphs (a)(14)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Operate the mercury CEMS in accordance with performance specification 12A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B or operate a sorbent trap based integrated monitor in accordance with performance specification 12B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The duration of the performance test must be 30 operating days if you specified a 30 operating day basis in § 63.7545(e)(2)(iii) for mercury CEMS or it must be 720 hours if you specified a 720 hour basis in § 63.7545(e)(2)(iii) for mercury CEMS. For each day in which the unit operates, you must obtain hourly mercury concentration data, and stack gas volumetric flow rate data.

(ii) If you are using a mercury CEMS, you must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the mercury mass emissions rate to the atmosphere according to the requirements of performance specifications 6 and 12A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and quality assurance procedure 6 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(15) If you are using a CEMS to measure HCl emissions to meet requirements of this subpart, you must install, certify, operate, and maintain the HCl CEMS as specified in paragraphs (a)(15)(i) and (ii) of this section. This option for an affected unit takes effect on the date of approval of a site-specific monitoring plan.

(i) Operate the continuous emissions monitoring system in accordance with the applicable performance specification in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The duration of the performance test must be 30 operating days if you specified a 30 operating day basis in § 63.7545(e)(2)(iii) for HCl CEMS or it must be 720 hours if you specified a 720 hour basis in § 63.7545(e)(2)(iii) for HCl CEMS. For each day in which the unit operates, you must obtain hourly HCl concentration data, and stack gas volumetric flow rate data.

(ii) If you are using a HCl CEMS, you must install, operate, calibrate, and maintain an instrument for continuously measuring and recording the HCl mass emissions rate to the atmosphere according to the requirements of the applicable performance specification of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and the quality assurance procedures of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(16) If you demonstrate compliance with an applicable TSM emission limit through performance testing, and you plan to burn a new type of fuel or a new mixture of fuels, you must recalculate the maximum TSM input using Equation 9 of § 63.7530. If the results of recalculating the maximum TSM input using Equation 9 of § 63.7530 are higher than the maximum total selected input level established during the previous performance test, then you must conduct a new performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type or fuel mixture according to the procedures in § 63.7520 to demonstrate that the TSM emissions do not exceed the emission limit. You must also establish new operating limits based on this performance test according to the procedures in § 63.7530(b). You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii). You may exclude the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii) when recalculating the TSM emission rate.

(17) If you demonstrate compliance with an applicable TSM emission limit through fuel analysis for solid or liquid fuels, and you plan to burn a new type of fuel, you must recalculate the TSM emission rate using Equation 18 of § 63.7530 according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section. You are not required to conduct fuel analyses for the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii). You may exclude the fuels described in § 63.7510(a)(2)(i) through (iii) when recalculating the TSM emission rate.

(i) You must determine the TSM concentration for any new fuel type in units of pounds per million Btu, based on supplier data or your own fuel analysis, according to the provisions in your site-specific fuel analysis plan developed according to § 63.7521(b).

(ii) You must determine the new mixture of fuels that will have the highest content of TSM.

(iii) Recalculate the TSM emission rate from your boiler or process heater under these new conditions using Equation 18 of § 63.7530. The recalculated TSM emission rate must be less than the applicable emission limit.

(18) If you demonstrate continuous PM emissions compliance with a PM CPMS you will use a PM CPMS to establish a site-specific operating limit corresponding to the results of the performance test demonstrating compliance with the PM limit. You will conduct your performance test using the test method criteria in Table 5 of this subpart. You will use the PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with this operating limit. You must repeat the performance test annually and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.

(i) To determine continuous compliance, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the PM CPMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps) on a 30-day rolling average basis.

(ii) For any deviation of the 30-day rolling PM CPMS average value from the established operating parameter limit, you must:

(A) Within 48 hours of the deviation, visually inspect the air pollution control device (APCD);

(B) If inspection of the APCD identifies the cause of the deviation, take corrective action as soon as possible and return the PM CPMS measurement to within the established value; and

(C) Within 30 days of the deviation or at the time of the annual compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct a PM emissions compliance test to determine compliance with the PM emissions limit and to verify or re-establish the CPMS operating limit. You are not required to conduct additional testing for any deviations that occur between the time of the original deviation and the PM emissions compliance test required under this paragraph.

(iii) PM CPMS deviations from the operating limit leading to more than four required performance tests in a 12-month operating period constitute a separate violation of this subpart.

(19) If you choose to comply with the PM filterable emissions limit by using PM CEMS you must install, certify, operate, and maintain a PM CEMS and record the output of the PM CEMS as specified in paragraphs (a)(19)(i) through (vii) of this section. The compliance limit will be expressed as a 30-day rolling average of the numerical emissions limit value applicable for your unit in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart.

(i) Install and certify your PM CEMS according to the procedures and requirements in Performance Specification 11-Specifications and Test Procedures for Particulate Matter Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems at Stationary Sources in Appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, using test criteria outlined in Table V of this rule. The reportable measurement output from the PM CEMS must be expressed in units of the applicable emissions limit (e.g., lb/MMBtu, lb/MWh).

(ii) Operate and maintain your PM CEMS according to the procedures and requirements in Procedure 2- Quality Assurance Requirements for Particulate Matter Continuous Emission Monitoring Systems at Stationary Sources in Appendix F to part 60 of this chapter.

(A) You must conduct the relative response audit (RRA) for your PM CEMS at least once annually.

(B) You must conduct the relative correlation audit (RCA) for your PM CEMS at least once every 3 years.

(iii) Collect PM CEMS hourly average output data for all boiler operating hours except as indicated in paragraph (v) of this section.

(iv) Calculate the arithmetic 30-day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CEMS output data collected during all nonexempt boiler or process heater operating hours.

(v) You must collect data using the PM CEMS at all times the unit is operating and at the intervals specified this paragraph (a), except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities.

(vi) You must use all the data collected during all boiler or process heater operating hours in assessing the compliance with your operating limit except:

(A) Any data collected during monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during monitoring system malfunctions in calculations and report any such periods in your annual deviation report;

(B) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities conducted during out of control periods in calculations used to report emissions or operating levels and report any such periods in your annual deviation report;

(C) Any data recorded during periods of startup or shutdown.

(vii) You must record and make available upon request results of PM CEMS system performance audits, dates and duration of periods when the PM CEMS is out of control to completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the PM CEMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and operating limit in Tables 1 through 4 or 11 through 15 to this subpart that apply to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limits or operating limits, respectively, in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.7550.

(c) If you elected to demonstrate that the unit meets the specification for mercury for the unit designed to burn gas 1 subcategory, you must follow the sampling frequency specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section and conduct this sampling according to the procedures in § 63.7521(f) through (i).

(1) If the initial mercury constituents in the gaseous fuels are measured to be equal to or less than half of the mercury specification as defined in § 63.7575, you do not need to conduct further sampling.

(2) If the initial mercury constituents are greater than half but equal to or less than 75 percent of the mercury specification as defined in § 63.7575, you will conduct semi-annual sampling. If 6 consecutive semi-annual fuel analyses demonstrate 50 percent or less of the mercury specification, you do not need to conduct further sampling. If any semi-annual sample exceeds 75 percent of the mercury specification, you must return to monthly sampling for that fuel, until 12 months of fuel analyses again are less than 75 percent of the compliance level.

(3) If the initial mercury constituents are greater than 75 percent of the mercury specification as defined in § 63.7575, you will conduct monthly sampling. If 12 consecutive monthly fuel analyses demonstrate 75 percent or less of the mercury specification, you may decrease the fuel analysis frequency to semi-annual for that fuel.

(4) If the initial sample exceeds the mercury specification as defined in § 63.7575, each affected boiler or process heater combusting this fuel is not part of the unit designed to burn gas 1 subcategory and must be in compliance with the emission and operating limits for the appropriate subcategory. You may elect to conduct additional monthly sampling while complying with these emissions and operating limits to demonstrate that the fuel qualifies as another gas 1 fuel. If 12 consecutive monthly fuel analyses samples are at or below the mercury specification as defined in § 63.7575, each affected boiler or process heater combusting the fuel can elect to switch back into the unit designed to burn gas 1 subcategory until the mercury specification is exceeded.

(d) For startup and shutdown, you must meet the work practice standards according to items 5 and 6 of Table 3 of this subpart.
