
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7530 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations, fuel specifications and work practice standards?
######## e.g.

(F) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signals corresponding to each PM compliance test run.

(iii) For a particulate wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum pressure drop and liquid flow rate as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limits during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit. If you use a wet scrubber and you conduct separate performance tests for PM and TSM emissions, you must establish one set of minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits. If you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits at the higher of the minimum values established during the performance tests.

(iv) For an electrostatic precipitator (ESP) operated with a wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum total secondary electric power input, as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limit during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit. (These operating limits do not apply to ESP that are operated as dry controls without a wet scrubber.)

(v) For a dry scrubber, you must establish the minimum sorbent injection rate for each sorbent, as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limit during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit.

(vi) For activated carbon injection, you must establish the minimum activated carbon injection rate, as defined in § 63.7575, as your operating limit during the three-run performance test during which you demonstrate compliance with your applicable limit.

(vii) The operating limit for boilers or process heaters with fabric filters that demonstrate continuous compliance through bag leak detection systems is that a bag leak detection system be installed according to the requirements in § 63.7525, and that each fabric filter must be operated such that the bag leak detection system alert is not activated more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period.

(viii) For a minimum oxygen level, if you conduct multiple performance tests, you must set the minimum oxygen level at the lower of the minimum values established during the performance tests.

(ix) The operating limit for boilers or process heaters that demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl emission limit using a SOCEMS is to install and operate the SOaccording to the requirements in § 63.7525(m) establish a maximum SOemission rate equal to the highest hourly average SOmeasurement during the most recent three-run performance test for HCl.

(c) If you elect to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emission limit through fuel analysis, you must conduct fuel analyses according to § 63.7521 and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) If you burn more than one fuel type, you must determine the fuel mixture you could burn in your boiler or process heater that would result in the maximum emission rates of the pollutants that you elect to demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis.

(2) You must determine the 90th percentile confidence level fuel pollutant concentration of the composite samples analyzed for each fuel type using the one-sided t-statistic test described in Equation 15 of this section.

(3) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for HCl, the HCl emission rate that you calculate for your boiler or process heater using Equation 16 of this section must not exceed the applicable emission limit for HCl.

(4) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for mercury, the mercury emission rate that you calculate for your boiler or process heater using Equation 17 of this section must not exceed the applicable emission limit for mercury.

(5) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit for TSM for solid or liquid fuels, the TSM emission rate that you calculate for your boiler or process heater from solid fuels using Equation 18 of this section must not exceed the applicable emission limit for TSM.

(d)[Reserved]

(e) You must include with the Notification of Compliance Status a signed certification that either the energy assessment was completed according to Table 3 to this subpart, and that the assessment is an accurate depiction of your facility at the time of the assessment, or that the maximum number of on-site technical hours specified in the definition of energy assessment applicable to the facility has been expended.

(f) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration according to the requirements in § 63.7545(e).

(g) If you elect to demonstrate that a gaseous fuel meets the specifications of another gas 1 fuel as defined in § 63.7575, you must conduct an initial fuel specification analyses according to § 63.7521(f) through (i) and according to the frequency listed in § 63.7540(c) and maintain records of the results of the testing as outlined in § 63.7555(g). For samples where the initial mercury specification has not been exceeded, you will include a signed certification with the Notification of Compliance Status that the initial fuel specification test meets the gas specification outlined in the definition of other gas 1 fuels.

(h) If you own or operate a unit subject to emission limits in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must meet the work practice standard according to Table 3 to this subpart. During startup and shutdown, you must only follow the work practice standards according to items 5 and 6 of Table 3 to this subpart.

(i) If you opt to comply with the alternative SOCEMS operating limit in Tables 4 and 8 to this subpart, you may do so only if your affected boiler or process heater:

(1) Has a system using wet scrubber or dry sorbent injection and SOCEMS installed on the unit; and

(2) At all times, you operate the wet scrubber or dry sorbent injection for acid gas control on the unit consistent with § 63.7500(a)(3); and

(3) You establish a unit-specific maximum SOoperating limit by collecting the maximum hourly SOemission rate on the SOCEMS during the paired 3-run test for HCl. The maximum SOoperating limit is equal to the highest hourly average SOconcentration measured during the HCl performance test.
