
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7533 Can I use efficiency credits earned from implementation of energy conservation measures to comply with this subpart?
######## i.e.,

(b) For each existing affected boiler for which you intend to apply emissions credits, establish a benchmark from which emission reduction credits may be generated by determining the actual annual fuel heat input to the affected boiler before initiation of an energy conservation activity to reduce energy demand (fuel usage) according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. The benchmark shall be expressed in trillion Btu per year heat input.

(1) The benchmark from which efficiency credits may be generated shall be determined by using the most representative, accurate, and reliable process available for the source. The benchmark shall be established for a one-year period before the date that an energy demand reduction occurs, unless it can be demonstrated that a different time period is more representative of historical operations.

(2) Determine the starting point from which to measure progress. Inventory all fuel purchased and generated on-site (off-gases, residues) in physical units (MMBtu, million cubic feet, etc.).

(3) Document all uses of energy from the affected boiler. Use the most recent data available.

(4) Collect non-energy related facility and operational data to normalize, if necessary, the benchmark to current operations, such as building size, operating hours, etc. If possible, use actual data that are current and timely rather than estimated data.

(c) Efficiency credits can be generated if the energy conservation measures were implemented after January 1, 2008 and if sufficient information is available to determine the appropriate value of credits.

(1) The following emission points cannot be used to generate efficiency credits:

(i) Energy conservation measures implemented on or before January 1, 2008, unless the level of energy demand reduction is increased after January 1, 2008, in which case credit will be allowed only for change in demand reduction achieved after January 1, 2008.

(ii) Efficiency credits on shut-down boilers. Boilers that are shut down cannot be used to generate credits unless the facility provides documentation linking the permanent shutdown to energy conservation measures identified in the energy assessment. In this case, the bench established for the affected boiler to which the credits from the shutdown will be applied must be revised to include the benchmark established for the shutdown boiler.

(2) For all points included in calculating emissions credits, the owner or operator shall:

(i) Calculate annual credits for all energy demand points. Use Equation 19 to calculate credits. Energy conservation measures that meet the criteria of paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall not be included, except as specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section.

(3) Credits are generated by the difference between the benchmark that is established for each affected boiler, and the actual energy demand reductions from energy conservation measures implemented after January 1, 2008. Credits shall be calculated using Equation 19 of this section as follows:

(i) The overall equation for calculating credits is:

(ii) [Reserved]

(d) The owner or operator shall develop, and submit for approval upon request by the Administrator, an Implementation Plan containing all of the information required in this paragraph for all boilers to be included in an efficiency credit approach. The Implementation Plan shall identify all existing affected boilers to be included in applying the efficiency credits. The Implementation Plan shall include a description of the energy conservation measures implemented and the energy savings generated from each measure and an explanation of the criteria used for determining that savings. If requested, you must submit the implementation plan for efficiency credits to the Administrator for review and approval no later than 180 days before the date on which the facility intends to demonstrate compliance using the efficiency credit approach.

(e) The emissions rate as calculated using Equation 20 in paragraph (f) of this section from each existing boiler participating in the efficiency credit option must be in compliance with the limits in Table 2 or 15 to this subpart at all times the affected unit is subject to numeric emission limits, following the compliance date specified in ยง 63.7495.

(f) You must use Equation 20 of this paragraph (f) to demonstrate initial compliance by demonstrating that the emissions from the affected boiler participating in the efficiency credit compliance approach do not exceed the emission limits in Table 2 or 15 to this subpart.

(g) As part of each compliance report submitted as required under ยง 63.7550, you must include documentation that the energy conservation measures implemented continue to generate the credit for use in demonstrating compliance with the emission limits.
