
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Testing, Fuel Analyses, and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7530 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations, fuel specifications and work practice standards?
######## 4

() Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the lb/MMBtu per milliamp value from Equation 11 in equation 12, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.

(C) If the average of your three PM compliance test runs is at or above 75 percent of your PM emission limit you must determine your 30-day rolling average operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using equation 13 and you must submit all compliance test and PM CPMS data according to the reporting requirements in paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(F) of this section.

(D) To determine continuous compliance, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the PM CPMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (milliamps) on a 30-day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new operating hour. Use Equation 14 to determine the 30-day rolling average.

(E) Use EPA Method 5 of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to determine PM emissions. For each performance test, conduct three separate runs under the conditions that exist when the affected source is operating at the highest load or capacity level reasonably expected to occur. Conduct each test run to collect a minimum sample volume specified in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, as applicable, for determining compliance with a new source limit or an existing source limit. Calculate the average of the results from three runs to determine compliance. You need not determine the PM collected in the impingers ("back half") of the Method 5 particulate sampling train to demonstrate compliance with the PM standards in this subpart. This shall not preclude the permitting authority from requiring a determination of the "back half" for other purposes.
