
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7535 Is there a minimum amount of monitoring data I must obtain?

(a) You must monitor and collect data according to this section and the site-specific monitoring plan required by ยง 63.7505(d).

(b) You must operate the monitoring system and collect data at all required intervals at all times that each boiler or process heater is operating and compliance is required, except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions or out of control periods (see ยง 63.8(c)(7) of this part), and required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities, including, as applicable, calibration checks, required zero and span adjustments, and scheduled CMS maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan. A monitoring system malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring system to provide valid data. Monitoring system failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. You are required to complete monitoring system repairs in response to monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods and to return the monitoring system to operation as expeditiously as practicable.

(c) You may not use data recorded during periods of startup and shutdown, monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or out-of-control periods, or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities in data averages and calculations used to report emissions or operating levels. You must record and make available upon request results of CMS performance audits and dates and duration of periods when the CMS is out of control to completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the CMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance and the operation of the control device and associated control system.

(d) Except for periods of monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions, and required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, system accuracy audits, calibration checks, and required zero and span adjustments), failure to collect required data is a deviation of the monitoring requirements. In calculating monitoring results, do not use any data collected during periods of startup and shutdown, when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, while conducting repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or while conducting required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities. You must calculate monitoring results using all other monitoring data collected while the process is operating. You must report all periods when the monitoring system is out of control in your semi-annual report.
