
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7555 What records must I keep?
######## i.e.,

(3) Previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3).

(4) Request for alternatives to relative accuracy test for CEMS as required in § 63.8(f)(6)(i).

(5) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(c) You must keep the records required in Table 8 to this subpart including records of all monitoring data and calculated averages for applicable operating limits, such as opacity, pressure drop, pH, and operating load, to show continuous compliance with each emission limit and operating limit that applies to you.

(d) For each boiler or process heater subject to an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, you must also keep the applicable records in paragraphs (d)(1) through (11) of this section.

(1) You must keep records of monthly fuel use by each boiler or process heater, including the type(s) of fuel and amount(s) used.

(2) If you combust non-hazardous secondary materials that have been determined not to be solid waste pursuant to § 241.3(b)(1) and (2) of this chapter, you must keep a record that documents how the secondary material meets each of the legitimacy criteria under § 241.3(d)(1) of this chapter. If you combust a fuel that has been processed from a discarded non-hazardous secondary material pursuant to § 241.3(b)(4) of this chapter, you must keep records as to how the operations that produced the fuel satisfy the definition of processing in § 241.2 of this chapter. If the fuel received a non-waste determination pursuant to the petition process submitted under § 241.3(c) of this chapter, you must keep a record that documents how the fuel satisfies the requirements of the petition process. For operating units that combust non-hazardous secondary materials as fuel per § 241.4 of this chapter, you must keep records documenting that the material is listed as a non-waste under § 241.4(a) of this chapter. Units exempt from the incinerator standards under section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act because they are qualifying facilities burning a homogeneous waste stream do not need to maintain the records described in this paragraph (d)(2).

(3) A copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of maximum chlorine fuel input, using Equation 7 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate continuous compliance with the HCl emission limit, for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing. For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of HCl emission rates, using Equation 16 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate compliance with the HCl emission limit. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses and basis for the estimates of maximum chlorine fuel input or HCl emission rates. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers and process heaters provided they are all burning the same fuel type. However, you must calculate chlorine fuel input, or HCl emission rate, for each boiler and process heater.

(4) A copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of maximum mercury fuel input, using Equation 8 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate continuous compliance with the mercury emission limit for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing. For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of mercury emission rates, using Equation 17 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limit. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses and basis for the estimates of maximum mercury fuel input or mercury emission rates. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers and process heaters provided they are all burning the same fuel type. However, you must calculate mercury fuel input, or mercury emission rates, for each boiler and process heater.

(5) If, consistent with § 63.7515(b), you choose to stack test less frequently than annually, you must keep a record that documents that your emissions in the previous stack test(s) were less than 75 percent of the applicable emission limit (or, in specific instances noted in Tables 1 and 2 or 11 through 15 to this subpart, less than the applicable emission limit), and document that there was no change in source operations including fuel composition and operation of air pollution control equipment that would cause emissions of the relevant pollutant to increase within the past year.

(6) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the boiler or process heater, or of the associated air pollution control and monitoring equipment.

(7) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with the general duty to minimize emissions in § 63.7500(a)(3), including corrective actions to restore the malfunctioning boiler or process heater, air pollution control, or monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(8) A copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of maximum TSM fuel input, using Equation 9 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate continuous compliance with the TSM emission limit for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing. For sources that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis, a copy of all calculations and supporting documentation of TSM emission rates, using Equation 18 of § 63.7530, that were done to demonstrate compliance with the TSM emission limit. Supporting documentation should include results of any fuel analyses and basis for the estimates of maximum TSM fuel input or TSM emission rates. You can use the results from one fuel analysis for multiple boilers and process heaters provided they are all burning the same fuel type. However, you must calculate TSM fuel input, or TSM emission rates, for each boiler and process heater.

(9) You must maintain records of the calendar date, time, occurrence and duration of each startup and shutdown.

(10) You must maintain records of the type(s) and amount(s) of fuels used during each startup and shutdown.

(11) For each startup period, for units selecting paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in § 63.7575 you must maintain records of the time that clean fuel combustion begins; the time when you start feeding fuels that are not clean fuels; the time when useful thermal energy is first supplied; and the time when the PM controls are engaged.
