
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7545 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit to the Administrator all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), (f)(4) and (6), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your affected source before January 31, 2013, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 days after January 31, 2013, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(4) and (5), if you startup your new or reconstructed affected source on or after January 31, 2013, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 15 days after the actual date of startup of the affected source. For a new or reconstructed affected source that has reclassified to major source status, you must submit an Initial Notification not later 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart.

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance test is scheduled to begin.

(e) If you are required to conduct an initial compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.7530, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). For the initial compliance demonstration for each boiler or process heater, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including all performance test results and fuel analyses, before the close of business on the 60th day following the completion of all performance test and/or other initial compliance demonstrations for all boiler or process heaters at the facility according to § 63.10(d)(2). The Notification of Compliance Status report must contain all the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section, as applicable. If you are not required to conduct an initial compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.7530(a), the Notification of Compliance Status must only contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (8) of this section and must be submitted within 60 days of the compliance date specified at § 63.7495(b).

(1) A description of the affected unit(s) including identification of which subcategories the unit is in, the design heat input capacity of the unit, a description of the add-on controls used on the unit to comply with this subpart, description of the fuel(s) burned, including whether the fuel(s) were a secondary material determined by you or the EPA through a petition process to be a non-waste under § 241.3 of this chapter, whether the fuel(s) were a secondary material processed from discarded non-hazardous secondary materials within the meaning of § 241.3 of this chapter, and justification for the selection of fuel(s) burned during the compliance demonstration.

(2) Summary of the results of all performance tests and fuel analyses, and calculations conducted to demonstrate initial compliance including all established operating limits, and including:

(i) Identification of whether you are complying with the PM emission limit or the alternative TSM emission limit.

(ii) Identification of whether you are complying with the output-based emission limits or the heat input-based (i.e., lb/MMBtu or ppm) emission limits,

(iii) Identification of whether you are complying the arithmetic mean of all valid hours of data from the previous 30 operating days or of the previous 720 hours. This identification shall be specified separately for each operating parameter.

(3) A summary of the maximum CO emission levels recorded during the performance test to show that you have met any applicable emission standard in Table 1 or 2 or Tables 11 through 15 to this subpart, if you are not using a CO CEMS to demonstrate compliance.

(4) Identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance with each applicable emission limit through performance testing, a CEMS, or fuel analysis.

(5) Identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance by emissions averaging and identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance by using efficiency credits through energy conservation:

(i) If you plan to demonstrate compliance by emission averaging, report the emission level that was being achieved or the control technology employed on January 31, 2013.

(ii) [Reserved]

(6) A signed certification that you have met all applicable emission limits and work practice standards.

(7) If you had a deviation from any emission limit, work practice standard, or operating limit, you must also submit a description of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, and the corrective action taken in the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(8) In addition to the information required in § 63.9(h)(2), your notification of compliance status must include the following certification(s) of compliance, as applicable, and signed by a responsible official:

(i) "This facility completed the required initial tune-up for all of the boilers and process heaters covered by 40 CFR part 63 subpart DDDDD at this site according to the procedures in § 63.7540(a)(10)(i) through (vi)."

(ii) "This facility has had an energy assessment performed according to § 63.7530(e)."

(iii) Except for units that burn only natural gas, refinery gas, or other gas 1 fuel, or units that qualify for a statutory exemption as provided in section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act, include the following: "No secondary materials that are solid waste were combusted in any affected unit."

(f) If you operate a unit designed to burn natural gas, refinery gas, or other gas 1 fuels that is subject to this subpart, and you intend to use a fuel other than natural gas, refinery gas, gaseous fuel subject to another subpart of this part, part 60, 61, or 65, or other gas 1 fuel to fire the affected unit during a period of natural gas curtailment or supply interruption, as defined in § 63.7575, you must submit a notification of alternative fuel use within 48 hours of the declaration of each period of natural gas curtailment or supply interruption, as defined in § 63.7575. The notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Identification of the affected unit.

(3) Reason you are unable to use natural gas or equivalent fuel, including the date when the natural gas curtailment was declared or the natural gas supply interruption began.

(4) Type of alternative fuel that you intend to use.

(5) Dates when the alternative fuel use is expected to begin and end.

(g) If you intend to commence or recommence combustion of solid waste, you must provide 30 days prior notice of the date upon which you will commence or recommence combustion of solid waste. The notification must identify:

(1) The name of the owner or operator of the affected source, as defined in § 63.7490, the location of the source, the boiler(s) or process heater(s) that will commence burning solid waste, and the date of the notice.

(2) The currently applicable subcategories under this subpart.

(3) The date on which you became subject to the currently applicable emission limits.

(4) The date upon which you will commence combusting solid waste.

(h) If you have switched fuels or made a physical change to the boiler or process heater and the fuel switch or physical change resulted in the applicability of a different subcategory, you must provide notice of the date upon which you switched fuels or made the physical change within 30 days of the switch/change. The notification must identify:

(1) The name of the owner or operator of the affected source, as defined in § 63.7490, the location of the source, the boiler(s) and process heater(s) that have switched fuels, were physically changed, and the date of the notice.

(2) The currently applicable subcategory under this subpart.

(3) The date upon which the fuel switch or physical change occurred.
