
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7550 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 9 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Unless the EPA Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report, according to paragraph (h) of this section, by the date in Table 9 to this subpart and according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. For units that are subject only to a requirement to conduct subsequent annual, biennial, or 5-year tune-up according to § 63.7540(a)(10), (11), or (12), respectively, and not subject to emission limits or Table 4 operating limits, you may submit only an annual, biennial, or 5-year compliance report, as applicable, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, instead of a semi-annual compliance report.

(1) The first semi-annual compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for each boiler or process heater in § 63.7495 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs at least 180 days after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.7495. If submitting an annual, biennial, or 5-year compliance report, the first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for each boiler or process heater in § 63.7495 and ending on December 31 within 1, 2, or 5 years, as applicable, after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.7495.

(2) The first semi-annual compliance report must be postmarked or submitted no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for each boiler or process heater in § 63.7495. The first annual, biennial, or 5-year compliance report must be postmarked or submitted no later than January 31.

(3) Each subsequent semi-annual compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31. Annual, biennial, and 5-year compliance reports must cover the applicable 1-, 2-, or 5-year periods from January 1 to December 31.

(4) Each subsequent semi-annual compliance report must be postmarked or submitted no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period. Annual, biennial, and 5-year compliance reports must be postmarked or submitted no later than January 31.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to part 70 or part 71 of this chapter, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established in the permit instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(c) A compliance report must contain the following information depending on how the facility chooses to comply with the limits set in this rule.

(1) If the facility is subject to the requirements of a tune up you must submit a compliance report with the information in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, (xiv) and (xvii) of this section, and paragraph (c)(5)(iv) of this section for limited-use boiler or process heater.

(2) If you are complying with the fuel analysis you must submit a compliance report with the information in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii), (vi), (x), (xi), (xiii), (xv), (xvii), (xviii) and paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) If you are complying with the applicable emissions limit with performance testing you must submit a compliance report with the information in (c)(5)(i) through (iii), (vi), (vii), (viii), (ix), (xi), (xiii), (xv), (xvii), (xviii) and paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) If you are complying with an emissions limit using a CMS the compliance report must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii), (v), (vi), (xi) through (xiii), (xv) through (xviii), and paragraph (e) of this section.

(5)(i) Company and Facility name and address.

(ii) Process unit information, emissions limitations, and operating parameter limitations.

(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iv) The total operating time during the reporting period.

(v) If you use a CMS, including CEMS, COMS, or CPMS, you must include the monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model numbers and the date of the last CMS certification or audit.

(vi) The total fuel use by each individual boiler or process heater subject to an emission limit within the reporting period, including, but not limited to, a description of the fuel, whether the fuel has received a non-waste determination by the EPA or your basis for concluding that the fuel is not a waste, and the total fuel usage amount with units of measure.

(vii) If you are conducting performance tests once every 3 years consistent with § 63.7515(b) or (c), the date of the last 2 performance tests and a statement as to whether there have been any operational changes since the last performance test that could increase emissions.

(viii) A statement indicating that you burned no new types of fuel in an individual boiler or process heater subject to an emission limit. Or, if you did burn a new type of fuel and are subject to a HCl emission limit, you must submit the calculation of chlorine input, using Equation 7 of § 63.7530, that demonstrates that your source is still within its maximum chlorine input level established during the previous performance testing (for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing) or you must submit the calculation of HCl emission rate using Equation 16 of § 63.7530 that demonstrates that your source is still meeting the emission limit for HCl emissions (for boilers or process heaters that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis). If you burned a new type of fuel and are subject to a mercury emission limit, you must submit the calculation of mercury input, using Equation 8 of § 63.7530, that demonstrates that your source is still within its maximum mercury input level established during the previous performance testing (for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing), or you must submit the calculation of mercury emission rate using Equation 17 of § 63.7530 that demonstrates that your source is still meeting the emission limit for mercury emissions (for boilers or process heaters that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis). If you burned a new type of fuel and are subject to a TSM emission limit, you must submit the calculation of TSM input, using Equation 9 of § 63.7530, that demonstrates that your source is still within its maximum TSM input level established during the previous performance testing (for sources that demonstrate compliance through performance testing), or you must submit the calculation of TSM emission rate, using Equation 18 of § 63.7530, that demonstrates that your source is still meeting the emission limit for TSM emissions (for boilers or process heaters that demonstrate compliance through fuel analysis).

(ix) If you wish to burn a new type of fuel in an individual boiler or process heater subject to an emission limit and you cannot demonstrate compliance with the maximum chlorine input operating limit using Equation 7 of § 63.7530 or the maximum mercury input operating limit using Equation 8 of § 63.7530, or the maximum TSM input operating limit using Equation 9 of § 63.7530 you must include in the compliance report a statement indicating the intent to conduct a new performance test within 60 days of starting to burn the new fuel.

(x) A summary of any monthly fuel analyses conducted to demonstrate compliance according to §§ 63.7521 and 63.7530 for individual boilers or process heaters subject to emission limits, and any fuel specification analyses conducted according to §§ 63.7521(f) and 63.7530(g).

(xi) If there are no deviations from any emission limits or operating limits in this subpart that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits or operating limits during the reporting period.

(xii) If there were no deviations from the monitoring requirements including no periods during which the CMSs, including CEMS, COMS, and CPMS, were out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no deviations and no periods during which the CMS were out of control during the reporting period.

(xiii) If a malfunction occurred during the reporting period, the report must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by you during a malfunction of a boiler, process heater, or associated air pollution control device or CMS to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.7500(a)(3), including actions taken to correct the malfunction.

(xiv) Include the date of the most recent tune-up for each unit subject to only the requirement to conduct an annual, biennial, or 5-year tune-up according to § 63.7540(a)(10), (11), or (12) respectively. Include the date of the most recent burner inspection if it was not done annually, biennially, or on a 5-year period and was delayed until the next scheduled or unscheduled unit shutdown.

(xv) If you plan to demonstrate compliance by emission averaging, certify the emission level achieved or the control technology employed is no less stringent than the level or control technology contained in the notification of compliance status in § 63.7545(e)(5)(i).

(xvi) For each reporting period, the compliance reports must include all of the calculated 30 day rolling average values for CEMS (CO, HCl, SO, and mercury), 10 day rolling average values for CO CEMS when the limit is expressed as a 10 day instead of 30 day rolling average, and the PM CPMS data.

(xvii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(xviii) For each instance of startup or shutdown include the information required to be monitored, collected, or recorded according to the requirements of § 63.7555(d).

(d) For each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit in this subpart that occurs at an individual boiler or process heater where you are not using a CMS to comply with that emission limit or operating limit, or from the work practice standards for periods if startup and shutdown, the compliance report must additionally contain the information required in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A description of the deviation and which emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard from which you deviated.

(2) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(3) If the deviation occurred during an annual performance test, provide the date the annual performance test was completed.

(e) For each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, and monitoring requirement in this subpart occurring at an individual boiler or process heater where you are using a CMS to comply with that emission limit or operating limit, the compliance report must additionally contain the information required in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section. This includes any deviations from your site-specific monitoring plan as required in § 63.7505(d).

(1) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped and description of the nature of the deviation (i.e., what you deviated from).

(2) The date and time that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(3) The date, time, and duration that each CMS was out of control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(4) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(5) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(6) A characterization of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(7) A summary of the total duration of CMS's downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(8) A brief description of the source for which there was a deviation.

(9) A description of any changes in CMSs, processes, or controls since the last reporting period for the source for which there was a deviation.

(f)-(g) [Reserved]

(h) You must submit the reports according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance tests, including any fuel analyses, following the procedure specified in either paragraph (h)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.
