
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Major Sources: Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers and Process Heaters
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7541 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance under the emissions averaging provision?

(a) Following the compliance date, the owner or operator must demonstrate compliance with this subpart on a continuous basis by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) For each calendar month, demonstrate compliance with the average weighted emissions limit for the existing units participating in the emissions averaging option as determined in ยง 63.7522(f) and (g).

(2) You must maintain the applicable opacity limit according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option that is equipped with a dry control system and not vented to a common stack, maintain opacity at or below the applicable limit.

(ii) For each group of units participating in the emissions averaging option where each unit in the group is equipped with a dry control system and vented to a common stack that does not receive emissions from non-affected units, maintain opacity at or below the applicable limit at the common stack.

(3) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option that is equipped with a wet scrubber, maintain the 30-day rolling average parameter values at or above the operating limits established during the most recent performance test.

(4) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option that has an approved alternative operating parameter, maintain the 30-day rolling average parameter values consistent with the approved monitoring plan.

(5) For each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option venting to a common stack configuration containing affected units from other subcategories, maintain the appropriate operating limit for each unit as specified in Table 4 to this subpart that applies.

(b) Any instance where the owner or operator fails to comply with the continuous monitoring requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section is a deviation.
