
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Oil and Natural Gas Well Production Facilities; Fort Berthold Indian Reservation (Mandan, Hidatsa and Arikara Nation), North Dakota
####### § 49.4166 Monitoring requirements.

(a) Each owner and operator must measure the barrels of oil produced at the oil and natural gas production facility each time the oil is unloaded from the produced oil storage tanks using the methodologies of tank gauging or positive displacement metering system, as appropriate, as established by the U.S. Department of the Interior's Bureau of Land Management at 43 CFR part 3160, in the "Onshore Oil and Gas Operations; Federal and Indian Oil & Gas Leases; Onshore Oil and Gas Order No. 4; Measurement of Oil".

(b) Each owner or operator must monitor the hours that each pit flare is operated to control produced natural gas and natural gas emissions in the event that natural gas recovered for pipeline injection must be diverted to a backup control device because injection is temporarily infeasible and there is no enclosed combustor or utility flare at the oil and natural gas production facility.

(c) Each owner or operator must monitor the volume of produced natural gas sent to each enclosed combustor, utility flare, and pit flare at all times. Methods to measure the volume include, but are not limited to, direct measurement and gas-to-oil ratio (GOR) laboratory analyses.

(d) Each owner or operator must monitor the volume of standing, working, breathing, and flashing losses from the produced oil and produced water storage tanks sent to each vapor recovery system, enclosed combustor, utility flare, and pit flare at all times. Methods to measure the volume include, but are not limited to, direct measurement or GOR laboratory analyses.

(e) Each owner or operator must perform quarterly visual inspections of tank thief hatches, covers, seals, PRVs, and closed vent systems to ensure proper condition and functioning and repair any damaged equipment. The quarterly inspections must be performed while the produced oil and produced water storage tanks are being filled.

(f) Each owner or operator must perform quarterly visual inspections of the peak pressure and vacuum values in each closed vent system and control system for the produced oil and produced water storage tanks to ensure that the pressure and vacuum relief set-points are not being exceeded in a way that has resulted, or may result, in venting and possible damage to equipment. The quarterly inspections must be performed while the produced oil and produced water storage tanks are being filled.

(g) Each owner or operator must monitor the operation of each enclosed combustor, utility flare, and pit flare to confirm proper operation as follows:

(1) Continuously monitor all variable operational parameters specified in the written operating instructions and procedures, including continuous burning pilot flame, electronically controlled automatic igniters, and monitoring system failures, using a malfunction alarm and remote notification system, where such systems are available, or continuously monitor under an equivalent alternative protocol upon prior written approval by the EPA;

(2) Perform a physical inspection of all equipment associated with each enclosed combustor, utility flare, and pit flare each time an operator is on site, at a minimum quarterly, to ensure system integrity;

(3) Monitor for visible smoke during operation of any enclosed combustor, utility flare or pit flare each time an operator is on site, at a minimum quarterly. Upon observation of visible smoke, use EPA Reference Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A, to determine whether visible smoke emissions are present. The observation period shall be 2 hours. Visible smoke emissions are present if smoke is observed for more than 5 minutes in any 2 consecutive hours; and

(4) Respond to any observation of any continuous burning pilot flame failure, electronically controlled automatic igniter failure, or improper monitoring equipment operation and ensure the equipment is returned to proper operation as soon as practicable and safely possible after an observation or an alarm sounds.

(h) Where sufficient to meet the monitoring and recordkeeping requirements in §§ 49.4166 and 49.4167, the owner or operator may use a Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) system to monitor and record the required data in §§ 49.4161 through 49.4168.

(i) Other Monitoring Options. The owner or operator may use equivalent methods of monitoring other than those listed above upon prior written approval by the EPA.
