
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Emission Limitations and Standards
####### ยง 63.7790 What emission limitations must I meet?

(a) You must meet each emission limit and opacity limit in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) You must meet each operating limit for capture systems and control devices in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section that applies to you.

(1) You must operate each capture system applied to emissions from a sinter plant discharge end or blast furnace casthouse or to secondary emissions from a BOPF at or above the lowest value or settings established for the operating limits in your operation and maintenance plan;

(2) For each venturi scrubber applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.

(3) For each electrostatic precipitator applied to emissions from a BOPF, you must maintain the hourly average opacity of emissions exiting the control device at or below 10 percent.

(c) An owner or operator who uses an air pollution control device other than a baghouse, venturi scrubber, or electrostatic precipitator must submit a description of the device; test results collected in accordance with ยง 63.7822 verifying the performance of the device for reducing emissions of particulate matter to the atmosphere to the levels required by this subpart; a copy of the operation and maintenance plan required in ยง 63.7800(b); and appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emission limitation(s). The monitoring plan identifying the operating parameters to be monitored is subject to approval by the Administrator.

(d) For each sinter plant, you must either:

(1) Maintain the 30-day rolling average oil content of the feedstock at or below 0.02 percent; or

(2) Maintain the 30-day rolling average of volatile organic compound emissions from the windbox exhaust stream at or below 0.2 lb/ton of sinter.
