
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7783 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation, standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations for mercury.

(1) No later than May 22, 2006 for all emissions sources at an existing affected source except for a sinter cooler at an existing sinter plant.

(2) No later than January 13, 2007 for a sinter cooler at an existing sinter plant.

(b) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is on or before May 20, 2003, then you must comply with each emission limitation, standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by May 20, 2003. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations for mercury.

(c) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is after May 20, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup. This paragraph does not apply to the emission limitations for mercury.

(d) If your integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility is not a major source and becomes a major source of HAP, the following compliance dates apply to you.

(1) Any portion of the existing integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility that becomes a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) All other parts of the integrated iron and steel manufacturing facility must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 2 years after it becomes a major source.

(e) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in ยง 63.7840. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.

(f) With regard to the mercury emission limitations, if you have a new or existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation for mercury that applies to you by the deadlines set forth in ยง 63.7791.
