
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Emission Limitations and Standards
####### § 63.7791 How do I comply with the requirements for the control of mercury?
######## Alternative compliance demonstration.

(b)(1) As an alternative to demonstrating compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 by conducting performance tests pursuant to §§ 63.7825 and 63.7833(h), you may demonstrate compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 by procuring scrap pursuant to the requirements in paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment. It is not necessary to use the same BOPF scrap compliance provision for all scrap providers, contracts, or shipments. You may procure some scrap through providers, contracts, or shipments pursuant to one BOPF scrap compliance provision and other scrap through providers, contracts, or shipments pursuant to other BOPF scrap compliance provisions.

(2) To utilize the alternative compliance options established in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must submit an initial certification of compliance and semiannual compliance reports consistent with the requirements of §§ 63.7840(f) and 63.7841(b)(9) through (11), and (13), and comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 63.7842(e) and all other applicable provisions related to demonstrating compliance through participating in an approved mercury program or through the use of scrap that does not contain mercury switches.

(3) For any facility that initially elects to utilize the alternative compliance options established in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, but subsequently stops using scrap that meets the requirements of paragraph (c), (d), or (e) of this section for each scrap provider, contract, or shipment, within 180 days of the change you must, for that BOPF Group, demonstrate compliance through performance testing pursuant to the requirements of §§ 63.7825 and 63.7833(h), and submit a revised notice of compliance status in your next semiannual compliance report described in this section. You must also comply with the requirements for conducting subsequent performance tests in §§ 63.7821(e) and 63.7840(g), and all other applicable requirements related to demonstrating compliance with the emission limits through performance testing.
