
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7810 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) On or before January 11, 2021, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emission limitations, standards, and operation and maintenance requirements in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. After January 11, 2021, for each such source you must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart at all times. For new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart at all times.

(b) During the period between the compliance date specified for your affected source in ยง 63.7783 and the date upon which continuous monitoring systems have been installed and certified and any applicable operating limits have been set, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the process and emissions control equipment.

(c) On or before January 11, 2021, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan according to the provisions in ยง 63.6(e)(3). For each such source, a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required after January 11, 2021. No startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is required for any new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2019.

(d) On or before January 11, 2021, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in ยง 63.6(e)(1)(i). After January 11, 2021for each such source, and after July 13, 2020 for new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2019, at all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.
