
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7825 What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit for mercury?
######## i.e.,

(a) If demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limits for each BOPF Group in Table 1 to this subpart through performance testing, you must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit. If demonstrating compliance with the emission limit through performance testing, you must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source based on representative performance (performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source for the period being tested, according to the conditions detailed in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You shall not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. Initial compliance tests must be conducted by the deadlines in ยง 63.7820(e).

(1) You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(2) For sources with multiple emission units ducted to a common control device and stack, compliance testing must be performed either by conducting a single compliance test with all affected emissions units in operation or by conducting a separate compliance test on each emissions unit. Alternatively, the owner or operator may request approval from the permit authority for an alternative testing approach. If the units are tested separately, any emissions unit that is not tested initially must be tested as soon as is practicable.

(b) To demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for mercury in Table 1 to this subpart through performance testing, follow the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of mercury according to the following test methods:

(i) EPA Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) EPA Method 2 or 2F in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter or EPA Method 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The manual procedures (but not instrumental procedures) of voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981-Part 10 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) may be used as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) EPA Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) EPA Method 29 or 30B in appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the concentration of mercury from each unit of the BOPF Group exhaust stream stack. If performing measurements using EPA Method 29, you must collect a minimum sample volume of 1.7 dscm (60 dscf). Alternative test methods may be considered on a case-by-case basis per ยง 63.7(f).
