
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7824 What test methods and other procedures must I use to establish and demonstrate initial compliance with operating limits?
######## i.e.,

(e) To demonstrate initial compliance with the alternative operating limit for volatile organic compound emissions from the sinter plant windbox exhaust stream in ยง 63.7790(d)(2), follow the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section. You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source based on representative performance (performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You shall not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(1) Determine the volatile organic compound emissions according to the following test methods:

(i) EPA Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) EPA Method 2 or 2F in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter or EPA Method 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) EPA Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The manual procedures (but not instrumental procedures) of voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981-Part 10 (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) may be used as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) EPA Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) EPA Method 25 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the mass concentration of volatile organic compound emissions (total gaseous nonmethane organics as carbon) from the sinter plant windbox exhaust stream stack.

(2) Determine volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions every 24 hours (from at least three samples taken at 8-hour intervals) using EPA Method 25 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter. Record the sampling date and time, sampling results, and sinter produced (tons/day).

(3) Compute the process-weighted mass emissions (E) each day using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(4) Continue the sampling and analysis procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section for 30 consecutive days.

(5) Compute and record the 30-day rolling average of VOC emissions for each operating day.

(f) You may use an alternative test method to determine the oil content of the sinter plant feedstock or the volatile organic compound emissions from the sinter plant windbox exhaust stack if you have already demonstrated the equivalency of the alternative method for a specific plant and have received previous approval from the applicable permitting authority.
