
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.7825 What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limit for mercury?
######## i.e.,

(2) Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test of each BOPF Group unit. If the performance testing results for any of the emission points yields a non-detect value, then the minimum detection limit (MDL) must be used to calculate the mass emissions (lb) for that emission unit and, in turn, for calculating the sum of the emissions (in units of pounds of mercury per ton of steel scrap) for all BOPF Group units subject to the emission standard for determining compliance. If the resulting mercury emissions are greater than the MACT emission standard, the owner or operator may use procedures that produce lower MDL results and repeat the mercury performance testing one additional time for any emission point for which the measured result was below the MDL. If this additional testing is performed, the results from that testing must be used to determine compliance (there are no additional opportunities allowed to lower the MDL).

(3) For a primary emission control device applied to emissions from a BOPF with a closed hood system, sample only during the primary oxygen blow and do not sample during any subsequent reblows. Continue sampling for each run for an integral number of primary oxygen blows.

(4) For a primary emission control system applied to emissions from a BOPF with an open hood system and for a control device applied solely to secondary emissions from a BOPF, you must complete the requirements of paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section:

(i) Sample only during the steel production cycle. Conduct sampling under conditions that are representative of normal operation. Record the start and end time of each steel production cycle and each period of abnormal operation; and

(ii) Sample for an integral number of steel production cycles. The steel production cycle begins when the scrap is charged to the furnace and ends 3 minutes after the slag is emptied from the vessel into the slag pot.

(5) For a control device applied to emissions from BOPF shop ancillary operations (hot metal transfer, skimming, desulfurization, or ladle metallurgy), sample only when the operation(s) is being conducted.

(c) Calculate the mercury mass emissions, based on the average of three test run values, for each BOPF Group unit (or combination of units that are ducted to a common stack and are tested when all affected sources are operating pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section) using Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(d) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate an appropriate weight measurement device, to measure the tons of steel scrap input to the BOPF cycle simultaneous with each BOPF Group unit's stack test.

(e) You must maintain the systems for measuring weight within +/-5 percent accuracy. You must describe the specific equipment used to make measurements at your facility and how that equipment is periodically calibrated. You must also explain, document, and maintain written procedures for determining the accuracy of the measurements and make these written procedures available to your permitting authority upon request. You must determine, record, and maintain a record of the accuracy of the measuring systems before the beginning of your initial compliance test and during each subsequent quarter of affected source operation.

(f) Calculate the emissions from each new and existing affected source in pounds of mercury per ton of steel scrap to determine initial compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 1. Sum the mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all BOPF Group units calculated using Equation 1 of this section. Divide that sum by the sum of the total amount of steel scrap charged to the BOPFs (in tons).
