
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7824 What test methods and other procedures must I use to establish and demonstrate initial compliance with operating limits?

(a) For each capture system subject to an operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(1), you must certify that the system operated during the performance test at the site-specific operating limits established in your operation and maintenance plan using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Concurrent with all opacity observations, measure and record values for each of the operating limit parameters in your capture system operation and maintenance plan according to the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.7830(a).

(2) For any dampers that are manually set and remain at the same position at all times the capture system is operating, the damper position must be visually checked and recorded at the beginning and end of each opacity observation period segment.

(3) Review and record the monitoring data. Identify and explain any times the capture system operated outside the applicable operating limits.

(4) Certify in your performance test report that during all observation period segments, the capture system was operating at the values or settings established in your capture system operation and maintenance plan.

(b) For a venturi scrubber subject to operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.7790(b)(2), you must establish site-specific operating limits according to the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. You may establish the parametric monitoring limit during the initial performance test or during any other performance test run that meets the emission limit.

(1) Using the CPMS required in § 63.7830(c), measure and record the pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate during each run of the particulate matter performance test.

(2) Compute and record the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate for each individual test run. Your operating limits are the lowest average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate value in any of the three runs that meet the applicable emission limit.

(c) You may change the operating limits for a capture system or venturi scrubber if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator of your request to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.

(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limitation in Table 1 to this subpart.

(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the applicable procedures in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for a control device or capture system.

(d) For each sinter plant subject to the operating limit for the oil content of the sinter plant feedstock in § 63.7790(d)(1), you must demonstrate initial compliance according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Sample the feedstock at least three times a day (once every 8 hours), composite the three samples each day, and analyze the composited samples using Method 9071B, "n-Hexane Extractable Material(HEM) for Sludge, Sediment, and Solid Samples," (Revision 2, April 1998). Method 9071B is incorporated by reference (see § 63.14) and is published in EPA Publication SW-846 "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods." Record the sampling date and time, oil content values, and sinter produced (tons/day).

(2) Continue the sampling and analysis procedure for 30 consecutive days.

(3) Each day, compute and record the 30-day rolling average using that day's value and the 29 previous daily values.
