
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7830 What are my monitoring requirements?
######## e.g.,

(3) If you use a flow measurement device to monitor the operating limit parameter for a capture system applied to secondary emissions from a BOPF, you must monitor the average rate for each steel production cycle (the average actual volumetric flow rate through each separately ducted hood for each steel production cycle, the average total volumetric flow rate at the inlet to the control device for each steel production cycle) according to the requirements in § 63.7832.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section for each baghouse applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart. You must conduct inspections of each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(1) Install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system according to § 63.7831(f) and monitor the relative change in particulate matter loadings according to the requirements in § 63.7832; or

(2) If you do not install and operate a bag leak detection system, you must install, operate, and maintain a COMS according to the requirements in § 63.7831(h) and monitor the hourly average opacity of emissions exiting each control device stack according to the requirements in § 63.7832.

(3) A bag leak detection system and COMS are not required for a baghouse that meets the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The baghouse is a positive pressure baghouse and is not equipped with exhaust gas stacks; and

(ii) The baghouse was installed before August 30, 2005.

(4) You must conduct inspections of each baghouse at the specified frequencies according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) Monitor the pressure drop across each baghouse cell each day to ensure pressure drop is within the normal operating range identified in the manual.

(ii) Confirm that dust is being removed from hoppers through weekly visual inspections or other means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.

(iii) Check the compressed air supply for pulse-jet baghouses each day.

(iv) Monitor cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation using an appropriate methodology.

(v) Check bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through monthly visual inspection or equivalent means.

(vi) Make monthly visual checks of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses to ensure that bags are not kinked (kneed or bent) or laying on their sides. You do not have to make this check for shaker-type baghouses using self-tensioning (spring-loaded) devices.

(vii) Confirm the physical integrity of the baghouse through quarterly visual inspections of the baghouse interior for air leaks.

(viii) Inspect fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through quarterly visual inspections, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.

(c) For each venturi scrubber subject to the operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.7790(b)(2), you must install, operate, and maintain CPMS according to the requirements in § 63.7831(g) and monitor the hourly average pressure drop and water flow rate according to the requirements in § 63.7832.

(d) For each electrostatic precipitator subject to the opacity operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(3), you must install, operate, and maintain a COMS according to the requirements in § 63.7831(h) and monitor the hourly average opacity of emissions exiting each control device stack according to the requirements in § 63.7832.

(e) For each sinter plant subject to the operating limit in § 63.7790(d), you must either:

(1) Compute and record the 30-day rolling average of the oil content of the feedstock for each operating day using the procedures in § 63.7824(d); or

(2) Compute and record the 30-day rolling average of the volatile organic compound emissions (lbs/ton of sinter) for each operating day using the procedures in § 63.7824(e).
