
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7831 What are the installation, operation, and maintenance requirements for my monitors?
######## i.e.,

(5) On or before January 11, 2021, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d). After January 11, 2021 for each such source, and after July 13, 2020 for new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2019, ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d) except for the requirements related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans referenced in § 63.8(d)(3). The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2);

(6) On or before January 11, 2021, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c)(1) through (14), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i). After January 11, 2021 for each such source, and after July 13, 2020 for new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after August 16, 2019, ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c)(1) through (14), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i);

(7) Corrective action procedures you will follow in the event a venturi scrubber exceeds the operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(2); and

(8) Corrective action procedures you will follow in the event an electrostatic precipitator exceeds the operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(3).

(b) Unless otherwise specified, each CPMS must:

(1) Complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period and collect a minimum of three of the required four data points to constitute a valid hour of data;

(2) Provide valid hourly data for at least 95 percent of every averaging period; and

(3) Determine and record the hourly average of all recorded readings.

(c) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CPMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(d) You must operate and maintain the CPMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(e) For each capture system subject to an operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(1), you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.

(f) For each baghouse equipped with a bag leak detection system according to § 63.7830(b)(1), you must install, operate, and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) The system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting emissions of particulate matter at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.

(2) The system must provide output of relative changes in particulate matter loadings.

(3) The system must be equipped with an alarm that will sound when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level. The alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.

(4) Each system that works based on the triboelectric effect must be installed, operated, and maintained in a manner consistent with the guidance document, "Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance," EPA-454/R-98-015 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). You may install, operate, and maintain other types of bag leak detection systems in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations.

(5) To make the initial adjustment of the system, establish the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device. Then, establish the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.

(6) Following the initial adjustment, do not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in your operation and maintenance plan. Do not increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless a responsible official certifies, in writing, that the baghouse has been inspected and found to be in good operating condition.

(7) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(g) For each venturi scrubber subject to operating limits in § 63.7790(b)(2) for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.

(h) For each electrostatic precipitator subject to the opacity operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(3) and each baghouse equipped with a COMS according to § 63.7830(b)(2), you must install, operate, and maintain each COMS according to the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must install, operate, and maintain each COMS according to Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each COMS according to § 63.8 and Performance Specification 1 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60.

(3) Each COMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(4) COMS data must be reduced to 6-minute averages as specified in § 63.8(g)(2) and to hourly averages where required by this subpart.
