
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7833 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations that apply to me?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each affected source subject to an emission or opacity limit in § 63.7790(a) by meeting the requirements in Table 3 to this subpart.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each capture system subject to an operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(1) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Operate the capture system at or above the lowest values or settings established for the operating limits in your operation and maintenance plan; and

(2) Monitor the capture system according to the requirements in § 63.7830(a) and collect, reduce, and record the monitoring data for each of the operating limit parameters according to the applicable requirements of this subpart;

(c) For each baghouse applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section as applicable, and paragraphs (c)(3) and (4) of this section:

(1) For a baghouse equipped with a bag leak detection system, operating and maintaining each bag leak detection system according to § 63.7831(f) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements. If you increase or decrease the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system beyond the limits specified in § 63.7831(f)(6), you must include a copy of the required written certification by a responsible official in the next semiannual compliance report.

(2) For a baghouse equipped with a COMS, operating and maintaining each COMS and reducing the COMS data according to § 63.7831(h).

(3) Inspecting each baghouse according to the requirements in § 63.7830(b)(4) and maintaining all records needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(4) Maintaining records of the time you initiated corrective action in the event of a bag leak detection system alarm or when the hourly average opacity exceeded 5 percent, the corrective action(s) taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.

(d) For each venturi scrubber subject to the operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.7790(b)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section:

(1) Maintaining the hourly average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate at levels no lower than those established during the initial or subsequent performance test;

(2) Operating and maintaining each venturi scrubber CPMS according to § 63.7831(g) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements; and

(3) Collecting and reducing monitoring data for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate according to § 63.7831(b) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(4) If the hourly average pressure drop or scrubber water flow rate is below the operating limits, you must follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (g) of this section.

(e) For each electrostatic precipitator subject to the opacity operating limit in § 63.7790(b)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section:

(1) Maintaining the hourly average opacity of emissions no higher than 10 percent; and

(2) Operating and maintaining each COMS and reducing the COMS data according to § 63.7831(h).

(3) If the hourly average opacity of emissions exceeds 10 percent, you must follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (g) of this section.

(f) For each new or existing sinter plant subject to the operating limit in § 63.7790(d), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by either:

(1) For the sinter plant feedstock oil content operating limit in § 63.7790(d)(1),

(i) Computing and recording the 30-day rolling average of the percent oil content for each operating day according to the performance test procedures in § 63.7824(d);

(ii) Recording the sampling date and time, oil content values, and sinter produced (tons/day); and

(iii) Maintaining the 30-day rolling average oil content of the feedstock no higher than 0.02 percent.

(2) For the volatile organic compound operating limit in § 63.7790(d)(2),

(i) Computing and recording the 30-day rolling average of the volatile organic compound emissions for each operating day according to the performance test procedures in § 63.7824(e);

(ii) Recording the sampling date and time, sampling values, and sinter produced (tons/day); and

(iii) Maintaining the 30-day rolling average of volatile organic compound emissions no higher than 0.2 lb/ton of sinter produced.

(g) If the hourly average pressure drop or water flow rate for a venturi scrubber or hourly average opacity for an electrostatic precipitator exceeds the operating limit, you must follow the procedures in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must initiate corrective action to determine the cause of the exceedance within 1 hour. During any period of corrective action, you must continue to monitor and record all required operating parameters for equipment that remains in operation. Within 24 hours of the exceedance, you must measure and record the hourly average operating parameter value for the emission unit on which corrective action was taken. If the hourly average parameter value meets the applicable operating limit, then the corrective action was successful and the emission unit is in compliance with the applicable operating limit.

(2) If the initial corrective action required in paragraph (g)(1) of this section was not successful, you must complete additional corrective action within the next 24 hours (48 hours from the time of the exceedance). During any period of corrective action, you must continue to monitor and record all required operating parameters for equipment that remains in operation. After this second 24-hour period, you must again measure and record the hourly average operating parameter value for the emission unit on which corrective action was taken. If the hourly average parameter value meets the applicable operating limit, then the corrective action was successful and the emission unit is in compliance with the applicable operating limit.

(3) For purposes of paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section, in the case of an exceedance of the hourly average opacity operating limit for an electrostatic precipitator, measurements of the hourly average opacity based on visible emission observations in accordance with EPA Method 9 (in appendix A-4 to part 60) may be taken to evaluate the effectiveness of corrective action. ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) may be used with the following conditions:

(i) During the DCOT certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14), the owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).

(ii) The owner or operator must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).

(iii) The owner or operator must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.

(iv) The owner or operator or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15-percent opacity of anyone reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5-percent opacity.

(v) Use of this approved alternative does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and these requirements is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.

(4) If the second attempt at corrective action required in paragraph (g)(2) of this section was not successful, you must report the exceedance as a deviation in your next semiannual compliance report according to § 63.7841(b).

(h) If you are demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limits in Table 1 of this section for your BOPF Groups through performance testing, you must conduct mercury performance tests in accordance with §§ 63.7821(e) and 63.7825 and calculate the emissions from each new and existing affected source in pounds of mercury per ton of steel scrap to determine compliance with the mercury emission limits in Table 1. Sum the mercury mass emissions (in pounds) from all BOPF Group units calculated using Equation 1 of § 63.7825. Divide that sum by the sum of the total amount of steel scrap charged to the BOPFs (in tons).

(i) If you are demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limits in Table 1 of this section for your BOPF Groups by certifying participation in the NVMSRP or another EPA-approved mercury program, or by using scrap that does not contain mercury switches, you must obtain and certify your use of steel scrap per § 63.7791(c), (d), or (e), as applicable, and § 63.7841(b)(11) to demonstrate continuous compliance with the standard.
