
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7840 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.6(h)(4) and (5), 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e) and (f)(4), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you by the specified dates.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your affected source before May 20, 2003, you must submit your initial notification no later than September 17, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you start your new affected source on or after May 20, 2003, you must submit your initial notification no later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1). For the first mercury compliance test in the BOPF Group for anyone sequence of tests, you must include a schedule of all subsequent tests in the BOPF Group in the test series.

(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test, opacity observation, or other initial compliance demonstration, you must submit a notification of compliance according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii), except that for the purposes of submitting the notification of compliance status for BOPF Group mercury testing, the performance test shall be considered complete when the final unit or control device in the BOPF Group in the sequence is tested.

(1) For each initial compliance demonstration that does not include a performance test, you must submit the notification of compliance status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(2) For each initial compliance demonstration that includes a performance test, you must submit the notification of compliance status, including the summary of performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2).

(f) The notification of compliance status required by §§ 63.9(b) and (h) and 63.7826(c) must include each applicable certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, regarding the mercury requirements, as applicable, in § 63.7791(c) through (e).

(1) "This facility participates in and purchases scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the EPA Administrator, in accordance with § 63.7791(c) or (e)"; or

(2) "This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain mercury switches, in accordance with § 63.7791(d)."

(g) Within 60 calendar days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section. Where applicable, you may assert a claim of EPA system outage, in accordance with § 63.7841(e), or force majeure, in accordance with § 63.7841(f), for failure to timely comply with this requirement.
