
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7841 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance report contents.

(b)Each compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and, as applicable, paragraphs (b)(4) through (13) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced on or before August 16, 2019, before January 11, 2021, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the compliance report must include the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan and the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i) is not required after January 11, 2021.

(5) If there were no deviations from the continuous compliance requirements in §§ 63.7833 and 63.7834 that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.

(6) If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS, COMS, or continuous emission monitoring system (CEMS) was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.

(7) For each deviation from an emission limitation in § 63.7790 that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS, COMS, or CEMS) to comply with an emission limitation in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, the information in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section, and the information in (b)(13) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(ii) Information on the duration and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable) as applicable and the corrective action taken.

(8) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or COMS) to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (xi) of this section, and the information in (b)(13) of this section. This includes periods of malfunction.

(i) The date and time that each malfunction started and stopped.

(ii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(iii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a malfunction or during another period.

(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(vii) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.

(viii) A brief description of the process units.

(ix) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.

(x) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.

(xi) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(9) Any deviation from the requirements in § 63.7791 and the corrective action taken. For each deviation, you must include the information in (b)(13) of this section.

(10) If there were no deviations from the requirements in § 63.7791, a statement that there were no deviations from the requirements during the reporting period.

(11) If the facility demonstrates compliance with the mercury emission limits in Table 1 through the compliance options in § 63.7791(c), (d), or (e), the report must contain the applicable statement in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) "This facility participates in and purchases scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the EPA Administrator, in accordance with § 63.7791(c) or (e)"; or

(ii) "This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain mercury switches, in accordance with § 63.7791(d)."

(12) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction on or before August 16, 2019, before January 11, 2021, for each startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period that is not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown and malfunction report. Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report according to paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section. An immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report is not required after January 11, 2021.

(13) Beginning on January 11, 2021 if you failed to meet an applicable standard, the compliance report must include the start date, start time, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the compliance report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.
