
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7835 What other requirements must I meet to demonstrate continuous compliance?

Except as provided in § 63.7833(g), you must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limitation in § 63.7790 that applies to you. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. You also must report each instance in which you did not meet each operation and maintenance requirement in § 63.7800 that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations and operation and maintenance requirements in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.7841.

(a) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the date, time, and duration of each failure.

(b) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(c) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.7810(d), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(d) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction on or before August 16, 2019, before January 11, 2021, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). After January 11, 2021 for such sources, and after July 13, 2020 for new and reconstructed sources which commence construction or reconstruction after August 16, 2019, the exemptions for periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction in § 63.6(e) no longer apply.
