
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Integrated Iron and Steel Manufacturing Facilities
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7842 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the following records:

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or notification of compliance status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction on or before August 16, 2019, before January 11, 2021, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction for a period of five years. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required after January 11, 2021.

(3) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(4) Records of the actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.7810(d), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(5) Records of performance tests, performance evaluations, and opacity observations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(b) For each COMS, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).

(2) Monitoring data for a performance evaluation as required in § 63.6(h)(7)(i) and (ii).

(3) Previous (that is, superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan required under § 63.8(d)(2), with the program of corrective action included in the plan.

(4) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(c) You must keep the records required in § 63.6(h)(6) for visual observations.

(d) You must keep the records required in §§ 63.7833 and 63.7834 to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation and operation and maintenance requirement that applies to you.

(e) If you are demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 1 through § 63.7791(c), you must keep records to demonstrate compliance with the requirements for mercury in § 63.7791(c) as applicable. If you are demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 1 through § 63.7791(d), you must keep records documenting compliance with § 63.7791(d) for scrap that does not contain mercury switches. If you are demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit in Table 1 through § 63.7791(e), you must maintain records identifying each scrap provider and documenting the scrap provider's participation in an approved mercury switch removal program. If you purchase scrap from a broker, you must maintain records identifying each broker and documentation that all scrap provided by the broker was obtained from other scrap providers who participate in an approved mercury switch removal program.
