
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.7881 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) This subpart applies to you if you own or operate a facility at which you conduct a site remediation, as defined in § 63.7957; and this site remediation, unless exempted under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, meets all three of the following conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Your site remediation cleans up a remediation material, as defined in § 63.7957.

(2) Your site remediation is co-located at your facility with one or more other stationary sources that emit HAP and meet an affected source definition specified for a source category that is regulated by another subpart under 40 CFR part 63. This condition applies regardless whether or not the affected stationary source(s) at your facility is subject to the standards under the applicable subpart(s).

(3) Your facility is a major source of HAP as defined in § 63.2, except as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section. A major source emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at the rate of 10 tons (9.07 megagrams) or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 25 tons (22.68 megagrams) or more per year.

(i) For production field facilities, as defined in § 63.761, only the HAP emissions from the glycol dehydration units and storage vessels with the potential for flash emissions (both as defined in § 63.761) shall be aggregated with the HAP emissions from the site remediation activities at the facility for a major source determination.

(ii) For natural gas transmission and storage facilities, HAP emissions shall be aggregated in accordance with the definition of major source in § 63.1271 for a major source determination.

(b) You are not subject to this subpart if your site remediation qualifies for any of one of the exemptions listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Your site remediation is not subject to this subpart if the site remediation only cleans up material that does not contain any of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart.

(2)-(3) [Reserved]

(4) Your site remediation is not subject to this subpart if the site remediation is conducted at a gasoline service station to clean up remediation material from a leaking underground storage tank.

(5) Your site remediation is not subject to this subpart if the site remediation is conducted at a farm or residential site.

(6) Your site remediation is not subject to this subpart if the site remediation is conducted at a research and development facility that meets the requirements under Clean Air Act (CAA) section 112(c)(7).

(c) Your site remediation activities are not subject to the requirements of this subpart, except for the recordkeeping requirements in this paragraph, provided that you meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.

(1) You determine that the total quantity of the HAP listed in Table 1 to this subpart that is contained in the remediation material excavated, extracted, pumped, or otherwise removed during all of the site remediations conducted at your facility is less than 1 megagram (Mg) annually. This exemption applies the 1 Mg limit on a facility-wide, annual basis, and there is no restriction to the number of site remediations that can be conducted during this period.

(2) You must prepare and maintain at your facility written documentation to support your determination that the total HAP quantity in your remediation materials for the year is less than 1 Mg. The documentation must include a description of your methodology and data used for determining the total HAP content of the remediation material.

(3) Your Title V permit does not have to be reopened or revised solely to include the recordkeeping requirement specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. However, the requirement must be included in your permit the next time the permit is renewed, reopened, or revised for another reason.

(d) Your site remediation is not subject to the requirements of this subpart if all remediation activities at your facility subject to this subpart are completed and you have notified the Administrator in writing that all remediation activities subject to this subpart are completed. You must maintain records of compliance, in accordance with § 63.7953, for each remediation activity that was subject to this subpart. All future remediation activity meeting the applicability criteria in this section must comply with the requirements of this subpart.
