
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7882 What site remediation sources at my facility does this subpart affect?
######## Pressure relief devices.

(4)The affected source is any pressure relief device in remediation material service, as defined in ยง 63.7957. Pressure relief devices meeting the specifications of paragraph (a)(3) of this section are also part of an equipment leaks affected source.

(b) Each affected source for your site is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before July 30, 2002.

(c) Each affected source for your site is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after July 30, 2002. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of reconstruction in ยง 63.2.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section:

(1) Each affected source for your site is considered an existing source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under the authority of the Comprehensive Environmental Response and Compensation Liability Act (CERCLA) as a remedial action or a non-time-critical removal action on or before May 13, 2016.

(2) Each affected source for your site is considered an existing source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under a Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) corrective action conducted at a treatment, storage, and disposal facility (TSDF) that is either required by your permit issued by either the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or a state program authorized by the EPA under RCRA section 3006; required by orders authorized under RCRA; or required by orders authorized under RCRA section 7003 on or before May 13, 2016.

(3) Each affected source for your site is considered a new source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under the authority of CERCLA as a remedial action or a non-time-critical removal action after May 13, 2016.

(4) Each affected source for your site is considered a new source if your site remediation commenced construction or reconstruction under a RCRA corrective action conducted at a TSDF that is either required by your permit issued by either the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or a State program authorized by the EPA under RCRA section 3006; required by orders authorized under RCRA; or required by orders authorized under RCRA section 7003 after May 13, 2016.
