
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.7883 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than October 9, 2006, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.

(b) If you have a new affected source that manages remediation material other than a radioactive mixed waste as defined in § 63.7957, then you must meet the compliance date specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable to your affected source, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.

(1) If the affected source's initial startup date is on or before October 8, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by October 8, 2003.

(2) If the affected source's initial startup date is after October 8, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup.

(c) If you have a new affected source that manages remediation material that is a radioactive mixed waste as defined in § 63.7957, then you must meet the compliance date specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable to your affected source, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.

(1) If the affected source's initial startup date is on or before October 8, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than October 9, 2006.

(2) If the affected source's initial startup date is after October 8, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup.

(d) If your facility is an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP as defined in § 63.2, then you must meet the compliance dates specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section.

(1) For each source at your facility that is a new affected source subject to this subpart, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup.

(2) For all other affected sources subject to this subpart, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than 3 years after your facility becomes a major source.

(e) You must meet the notification requirements, according to the schedule applicable to your facility, as specified in § 63.7950 and in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in this subpart.

(f) If the affected source's initial startup date is on or before September 3, 2019, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section by the dates specified in those paragraphs. If the affected source's initial startup date is after September 3, 2019, you must comply with all of the applicable requirements of this subpart upon initial startup or July 10, 2020, whichever is later.

(1) You must comply with the equipment leak requirements of § 63.7920(b)(3), (d), and (e) on or before July 10, 2021.

(2) You must comply with the pressure relief device requirements of § 63.7923(a) on or before January 6, 2021.

(3) You must comply with the pressure relief device requirements of § 63.7923(b) through (f) on or before January 10, 2022.

(4) You must comply with the pressure tank closure device reporting and recordkeeping requirements of §§ 63.7951(b)(11) and 63.7952(a)(7) on or before January 6, 2021.

(5) You must comply with the electronic reporting requirements of § 63.7951(e) through (h) on or before January 6, 2021.

(g) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, the following dates for compliance apply to sources identified in § 63.7882(d):

(1) Site remediations identified in § 63.7882(d)(1) and (2) must comply with the requirements of this subpart that apply to you no later than June 24, 2024.

(2) Site remediations identified in § 63.7882(d)(3) and (4) must comply with the requirements of this subpart that apply to you no later than December 22, 2022, or upon initial startup, whichever is later.
