
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Process Vents
####### § 63.7893 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for process vents?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7890 applicable to your affected process vents by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(b) You must maintain emission levels from all of your affected process vents to meet the facilitywide emission limits in § 63.7890(b) that apply to you, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(1), you maintain the total emissions of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart from all affected process vents at your facility are less than 1.4 kg/hr and 2.8 Mg/yr (3.0 lb/hr and 3.1 tpy).

(2) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(2), you maintain emissions of TOC (minus methane and ethane) from all affected process vents at your facility are less than 1.4 kg/hr and 2.8 Mg/yr (3.0 lb/hr and 3.1 tpy).

(3) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(3), you maintain the total emissions of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart from all affected process vents are reduced by 95 percent by weight or more.

(4) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(4), you maintain that the emissions of TOC (minus methane and ethane) from all affected process vents are reduced by 95 percent by weight or more.

(c) For each closed vent system and control device you use to comply with § 63.7890(b), you have met each requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(d) Keeping records to document continuous compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.
