
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Process Vents
####### § 63.7891 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for process vents?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7890(b) applicable to your affected process vents by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(b) You have measured or determined using the procedures for performance tests and design evaluations in § 63.7941 that emission levels from all of your affected process vents meet the facility-wide emission limits in § 63.7890(b) that apply to you, as follows in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(1), you demonstrate that the total emissions of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart from all affected process vents at your facility are less than 1.4 kg/hr and 2.8 Mg/yr (3.0 lb/hr and 3.1 tpy).

(2) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(2), you demonstrate that emissions of TOC (minus methane and ethane) from all affected process vents at your facility are less than 1.4 kg/hr and 2.8 Mg/yr (3.0 lb/hr and 3.1 tpy).

(3) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(3), you demonstrate that the total emissions of the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart from all affected process vents are reduced by 95 percent by weight or more.

(4) If you elect to meet § 63.7890(b)(4), you demonstrate that the emissions of TOC (minus methane and ethane) from all affected process vents are reduced by 95 percent by weight or more.

(c) For each closed vent system and control device you use to comply with § 63.7890(b), you have met each requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926.

(d) You have submitted a notification of compliance status according to the requirements in § 63.7950.
