
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### General Standards
####### § 63.7886 What are the general standards I must meet for my affected remediation material management units?

(a) For each remediation material management unit that is part of an affected source designated by § 63.7882, you must select and meet the requirements under one of the options specified in paragraph (b) of this section except for those remediation material management units exempted under paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.

(b) For each affected remediation material management unit, you must meet one of the options in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You control HAP emissions from the affected remediation material management unit according to the standards specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable to the unit.

(i) If the remediation material management unit is a tank, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7895 through 63.7898.

(ii) If the remediation material management unit is a container, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7900 through 63.7903.

(iii) If the remediation material management unit is a surface impoundment, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7905 through 63.7908.

(iv) If the remediation material management unit is an oil-water or organic-water separator, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7910 through 63.7913.

(v) If the remediation material management unit is a transfer system, then you control HAP emissions according to the standards specified in §§ 63.7915 through 63.7918.
