
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Containers
####### § 63.7901 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for containers?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7900 that apply to your affected containers by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, as applicable to your containers.

(b) You have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have determined the applicable container control levels specified in § 63.7900 for the containers to be used for your Site Remediation.

(2) You have determined and recorded the maximum vapor pressure or total organic concentration for the remediation material placed in containers with a design capacity greater than 0.46 m, and do not use Container Level 2 or Level 3 controls.

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each container determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Container Level 1 controls if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Each container using Container Level 1 controls will be one of the containers specified in § 63.922(b).

(2) You will operate each container cover and closure device according to the requirements in § 63.922(d), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7900(b)(1).

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each container determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Container Level 2 controls if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Each container using Container Level 2 controls will be one of the containers specified in § 63.923(b).

(2) You will transfer remediation materials into and out of each container according to the procedures in § 63.923(d).

(3) You will operate and maintain the container covers and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.923(d), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7900(b)(2).

(4) You have records that the container meets the applicable U.S. Department of Transportation regulations, or you have conducted an initial test of each container for no detectable organic emissions using the procedures in § 63.925(a), and have records documenting the test results, or you have demonstrated within the last 12 months that each container is vapor-tight according to the procedures in § 63.925(a) and have records documenting the test results.

(e) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each container determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Container Level 3 controls if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each permanent total enclosure you use to comply with § 63.7900, you have performed the verification procedure according to the requirements in § 63.924(c)(1), and prepare records of the supporting calculations and measurements.

(2) You have met each applicable requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926.
