
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Tanks
####### § 63.7895 What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for tanks?
######## i.e.,

(2) If the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material you place in your tank is less than 76.6 kPa, then you must determine which tank level controls (Tank Level 1 or Tank Level 2) apply to your tank as shown in Table 2 of this subpart, and based on your tank's design capacity (expressed in cubic meters (m)) and the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material you place in this tank. If your tank is required by Table 2 of this subpart to use Tank Level 1 controls, then you must meet the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section. If your tank is required by Table 2 of this subpart to use Tank Level 2 controls, then you must meet the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section

(3) If maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material you place in your tank is 76.6 kPa or greater, then the tank must use one of the Tank Level 2 controls specified in paragraphs (d)(3) through (5) of this section. Use of floating roofs under paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section is not allowed for tanks managing these remediation materials.

(4) A tank used for a waste stabilization process, as defined in § 63.7957, must use one of Tank Level 2 controls, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section, that is appropriate for your waste stabilization process.

(c) If you use Tank Level 1 controls, you must install and operate a fixed roof according to the requirements in § 63.902, with the exceptions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section. As an alternative to using this fixed roof, you may choose to use one of Tank Level 2 controls in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) Where § 63.902(c)(2) provides an exception for a spring-loaded pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device which vents to the atmosphere, for any source for the purposes of this subpart, only a conservation vent is eligible for the exception after January 6, 2021. If your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019, the exception for a spring-loaded pressure-vacuum relief valve, conservation vent, or similar type of pressure relief device does not apply, with the exception of a conservation vent, for the purposes of this subpart after July 10, 2020.

(2) The provisions of § 63.902(c)(3) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; for any source the provisions of § 63.902(c)(3) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart after January 6, 2021.

(d) If you use Tank Level 2 controls, you must meet the requirements of one of the options in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Install and operate a fixed roof with an internal floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1)(i), (a)(2), and (b); or

(2) Install and operate an external floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(a)(1)(ii), (a)(2), and (b); or

(3) Install and operate a fixed roof vented through a closed vent system to a control device according to the requirements in § 63.685(g). You must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7925 that apply to your closed vent system and control device; or

(4) Install and operate a pressure tank according to the requirements in § 63.685(h); or

(5) Locate the tank inside a permanent total enclosure and vent emissions from the enclosure through a closed vent system to a control device that is an enclosed combustion device according to the requirements in § 63.685(i). You must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7925 that apply to your closed vent system and control device.

(e) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your tanks. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).
