
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Surface Impoundments
####### § 63.7905 What emissions limitations or work practice standards must I meet for surface impoundments?

(a) You must control HAP emissions from each new and existing surface impoundment subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(iii) according to emissions limitations and work practice standards in this section that apply to your affected surface impoundments.

(b) For each affected surface impoundment, you must install and operate air pollution controls that meet either of the options in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Install and operate a floating membrane cover according to the requirements in § 63.942. § 63.942(c)(2) and (3) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.942(c)(2) and (3) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021; or

(2) Install and operate a cover vented through a closed vent system to a control device according to the requirements in § 63.943. You must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7925 that apply to your closed vent system and control device. § 63.943(c)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.943(c)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(c) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your surface impoundments. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).
