
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Tanks
####### § 63.7896 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for tanks?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7895 that apply to your affected tanks by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section, as applicable to your containers.

(b) You have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have determined the applicable tank control levels specified in § 63.7895(b) for the tanks to be used for your site remediation.

(2) You have determined, according to the procedures in § 63.7944, and recorded the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material placed in each affected tank subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(i) that does not use Tank Level 2 controls.

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each tank determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Tank Level 1 controls if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each tank using Tank Level 1 controls is equipped with a fixed roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.902(b) and (c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7895(c)(1) and (2), and you have records documenting the design.

(2) You have performed an initial visual inspection of the fixed roof and closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.906(a) and you have records documenting the inspection results.

(3) You will operate the fixed roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.902, with the exceptions specified in § 63.7895(c)(1) and (2).

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each tank determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Tank Level 2 controls and using a fixed roof with an internal floating roof according to § 63.7895(d)(1) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each tank is equipped with an internal floating roof that meets the requirements in § 63.1063(a) and you have records documenting the design.

(2) You will operate the internal floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(b).

(3) You have performed an initial visual inspection according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(1) and you have a record of the inspection results.

(e) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each tank determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Tank Level 2 controls and using an external floating roof according to § 63.7895(d)(2) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each tank is equipped with an external floating roof that meets the requirements in § 63.1063(a) and you have records documenting the design.

(2) You will operate the external floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(b).

(3) You have performed an initial seal gap measurement inspection according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(3) and you have records of the measurement results.

(f) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each tank determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Tank Level 2 controls and using a fixed roof vented to a control device according to § 63.7895(d)(3) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Each tank is equipped with a fixed roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.685(g), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7895(c)(1) and (2), and you have records documenting the design.

(2) You have performed an initial visual inspection of fixed roof and closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(b)(3) and you have records documenting the inspection results.

(3) You will operate the fixed roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.685(g).

(4) You have met each applicable requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926.

(g) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each tank determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Tank Level 2 controls and operates as a pressure tank according to § 63.7895(d)(4) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Each tank is designed to operate as a pressure tank according to the requirements in § 63.685(h), and you have records documenting the design.

(2) You will operate the pressure tank and according to the requirements in § 63.685(h).

(h) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each tank determined under paragraph (b) of this section to require Tank Level 2 controls and using a permanent total enclosure vented to an enclosed combustion device according to § 63.7895(d)(5) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status a signed statement that you have performed the verification procedure according to the requirements in § 63.685(i), and you have records of the supporting calculations and measurements.

(2) You have met each applicable requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926.
