
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Tanks
####### § 63.7897 What are my inspection and monitoring requirements for tanks?

(a) You must visually inspect each of your tanks using Tank Level 1 controls for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.906(a).

(b) You must inspect and monitor each of your tanks using Tank Level 2 controls according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5), as applicable to your tanks.

(1) If you use a fixed roof with an internal floating roof according to § 63.7895(d)(1), you must visually inspect the fixed roof and internal floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(1) and (2).

(2) If you use an external floating roof according to § 63.7895(d)(2), you must visually inspect the external floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(1) and inspect the seals according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(2) and (3).

(3) If you use a fixed roof vented to a control device according to § 63.7895(d)(3), you must meet requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must visually inspect the fixed roof and closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(b)(3).

(ii) You must monitor and inspect the closed vent system and control device according to the requirements in § 63.7927 that apply to you.

(4) If you use a pressure tank according to § 63.7895(d)(4), you must visually inspect the tank and its closure devices for defects at least annually to ensure they are operating according to the design requirements in § 63.685(h).

(5) If you use a permanent total enclosure vented to an enclosed combustion device according to § 63.7895(d)(5), you must meet requirements in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must perform the verification procedure for the permanent total enclosure at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.685(i).

(ii) You must monitor and inspect the closed vent system and control device according to the requirements in § 63.7927 that apply to you.
