
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Tanks
####### § 63.7898 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for tanks?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7895 applicable to your affected tanks by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirement to determine the applicable tank control level specified in § 63.7895(b) for each affected tank by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Keeping records of the tank design capacity according to the requirements in § 63.1065(a).

(2) For tanks subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(ii) and not using Tank Level 2 controls, meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Keeping records of the maximum HAP vapor pressure determined according to the procedures in § 63.7944 for the remediation material placed in each affected tank.

(ii) Performing a new determination of the maximum HAP vapor pressure whenever changes to the remediation material managed in the tank could potentially cause the maximum HAP vapor pressure to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the maximum HAP vapor pressure for the tank design capacity specified in Table 2. You must keep records of each determination.

(3) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each tank determined to require Tank Level 1 controls by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the fixed roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.902(c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7895(c)(1) and (2).

(2) Visually inspecting the fixed roof and closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.906(a).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.63.906(b).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.907(a)(3) and (b).

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each tank determined to require Tank Level 2 controls and using a fixed roof with an internal floating roof according to § 63.7895(d)(1) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the internal floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(b).

(2) Visually inspecting the internal floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(1) and (2).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.1063(e).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.1065(b) through (d).

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each tank determined to require Tank Level 2 controls and using an external floating roof according to § 63.7895(d)(2) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the external floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(b).

(2) Visually inspecting the external floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(1) and inspecting the seals according to the requirements in § 63.1063(d)(2) and (3).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.1063(e).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.1065(b) through (d).

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(f) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each tank determined to require Tank Level 2 controls and using a fixed roof vented to a control device according to § 63.7895(d)(3) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the fixed roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.685(g).

(2) Visually inspecting the fixed roof and closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.695(b)(3)(i).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(b)(4).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.696(e).

(5) Meeting each applicable requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(6) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(g) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each tank determined to require Tank Level 2 controls and operated as a pressure tank according to § 63.7895(d)(4) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the pressure tank and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.685(h).

(2) Visually inspecting each pressurized tank and closure devices for defects at least annually to ensure they are operating according to the design requirements in § 63.685(h), and recording the results of each inspection.

(3) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(h) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each tank determined to require Tank Level 2 controls and using a permanent total enclosure vented to an enclosed combustion device according to § 63.7895(d)(5) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Performing the verification procedure for the enclosure annually according to the requirements in § 63.685(i).

(2) Recording the information specified in § 63.696(f).

(3) Meeting each applicable requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(4) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.
