
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Containers
####### § 63.7903 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for containers?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7900 applicable to your affected containers by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirement to determine the applicable container control level specified in § 63.7900(b) for each affected tank by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Keeping records of the quantity and design capacity for each type of container used for your site remediation and subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(ii).

(2) For containers subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(ii) with a design capacity greater than 0.46 mand not using Container Level 2 or Container Level 3 controls, meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Keeping records of the maximum vapor pressure or total organic concentration for the remediation material placed in the containers, as applicable to the conditions in § 63.7900(b)(3)(i) or (ii) for which your containers qualify to use Container Level 1 controls.

(ii) Performing a new determination whenever changes to the remediation material placed in the containers could potentially cause the maximum vapor pressure or total organic concentration to increase to a level that is equal to or greater than the conditions specified in § 63.7900(b)(3)(i) or (ii), as applicable to your containers. You must keep records of each determination.

(3) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each container determined to require Container Level 1 controls by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining covers for each container according to the requirements in § 63.922(d), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7900(b)(1).

(2) Inspecting each container annually according to the requirements in § 63.926(a)(2).

(3) Emptying or repairing each container according to the requirements in § 63.926(a)(3).

(4) Keeping records of an inspection that includes the information in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Date of each inspection; and

(ii) If a defect is detected during an inspection, the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, the corrective action taken to repair the defect, and if repair is delayed, the reason for any delay and the date completion of the repair is expected.

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each container determined to require Container Level 2 controls by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Transferring remediation material in and out of the container according to the requirements in § 63.923(c).

(2) Operating and maintaining container covers according to the requirements in § 63.923(d), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7900(b)(2).

(3) Inspecting each container annually according to the requirements in § 63.926(a)(2).

(4) Emptying or repairing containers according to the requirements in § 63.926(a)(3).

(5) Keeping records of each inspection that include the information in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Date of each inspection; and

(ii) If a defect is detected during an inspection, the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, the corrective action taken to repair the defect, and if repair is delayed, the reason for any delay and the date completion of the repair is expected.

(6) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each container determined to require Container Level 3 controls by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Performing the verification procedure for the enclosure annually according to the requirements in § 63.685(i).

(2) Recording the information specified in § 63.696(f).

(3) Meeting each applicable requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(4) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.
