
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Containers
####### § 63.7900 What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for containers?

(a) You must control HAP emissions from each new and existing container subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(ii) according to emissions limitations and work practice standards in this section that apply to your affected containers.

(b) For each container having a design capacity greater than 0.1 myou must meet the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section that apply to your container except at the times the container is used for treatment of remediation material by a waste stabilization process, as defined in § 63.7957. As an alternative for any container subject to this paragraph, you may choose to meet the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) If the design capacity of your container is less than or equal to 0.46 m, then you must use controls according to the standards for Container Level 1 controls as specified in § 63.922. As an alternative, you may choose to use controls according to either of the standards for Container Level 2 controls as specified in § 63.923. § 63.922(d)(4) and (5) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.922(d)(4) and (5) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(2) If the design capacity of your container is greater than 0.46 m3, then you must use controls according to the standards for Container Level 2 controls as specified in § 63.923 except as provided for in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. § 63.923(d)(4) and (5) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.923(d)(4) and (5) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(3) As an alternative to meeting the standards in paragraph (b)(2) of this section for containers with a capacity greater than 0.46 m3, if you determine that either of the conditions in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) apply to the remediation material placed in your container, then you may use controls according to the standards for Container Level 1 controls as specified in § 63.922. § 63.922(d)(4) and (5) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.922(d)(4) and (5) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(c) At times when a container having a design capacity greater than 0.1 m3 is used for treatment of a remediation material by a waste stabilization process as defined in § 63.7957, you must control air emissions from the container during the process whenever the remediation material in the container is exposed to the atmosphere according to the standards for Container Level 3 controls as specified in § 63.924. You must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7925 that apply to your closed vent system and control device. § 63.924(d) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.924(d) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(d) As an alternative to meeting the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, you may choose to use controls on your container according to the standards for Container Level 3 controls as specified in § 63.924. You must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7925 that apply to your closed vent system and control device. § 63.924(d) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.924(d) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(e) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your containers. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).
