
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Separators
####### § 63.7913 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for separators?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7910 applicable to your affected separators by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section as applicable to your surface impoundments.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each separator using a floating roof according to § 63.7910(b)(1) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1043(b).

(2) Performing seal gap measurement inspections at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.1047(b)(1).

(3) Visually inspecting the floating roof at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.1047(b)(2).

(4) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.1047(d).

(5) Recording the information specified in § 63.1048(a) and (b).

(6) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each separator using a fixed roof vented through a closed vent system to a control device according to § 63.7910(b)(2) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the fixed roof and its closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.1042, with the exceptions specified in § 63.7911(c)(2).

(2) Performing visual inspections of the fixed roof and its closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.1047(a).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.1047(d).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.1048(a).

(5) Meeting each applicable requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(6) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each pressurized separator operated as a closed system according to § 63.7910(b)(3) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Operating the pressurized separator at all times according to the requirements in § 63.1045, with the exceptions specified in § 63.7910(b)(3).

(2) Visually inspecting each pressurized tank and closure devices for defects at least annually to ensure they are operating according to the design requirements in § 63.1045(b), and recording the results of each inspection.
