
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Separators
####### § 63.7911 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for separators?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7910 that apply to your affected separators by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, as applicable to your separators.

(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each separator using a floating roof according to § 63.7910(b)(1) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You have installed a floating roof and closure devices that meet the requirements in § 63.1043(b), and you have records documenting the design and installation.

(2) You will operate the floating roof and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.1043(c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7910(b)(1).

(3) You have performed an initial seal gap measurement inspection using the procedures in § 63.1046(b), and you have records documenting the measurement results.

(4) You have performed an initial visual inspection of the floating roof and closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.1047(b)(2), and you have records documenting the inspection results.

(5) For any portions of the separator using a fixed roof vented to a control device according to § 63.7910(b)(1), you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each separator using a fixed roof vented to a control device according to § 63.7910(b)(2) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You have installed a fixed roof and closure devices that meet the requirements in § 63.1042(b), and you have records documenting the design and installation.

(2) You will operate the fixed roof and its closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.1042(c). § 63.1042(c)(3) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.1042(c)(3) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(3) You have performed an initial visual inspection of the fixed roof and closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.1047(a).

(4) You have met each applicable requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926.

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each pressurized separator that operates as a closed system according to § 63.7910(b)(3) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have installed a pressurized separator that operates as a closed system according to the requirements in § 63.1045(b)(1) and (b)(2), and you have records of the design and installation.

(2) You will operate the pressurized separator as a closed system according to the requirements in § 63.1045(b)(3), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7910(b)(3).
