
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Separators
####### § 63.7912 What are my inspection and monitoring requirements for separators?

(a) If you use a floating roof according to § 63.7910(b)(1), you must meet requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Measure the seal gaps at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.1047(b)(1).

(2) Visually inspect the floating roof at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.1047(b)(2).

(b) If you use a cover vented to a control device according to § 63.7910(b)(1) or (2), you must meet requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must visually inspect the cover and its closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.1047(c).

(2) You must monitor and inspect the closed vent system and control device according to the requirements in § 63.7927 that apply to you.

(c) If you use a pressurized separator that operates as a closed system according to § 63.7910(b)(3), you must visually inspect each pressurized separator and closure devices for defects at least annually to ensure they are operating according to the design requirements in § 63.1045(b), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7910(b)(3).
