
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Separators
####### § 63.7910 What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for separators?

(a) You must control HAP emissions from each new and existing oil-water separator and organic-water separator subject to § 63.7886(b)(1)(iv) according to emissions limitations and work practice standards in this section that apply to your affected separators.

(b) For each affected separator, you must install and operate air pollution controls that meet one of the options in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Install and operate a floating roof according to the requirements in § 63.1043. For portions of the separator where it is infeasible to install and operate a floating roof, such as over a weir mechanism, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section. § 63.1043(c)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.1043(c)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(2) Install and operate a fixed roof vented through a closed vent system to a control device according to the requirements in § 63.1044. You must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7925 that apply to your closed vent system and control device. § 63.1044(c)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.1044(c)(2) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(3) Install and operate a pressurized separator according to the requirements in § 63.1045. § 63.1045(b)(3)(i) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019; § 63.1045(b)(3)(i) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart for any source after January 6, 2021.

(c) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your separators. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).
