
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Surface Impoundments
####### § 63.7906 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations or work practice standards for surface impoundments?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7905 that apply to your affected surface impoundments by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as applicable to your surface impoundments.

(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each surface impoundment using a floating membrane cover according to § 63.7905(b)(1) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You have installed a floating membrane cover and closure devices that meet the requirements in § 63.942(b), and you have records documenting the design and installation.

(2) You will operate the cover and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.942(c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7905(b)(1).

(3) You have performed an initial visual inspection of each surface impoundment and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.946(a), and you have records documenting the inspection results.

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each surface impoundment using a cover vented to a control device according to § 63.7905(b)(2) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You have installed a cover and closure devices that meet the requirements in § 63.943(b), and have records documenting the design and installation.

(2) You will operate the cover and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.943(c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7905(b)(2).

(3) You have performed an initial visual inspection of each cover and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.946(b), and have records documenting the inspection results.

(4) You have met each applicable requirement for demonstrating initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7926.
