
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Surface Impoundments
####### § 63.7908 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for surface impoundments?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7905 applicable to your affected surface impoundments by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section as applicable to your surface impoundments.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each surface impoundment using a floating membrane cover according to § 63.7905(b)(1) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the floating membrane cover and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.942(c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7905(b)(1).

(2) Visually inspecting the floating membrane cover and closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.946(a).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.946(c).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.947(a)(2) and (a)(3).

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each surface impoundment using a cover vented to a control device according to § 63.7905(b)(2) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the floating membrane cover and closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.943(c), with the exceptions specified in § 63.7905(b)(2).

(2) Visually inspecting the cover and its closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.946(b).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.946(c).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.947(a)(2) and (a)(3).

(5) Meeting each applicable requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(6) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements according to the requirements in § 63.7952.
