
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Transfer Systems
####### § 63.7918 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for transfer systems?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7915 applicable to your affected transfer system by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section as applicable to your transfer systems.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each individual drain system using controls according to § 63.7915(b) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the air emission controls for individual drain systems according to the requirements in § 63.962.

(2) Visually inspecting each individual drain system at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.964(a).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.964(b).

(4) Recording the information specified in § 63.965(a).

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each transfer system using covers according to § 63.7915(c)(1) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining each cover and its closure devices according to the requirements in § 63.689(d)(1) through (5).

(2) Performing inspections of each cover and its closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.695(d)(1) through (5).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(5)

(4) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each transfer system that consists of hard piping according to § 63.7915(c)(2) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.
