
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Equipment Leaks and Pressure Relief Devices
####### § 63.7920 What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for equipment leaks?

(a) You must control HAP emissions from each new and existing equipment subject to § 63.7887 according to emissions limitations and work practice standards in this section that apply to your affected equipment.

(b) For your affected equipment, you must meet the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Control equipment leaks according to all applicable requirements under 40 CFR part 63, subpart TT-National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks-Control Level 1, with the differences noted in paragraph (b)(3) of this section for the purposes of this subpart; or

(2) Control equipment leaks according to all applicable requirements under 40 CFR part 63, subpart UU-National Emission Standards for Equipment Leaks-Control Level 2.

(3)(i) For the purpose of complying with the requirements of § 63.1006(b)(2), the instrument reading that defines a leak is 500 parts per million or greater.

(ii) For the purpose of complying with the requirements of § 63.1007(b)(2), the instrument reading that defines a leak is 5,000 parts per million or greater for pumps handling polymerizing monomers; 2,000 parts per million or greater for pumps in food/medical service; and 1,000 parts per million or greater for all other pumps.

(c) If you use a closed vent system and control device to comply with this section, as an alternative to meeting the standards in § 63.1015 or § 63.1034 for closed vent systems and control devices, you may elect to meet the requirements in §§ 63.7925 through 63.7928 that apply to your closed vent system and control device.

(d) For the purposes of this subpart, the requirements of § 63.7920(e) of this subpart apply rather than those of § 63.1030 or of § 63.1011, as applicable, for pressure relief devices in gas and vapor service. The requirements of § 63.7920(e) of this subpart apply rather than those of § 63.1029 or of § 63.1010, as applicable, for pressure relief devices in liquid service.

(e) Operate each pressure relief device under normal operating conditions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above the background level as detected by the method specified in § 63.1004(b) or § 63.1023(b), as applicable.

(f) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your equipment. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).
