
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Closed Vent Systems and Control Devices
####### § 63.7925 What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for closed vent systems and control devices?
######## i.e.,

(2) Introduce the vent stream with the fuel that provides the predominate heat input to the boiler or process heater (the primary fuel); or

(3) Introduce the vent stream to a boiler or process heater for which you either have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H-Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces; or has certified compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.

(g) For each control device other than a flare, you must meet each operating limit in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section that applies to your control device.

(1) If you use a regenerable carbon adsorption system, you must:

(i) Maintain the hourly average total regeneration stream mass flow during the adsorption bed regeneration cycle greater than or equal to the stream mass flow established in the design evaluation or performance test.

(ii) Maintain the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed during regeneration (except during the cooling cycle) greater than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation or performance test.

(iii) Maintain the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed after regeneration (and within 15 minutes after completing any cooling cycle) less than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation.

(iv) Maintain the frequency of regeneration greater than or equal to the frequency established during the design evaluation.

(2) If you use a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system, you must maintain the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed less than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation or performance test.

(3) If you use a condenser, you must maintain the daily average condenser exit temperature less than or equal to the temperature established during the design evaluation or performance test.

(4) If you use a thermal incinerator, you must maintain the daily average firebox temperature greater than or equal to the temperature established in the design evaluation or during the performance test.

(5) If you use a catalytic incinerator, you must maintain the daily average temperature difference across the catalyst bed greater than or equal to the minimum temperature difference established during the performance test or design evaluation.

(6) If you use a boiler or process heater to comply with an emission limit in paragraph (d) of this section, you must maintain the daily average firebox temperature within the operating level established during the design evaluation or performance test.

(h) If you use a carbon adsorption system as your control, you must meet each work practice standard in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section that applies to your control device.

(1) If you use a regenerable carbon adsorption system, you must:

(i) Replace the existing adsorbent in each segment of the bed with an adsorbent that meets the replacement specifications established during the design evaluation before the age of the adsorbent exceeds the maximum allowable age established during the design evaluation.

(ii) Follow the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4).

(2) If you use a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system, you must:

(i) Replace the existing adsorbent in each segment of the bed with an adsorbent that meets the replacement specifications established during the design evaluation before the age of the adsorbent exceeds the maximum allowable age established during the design evaluation.

(ii) Meet the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii).

(3) If you use a nonregenerative carbon adsorption system, you may choose to comply with the requirements in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section as an alternative to the requirements in paragraph (h)(2) of this section. You must:

(i) Immediately replace the carbon canister or carbon in the control device when the monitoring device indicates breakthrough has occurred according to the requirements in § 63.693(d)(4)(iii)(A), or replace the carbon canister or carbon in the control device at regular intervals according to the requirements in § 63.693(d)(4)(iii)(B).

(ii) Follow the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii).

(i) If you use a catalytic incinerator, you must replace the existing catalyst bed with a bed that meets the replacement specifications before the age of the bed exceeds the maximum allowable age established in the design evaluation or during the performance test.

(j) As provided in § 63.6(g), you may request approval from the EPA to use an alternative to the work practice standards in this section that apply to your closed vent systems and control devices. If you request for permission to use an alternative to the work practice standards, you must submit the information described in § 63.6(g)(2).
