
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Equipment Leaks and Pressure Relief Devices
####### § 63.7921 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for equipment leaks?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in § 63.7920 that apply to your affected equipment by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, as applicable to your affected sources.

(b) If you control equipment leaks according to the requirements under § 63.7920(b)(1), you must demonstrate initial compliance if you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You include the information required in § 63.1018(a)(1) in your notification of compliance status report.

(2) You have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status a signed statement that:

(i) You will meet the requirements in §§ 63.1002 through 63.1016 that apply to your affected equipment.

(ii) You have identified the equipment subject to control according to the requirements in § 63.1003, including equipment designated as unsafe to monitor, and have records supporting the determinations with a written plan for monitoring the equipment according to the requirements in § 63.1003(c)(4).

(c) If you control equipment leaks according to the requirements under § 63.7920(b)(2), you must demonstrate initial compliance if you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have included the information required in § 63.1039(a) in your notification of compliance status report.

(2) You have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status a signed statement that:

(i) You will meet the requirements in §§ 63.1021 through 63.1037 that apply to your affected equipment.

(ii) You have identified the equipment subject to control according to the requirements in § 63.1022, including equipment designated as unsafe to monitor, and have records supporting the determinations with a written plan for monitoring the equipment according to the requirements in § 63.1022(c)(4).
