
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Transfer Systems
####### § 63.7918 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for transfer systems?
######## e.g.

(1) Operating and maintaining the pipeline to ensure that all joints or seams between the pipe sections remain permanently or semi-permanently sealed (, a welded joint between two sections of metal pipe or a bolted and gasketed flange).

(2) Inspecting the pipeline for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.7917(c).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.7917(e).

(4) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance for each transfer system that is enclosed and vented to a control device according to § 63.7915(c)(3) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating and maintaining the enclosure to ensure that the internal pressure in the vapor headspace in the enclosure is maintained continuously at a level less than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating.

(2) Inspecting the enclosure and its closure devices for defects at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.7918(d).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.7918(e).

(4) Meeting each applicable requirement for demonstrating continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for a closed vent system and control device in § 63.7928.

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements according to the requirements in § 63.7952.
