
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Transfer Systems
####### § 63.7917 What are my inspection and monitoring requirements for transfer systems?

(a) If you operate an individual drain system as a transfer system according to § 63.7915(b), you must visually inspect each individual drain system at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.964(a).

(b) If you operate a transfer system using covers according to § 63.7915(c)(1), you must inspect each cover and its closure devices for defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(d)(1) through (5).

(c) If you operate a transfer system consisting of hard piping according to § 63.7915(c)(2), you must annually inspect the unburied portion of pipeline and all joints for leaks and other defects. In the event that a defect is detected, you must repair the leak or defect according to the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.

(d) If you operate a transfer system that is enclosed and vented to a control device according to § 63.7915(c)(3), you must meet requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must annually inspect all enclosure components (e.g., enclosure sections, closure devices, fans) for defects that would prevent an internal pressure in the vapor headspace in the enclosure from continuously being maintained at a level less than atmospheric pressure when the control device is operating. In the event that a defect is detected, you must repair the defect according to the requirements of paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) You must monitor and inspect the closed vent system and control device according to the requirements in § 63.7927 that apply to you.

(e) If you are subject to paragraph (c) or (d) of this section, you must repair all detected defects as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must make first efforts at repair of the defect no later than 5 calendar days after detection and repair shall be completed as soon as possible but no later than 45 calendar days after detection except as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(2) Repair of a defect may be delayed beyond 45 calendar days if you determine that repair of the defect requires emptying or temporary removal from service of the transfer system and no alternative transfer system is available at the site to accept the material normally handled by the system. In this case, you must repair the defect the next time the process or unit that is generating the material handled by the transfer system stops operation. Repair of the defect must be completed before the process or unit resumes operation.

(3) You must maintain a record of the defect repair according to the requirements specified in § 63.7952.
