
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Equipment Leaks and Pressure Relief Devices
####### § 63.7923 What monitoring and work practice standards must I meet for pressure relief devices?

(a) For each pressure relief device in remediation material service, you must comply with either paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section following a pressure release actuation event, as applicable.

(1) If the pressure relief device does not consist of or include a rupture disk, return the pressure relief device to the normal operating conditions specified in § 63.7920(e) as soon as practicable and conduct instrument monitoring by the method specified in § 63.1004(b) or § 63.1023(b), as applicable, no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release device returns to remediation material service following a pressure release actuation event, except as provided in § 63.1024(d) or of § 63.1005(c), as applicable.

(2) If the pressure relief device consists of or includes a rupture disk, except as provided in § 63.1024(d) or § 63.1005(c), as applicable, install a replacement disk as soon as practicable but no later than 5 calendar days after the pressure release actuation event.

(b) Except for the pressure relief devices described in paragraph (e) of this section, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section for each pressure relief device in remediation material service.

(c) Equip each pressure relief device in remediation material service with a device(s) or use a monitoring system sufficient to indicate a pressure release to the atmosphere. The device or monitoring system may be either specific to the pressure release device itself or may be associated with the process system or piping. Examples of these types of devices or monitoring systems include, but are not limited to, a rupture disk indicator, magnetic sensor, motion detector on the pressure relief valve stem, flow monitor, pressure monitor, or parametric monitoring system. The device(s) or monitoring systems must be capable of meeting the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Identifying the pressure release;

(2) Recording the time and duration of each pressure release; and

(3) Notifying operators immediately that a pressure release is occurring.

(d) If any pressure relief device in remediation material service releases directly to the atmosphere as a result of a pressure release actuation event, follow the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Calculate the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart released during each pressure release actuation event. Calculations may be based on data from the pressure relief device monitoring alone or in combination with process parameter monitoring data and process knowledge.

(2) Determine the total number of pressure release actuation events that occurred during the calendar year for each pressure relief device.

(3) Determine the total number of pressure release actuation events for each pressure relief device for which the analysis conducted as required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section concluded that the pressure release was due to a force majeure event, as defined in § 63.7957.

(4) Complete an analysis to determine the source, nature and cause of each pressure release actuation event as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after a pressure release actuation event.

(5) Identify corrective measures to prevent future such pressure release actuation events as soon as practicable, but no later than 45 days after a pressure release actuation event.

(6) Implement the corrective measure(s) identified as required by paragraph (d)(5) of this section within 45 days of the pressure release actuation event or as soon thereafter as practicable. For corrective measures that cannot be fully implemented within 45 days following the pressure release actuation event, you must record the corrective measure(s) completed to date, and, for measure(s) not already completed, a schedule for implementation, including proposed commencement and completion dates, no later than 45 days following the pressure release actuation event.

(e) The pressure relief devices listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (6) are not subject to the requirements in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section.

(1) Pressure relief devices designed and operated to route all pressure releases through a closed vent system to a drain system meeting the requirements of §§ 63.7915-63.7918, or to a fuel gas system, process or control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.7925 through 63.7928.

(2) Pressure relief devices in heavy liquid service, as defined in § 63.1001 or § 63.1020, as applicable.

(3) Thermal expansion relief valves.

(4) Pilot-operated pressure relief devices where the primary release valve is routed through a closed vent system to a control device or back into the process, to the fuel gas system, or to a drain system.

(5) Balanced bellows pressure relief devices where the primary release valve is routed through a closed vent system to a control device or back into the process, to the fuel gas system, or to a drain system.

(6) Pressure relief devices on containers, as defined in § 63.7957.

(f) Except for the pressure relief devices described in paragraph (e) of this section, it is a violation of the requirements of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section for any pressure relief device in remediation material service to release directly to the atmosphere as a result of a pressure release actuation event(s) described in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Any pressure release actuation event for which the cause of the event determined as required by paragraph (d)(4) of this section was determined to be operator error or poor maintenance.

(2) A second pressure release actuation event, not including force majeure events, from a single pressure relief device in a 3 calendar-year period for the same cause for the same equipment.

(3) A third pressure release actuation event, not including force majeure events, from a single pressure relief device in a 3 calendar-year period for any reason.
