
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Closed Vent Systems and Control Devices
####### § 63.7925 What emissions limitations and work practice standards must I meet for closed vent systems and control devices?

(a) For each closed-vent system and control device you use to comply with requirements in §§ 63.7890 through 63.7922, as applicable to your affected sources, you must meet the emissions limitations and work practice standards in this section.

(b) You must comply with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply, if your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019. If your initial startup date was on or before September 3, 2019, you must comply with paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section until January 7, 2021, and after that date, you must comply with paragraph (b)(2) of this section, and paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not apply.

(1) Whenever gases or vapors containing HAP are vented through the closed-vent system to the control device, the control device must be operating except at those times listed in either paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The control device may be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the closed-vent system or control device in situations when the routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that the emission point vented to the control device is shutdown. On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform routine maintenance must not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.

(ii) The control device may be bypassed for the purpose of correcting a malfunction of the closed-vent system or control device. You must perform the adjustments or repairs necessary to correct the malfunction as soon as practicable after the malfunction is detected.

(2) Whenever gases or vapors containing HAP are vented through the closed-vent system to the control device, the control device must be operating, except that the control device on a tank may be bypassed for the purpose of performing planned routine maintenance of the control device. When the tank control device is bypassed, the owner or operator must comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The control device may only be bypassed when the planned routine maintenance cannot be performed during periods that tank emissions are vented to the control device.

(ii) On an annual basis, the total time that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform routine maintenance must not exceed 240 hours per each calendar year.

(iii) The level of material in the tank must not be increased during periods that the closed-vent system or control device is bypassed to perform planned routine maintenance.

(c) For each closed vent system, you must meet the work practice standards in § 63.693(c).

(d) For each control device other than a flare or a control device used to comply with the facility-wide process vent emission limits in § 63.7890(b), you must control HAP emissions to meet either of the emissions limits in paragraphs (d)(1) or (2) of this section except as provided for in paragraph (f) of this section.

(1) Reduce emissions of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from each control device by 95 percent by weight; or

(2) Limit the concentration of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from each combustion control device (a thermal incinerator, catalytic incinerator, boiler, or process heater) to 20 ppmv or less on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.

(e) If you use a flare for your control device, then you must meet the requirements for flares in § 63.11(b).

(f) If you use a process heater or boiler for your control device, then as alternative to meeting the emissions limits in paragraph (d) of this section you may choose to comply with one of the work practice standards in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of the boiler or process heater and maintain the conditions in the combustion chamber at a residence time of 0.5 seconds or longer and at a temperature of 760 &#xB0;C or higher; or
