
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7937 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the general standards?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the general standards in §§ 63.7884 through 63.7887 that apply to your affected sources by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, as applicable to you.

(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the general standards in § 63.7885 that apply to your affected process vents by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable to your process vents.

(1) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected process vents according to the emission limitations and work practice standards specified in § 63.7885(b)(1), you have met the initial compliance requirements in § 63.7891.

(2) If the remediation material treated or managed by the process vented through the affected process vents has an average total VOHAP less than 10 ppmw according to § 63.7885(b)(2), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have determined, according to the procedures § 63.7943, and recorded the average VOHAP concentration of the remediation material placed in the affected remediation material management unit.

(3) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected process vents to meet standards in another subpart under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63 according to § 63.7885(b)(3), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You include in your statement the citations for the specific emission limitations and work practice standards that apply to the process vents under the subpart in 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63 that the vents are also subject.

(ii) You are complying with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards specified by the applicable subpart.

(4) For each process vent exempted according to § 63.7885(c), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You identify in your statement each process vent that qualifies for an exemption and the exemption conditions in § 63.7885(c)(1)(i) or (ii) that apply to each exempted process vent.

(ii) You have performed the measurements and prepared the documentation required in § 63.7885(c)(2) that demonstrates that each exempted process vent stream meets the applicable exemption conditions in § 63.7885(c)(1).

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the general standards in § 63.7886 that apply to your affected remediation material management units by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable to your remediation material management units.

(1) If the remediation material management unit uses air pollution controls according to the standards specified in § 63.7886(b)(1), you have met the initial compliance requirements applicable to the remediation material management unit in §§ 63.7896, 63.7901, 63.7906, 63.7911, or 63.7816.

(2) If the remediation material managed in the affected remediation material management unit has an average total VOHAP concentration less than 500 ppmw according to § 63.7886(b)(2), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have determined, according to the procedures in § 63.7943, and recorded the average VOHAP concentration of the remediation material placed in the affected remediation material management unit.

(3) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected remediation material management units to meet standards in another subpart under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63 according to § 63.7886(b)(3), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You include in your statement the citations for the specific emission limitations and work practice standards that apply to the remediation material management units under the subpart in 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63 that the units are also subject.

(ii) You are complying with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards specified by the applicable subpart.

(4) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected remediation material management unit that is an open tank or surface impoundment used for a biological treatment process according to § 63.7886(b)(4), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You have performed the measurements and prepared the documentation required in § 63.7886(b)(4)(i) that demonstrates that each unit meets the applicable performance levels.

(ii) You will monitor the biological treatment process conducted in each unit according to the requirements in § 63.684(e)(4).

(5) For each remediation material management unit used for cleanup of radioactive mixed waste and exempted according to § 63.7886(c), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You include in your statement the citations for the specific requirements that apply to the remediation material management units under regulations, directives, and other requirements under the Atomic Energy Act, the Nuclear Waste Policy Act, or the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant Land Withdrawal Act.

(ii) You are complying with all requirements that apply to the remediation material management units under the applicable regulations or directives.

(6) For each remediation material management unit exempted according to § 63.7886(d), you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You have designated according to the requirements in § 63.7886(d)(1) each of the remediation material management units you are selecting to be exempted.

(ii) You have performed an initial determination and prepared the documentation required in § 63.7886(d)(2) that demonstrates that the total annual HAP quantity (based on the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart) in the remediation material placed in all of the designated exempted remediation material management units will be less than 1 Mg/yr.

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the general standards in § 63.7887 that apply to your affected equipment leak sources by meeting the requirements in § 63.7921.
