
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7935 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## i.e.,

(2) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d) except for the requirements related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction plans referenced in § 63.8(d)(3). The owner or operator shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, the owner or operator shall keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).

(3) If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i). If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, you must address ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c)(1) through (14), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(i) You must operate and maintain the continuous monitoring system according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(j) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each continuous monitoring according to your site-specific monitoring plan.
