
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Closed Vent Systems and Control Devices
####### § 63.7928 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards for closed vent systems and control devices?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in this subpart applicable to your closed vent system and control device by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section as applicable to your closed vent system and control device.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the closed vent system work practice standards in § 63.7925(c) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) For a closed vent system designed to operate with no detectable organic emissions, visually inspecting the closed vent system at least annually, monitoring after a repair or replacement using the procedures in § 63.694(k), and monitoring at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.695(c)(1)(ii).

(2) For a closed vent system designed to operate below atmospheric pressure, visually inspecting the closed vent system at least annually according to the requirements in § 63.695(c)(2)(ii).

(3) Repairing defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(c)(3).

(4) Keeping records of each inspection that include the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) A closed vent system identification number (or other unique identification description you select).

(ii) Date of each inspection.

(iii) If a defect is detected during an inspection, the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection, the corrective action taken to repair the defect, and if repair is delayed, the reason for any delay and the date completion of the repair is expected.

(5) If you elect to monitor the closed vent system according to the requirements in § 63.172(f) through (j), recording the information in § 63.181.

(6) If the closed vent system is equipped with a flow indicator, recording the information in § 63.693(c)(2)(i).

(7) If the closed vent system is equipped with a seal or locking device, visually inspecting the seal or closure mechanism at least monthly according to the requirements in § 63.693(c)(2)(ii), and recording the results of each inspection.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance of each control device subject to the emissions limits in § 63.7925(d) with the applicable emissions limit in § 63.7925(d) by meeting the requirements in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) For the emission limit in § 63.7925(d)(1), maintaining the reduction in emissions of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from the control device at 95 percent by weight or greater.

(2) For the emission limit in § 63.7925(d)(2), maintaining the concentration of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from the control device at 20 ppmv or less.

(d) You must demonstrate continuous compliance of each control device subject to operating limits in § 63.7925(g) with the applicable limits by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Maintaining each operating limit according to the requirements in § 63.7925(g) as applicable to the control device.

(2) Monitoring and inspecting each control device according to the requirements in § 63.7927(b) through (i) as applicable to the control device.

(3) Operating and maintaining each continuous monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.7945, and collecting and reducing data according to the requirements in § 63.7946.

(4) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of this subpart according to the requirements in § 63.7952.

(e) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the spent carbon replacement and disposal work practice standards for regenerable carbon adsorption systems in § 63.7925(h)(1) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Replacing the adsorbent as required by § 63.7925(h)(1)(i).

(2) Following the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii).

(3) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of the work practice standards.

(f) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the spent carbon replacement and disposal work practice standards for nonregenerable carbon adsorption systems in § 63.7925(h)(2) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Replacing the adsorbent as required by the work practice standard in § 63.7925(h)(2)(i).

(2) Following the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii).

(3) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of the work practice standards.

(g) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the spent carbon replacement and disposal work practice standards for nonregenerable carbon adsorption systems in § 63.7925(h)(3) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Monitoring the concentration level of the organic compounds in the exhaust vent for the carbon adsorption system as required in § 63.7927(c), immediately replacing the carbon canister or carbon in the control device when breakthrough is indicated by the monitoring device, and recording the date of breakthrough and carbon replacement. Or, you must replace the carbon canister or carbon in the control device at regular intervals and record the date of carbon replacement.

(2) Following the disposal requirements for spent carbon in § 63.693(d)(4)(ii).

(3) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of the work practice standards.

(h) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the catalyst replacement work practice standards for catalytic incinerators in § 63.7925(i) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Replacing the existing catalyst bed as required in § 63.7925(i).

(2) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of the work practice standards.

(i) You must demonstrate continuous compliance of each flare with the work practice standards in § 63.7925(e) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Operating the flare with no visible emissions except for up to 5 minutes in any 2 consecutive hours according to the requirements in § 63.11(b)(4).

(2) Monitoring the presence of a pilot flare according to the requirements in § 63.7927(h) and maintaining a pilot flame and flare flame at all times that emissions are not vented to the flare according to the requirements in § 63.11(b)(5).

(3) Operating the flare with an exit velocity according to the requirements in § 63.11(b)(6) through (8).

(4) Operating the flare with a net heating value of the gas being combusted according to the requirements in § 63.11(b)(6)(ii).

(5) Keeping records to document compliance with the requirements of the work practice standards.

(j) You must demonstrate continuous compliance of each boiler or process heater with the work practice standards in § 63.7925(f) by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For the work practice standards in § 63.7925(f)(1), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (iv).

(i) Maintaining conditions in the combustion chamber at a residence time of 0.5 seconds or longer and at a combustion zone temperature at 760 &#xB0;C or greater whenever the vent stream is introduced to the flame zone of the boiler or process heater.

(ii) Monitoring each boiler or process heater according to the requirements in § 63.7927(i).

(iii) Operating and maintaining each continuous monitoring system according to the requirements in § 63.7945, and collecting and reducing data according to the requirements in § 63.7946.

(iv) Keeping records to document compliance with residence time design requirement.

(2) For the work practice standards in § 63.7925(f)(2), you maintain the boiler or process heater operations such that the vent stream is introduced with the fuel according to the requirements in § 63.693(g)(1)(iv), or that the vent stream is introduced to a boiler or process heater that meets the requirements in § 63.693(g)(1)(v).

(3) For the work practice standard in § 63.7925(f)(3), you remain in compliance with all terms and conditions of the final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and your boiler or process heater complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H-Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces; or in compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H, as applicable to your boiler or process heater.
