
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Closed Vent Systems and Control Devices
####### § 63.7927 What are my inspection and monitoring requirements for closed vent systems and control devices?

(a) You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section for each closed vent system.

(1) You must monitor and inspect each closed vent system according to the requirements in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) You must monitor, inspect, and repair defects according to the requirements in § 63.695(c)(1)(ii) through (c)(3); or

(ii) You must monitor and inspect the closed vent system according to the requirements in § 63.172(f) through (j) and record the information in § 63.181.

(2) If your closed vent system includes a bypass device, you must meet the requirements in either paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Use a flow indicator to determine if the presence of flow according to the requirements in § 63.693(c)(2)(i); or

(ii) Use a seal or locking device and make monthly inspections as required by § 63.693(c)(2)(ii).

(b) If you use a regenerable carbon adsorption system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Use a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to measure and record the hourly average total regeneration stream mass flow during each carbon adsorption cycle.

(2) Use a CPMS to measure and record the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed during regeneration (except during the cooling cycle).

(3) Use a CPMS to measure and record the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed after regeneration (and within 15 minutes after completing any cooling cycle).

(c) If you use a nonregenerable carbon adsorption system, you must use a CPMS to measure and record the hourly average temperature of the adsorption bed or you must monitor the concentration of organic compounds in the exhaust vent stream according to the requirements in § 63.693(d)(4)(iii)(A).

(d) If you use a condenser, you must use a CPMS to measure and record the hourly average condenser exit temperature and determine and record the daily average condenser exit temperature.

(e) If you use a thermal incinerator, you must use a CPMS to measure and record the hourly average firebox temperature and determine and record the daily average firebox temperature.

(f) If you use a catalytic incinerator, you must use a CPMS with two temperature sensors to measure and record the hourly average temperature at the inlet of the catalyst bed, the hourly average temperature at the outlet of the catalyst bed, the hourly average temperature difference across the catalyst bed, and to determine and record the daily average temperature difference across the catalyst bed.

(g) If you use a boiler or process heater to meet an emission limitation, you must use a CPMS to measure and record the hourly average firebox temperature and determine and record the daily average firebox temperature.

(h) If you use a flare, you must monitor the operation of the flare using a heat sensing monitoring device according to the requirements in § 63.693(h)(3).

(i) If you introduce the vent stream into the flame zone of a boiler or process heater according to the requirements in § 63.7925(f)(1), you must use a CPMS to measure and record the combustion zone temperature.
