
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Closed Vent Systems and Control Devices
####### § 63.7926 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards for closed vent systems and control devices?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limitations and work practice standards in this subpart applicable to your closed vent system and control device by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (h) of this section that apply to your closed vent system and control device.

(b) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the closed vent system work practice standards in § 63.7925(c) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have installed a closed vent system that meets the requirements in § 63.695(c)(1) and (2), and you have records documenting the equipment design and installation.

(2) You have performed the initial inspection of the closed vent system according to the requirements in § 63.695(c)(1)(i) or (ii), and you have records documenting the inspection results.

(c) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each control device subject to the emissions limits in § 63.7925(d) with the applicable emissions limit in § 63.7925(d) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section that apply to you.

(1) For the emissions limit in § 63.7925(d)(1), the emissions of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from the control device, measured or determined according to the procedures for performance tests and design evaluations in § 63.7941, are reduced by at least 95 percent by weight.

(2) For the emissions limit in § 63.7925(d)(2), the concentration of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart or TOC (minus methane and ethane) from the combustion control device, measured by a performance test or determined by a design evaluation according to the procedures in § 63.7941, do not exceed 20 ppmv on a dry basis corrected to 3 percent oxygen.

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each control device subject to operating limits in § 63.7925(g) with the applicable limits if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You have established an appropriate operating limit(s) for each of the operating parameter applicable to your control device as specified in § 63.7925(g)(1) through (6).

(2) You have a record of the applicable operating parameter data during the performance test or design evaluation during which the emissions met the applicable limit.

(e) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the spent carbon replacement and disposal work practice standards for carbon adsorption systems in § 63.7925(h) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you will comply with each work practice standard that applies to your carbon adsorption system.

(f) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the catalyst replacement work practice standards for catalytic incinerators in § 63.7925(i) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you will comply with the specified work practice standard.

(g) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each flare with the work practice standards in § 63.7925(e) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each flare meets the requirements in § 63.11(b).

(2) You have performed a visible emissions test, determined the net heating value of gas being combusted, and determined the flare exit velocity as required in § 63.693(h)(2).

(3) You will operate each flare according to the requirements in § 63.11(b).

(h) You must demonstrate initial compliance of each boiler or process heater with the work practice standards in § 63.7925(f) if you have submitted as part of your notification of compliance status, specified in § 63.7950, a signed statement that you have met the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For the work practice standards in § 63.7925(f)(1), you have records documenting that the boiler or process heater is designed to operate at a residence time of 0.5 seconds or greater and maintain the combustion zone temperature at 760 &#xB0;C or greater.

(2) For the work practice standard in § 63.7925(f)(2), you have records documenting that the vent stream is introduced with the fuel according to the requirements in § 63.693(g)(1)(iv), or that the vent stream is introduced to a boiler or process heater that meets the requirements in § 63.693(g)(1)(v).

(3) For the work practice standard in § 63.7925(f)(3), you have records documenting you either have been issued a final permit under 40 CFR part 270 and your boiler or process heater complies with the requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H-Hazardous Waste Burned in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces; or has been certified in compliance with the interim status requirements of 40 CFR part 266, subpart H.
