
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7936 What requirements must I meet if I transfer remediation material off-site to another facility?

(a) If you transfer to another facility a remediation material generated by your remediation activities and having an average total VOHAP concentration equal to or greater than 10 ppmw (as determined using the procedures specified in § 63.7943), then you must transfer the remediation material to a facility that meets the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. You must record the name, street address, and telephone number of the facility where you send this remediation material.

(b) You may elect to transfer the remediation material to one of the following facilities:

(1) A facility where your remediation material will be directly disposed in a landfill or other land disposal unit according to all applicable Federal and State requirements.

(2) A facility subject to 40 CFR part 63, subpart DD where the exemption under § 63.680(b)(2)(iii) is waived and air emissions from the management of your remediation material at the facility are controlled according to all applicable requirements in the subpart for an off-site material. Prior to sending your remediation material, you must obtain a written statement from the owner or operator of the facility to which you send your remediation material acknowledging that the exemption under § 63.680(b)(2)(iii) will be waived for all remediation material received at the facility from you and your material will be managed as an off-site material at the facility according to all applicable requirements. This statement must be signed by the responsible official of the receiving facility, provide the name and address of the receiving facility, and a copy sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in 40 CFR 63.13.

(3) A facility where your remediation material will be managed according to all applicable requirements under this Subpart.

(i) You must prepare and include a notice with each shipment or transport of remediation material from your site. This notice must state that the remediation material contains organic HAP that are to be treated according to the provisions of this subpart. When the transport is continuous or ongoing (for example, discharge to a publicly owned treatment works), the notice must be submitted to the receiving facility owner or operator initially and whenever there is a change in the required treatment.

(ii) You may not transfer the remediation material unless the owner or operator of the facility receiving your remediation material has submitted to the EPA a written certification that he or she will manage remediation material received from you according to the requirements of §§ 63.7885 through 63.7957. The receiving facility owner or operator may revoke the written certification by sending a written statement to the EPA and to you providing at least 90 days notice that they rescind acceptance of responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in this section. Upon expiration of the notice period, you may not transfer your remediation material to the facility.

(iii) By providing the written certification to the EPA, the receiving facility owner or operator accepts responsibility for compliance with the regulatory provisions listed in paragraph (b)(3) of this section with respect to any shipment of remediation material covered by the written certification. Failure to abide by any of those provisions with respect to such shipments may result in enforcement action by the EPA against the certifying entity according to the enforcement provisions applicable to violations of these provisions by owners or operators of sources.

(iv) Written certifications and revocation statements to the EPA from the receiving facility owner or operator must be signed by the responsible official of the receiving facility, provide the name and address of the receiving facility, and a copy sent to the appropriate EPA Regional Office at the addresses listed in 40 CFR 63.13. Such written certifications are not transferable.

(c) Acceptance by a facility owner or operator of remediation material from a site remediation subject to this Subpart does not, by itself, require the facility owner or operator to obtain a title V permit under 40 CFR 70.3 or 40 CFR 71.3.
