
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.7938 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the general standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the general standards in §§ 63.7884 through 63.7887 that apply to your affected sources by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, as applicable to you.

(b) You have demonstrated continuous compliance with the general standards in § 63.7885 that apply to your affected process vents by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable to your process vents.

(1) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected process vents according to the emission limitations and work practice standards specified in § 63.7885(b)(1), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in § 63.7893.

(2) If the remediation material treated or managed by the process vented through the affected process vents has an average total VOHAP less than 10 ppmw according to § 63.7885(c)(1), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by performing a new determination and preparing new documentation as required in § 63.7885(c)(2) to show that the total VOHAP concentration of the remediation material remains less than 10 ppmw.

(3) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected process vents to meet standards in another subpart under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63 according to § 63.7885(b)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by complying with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards specified by the applicable subpart.

(4) For each process vent exempted according to § 63.7885(c), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by performing new measurements and preparing new documentation as required in § 63.7885(c)(2) that demonstrates that each exempted process vent stream meets the applicable exemption conditions in § 63.7885(c)(1).

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the general standards in § 63.7886 that apply to your affected remediation material management units by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, as applicable to your remediation material management units.

(1) If the remediation material management unit uses air pollution controls according to the standards specified in § 63.7886(b)(1), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements applicable to the remediation material management unit in §§ 63.7898, 63.7903, 63.7908, 63.7913, or 63.7818.

(2) If the remediation material managed in the affected remediation material managements has an average total VOHAP concentration less than 500 ppmw according to § 63.7886(b)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by performing a new determination and preparing new documentation as required in § 63.7886(c)(2) to show that the total VOHAP concentration of the remediation material remains less than 500 ppmw.

(3) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected remediation material management units to meet standards in another subpart under 40 CFR part 61 or 40 CFR part 63 according to § 63.7886(b)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards specified by the applicable subpart.

(4) If HAP emissions are controlled from the affected remediation material management unit that is an open tank or surface impoundment used for a biological treatment process according to § 63.7886(b)(4), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Performing new measurements and preparing new documentation as required in § 63.7886(4)(i) that demonstrates that each unit meets the applicable performance levels.

(ii) Monitoring the biological treatment process conducted in each unit according to the requirements in § 63.7886(4)(i).

(5) For each remediation material management unit used for cleanup of radioactive mixed waste and exempted according to § 63.7886(c), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting all requirements that apply to the remediation material management units under the applicable regulations or directives.

(6) For each remediation material management unit exempted according to § 63.7886(d), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by performing new measurements and preparing new documentation as required in § 63.7886(d)(2) to show that the total annual HAP quantity (based on the HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart) in the remediation material placed in all of the designated exempted remediation material management units remains less than 1 Mg/yr.

(d) You have demonstrated continuous compliance with the general standards in § 63.7887 that apply to your affected equipment leak sources by meeting the requirements in § 63.7923.
