
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Continuous Monitoring Systems
####### § 63.7947 What are my monitoring alternatives?
######## e.g.,

(1) The CEMS used on combustion control devices must include a diluent gas monitoring system (for Oor CO) with the pollutant monitoring system in order to correct for dilution (to 0 percent excess air).

(2) Each CEMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period. Data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of the CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 and Performance Specification 8 (for a total organic emissions CEMS) or Performance Specification 9 (for a HAP emissions CEMS) and Performance Specification 3 (for an Oor COCEMS) of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. The relative accuracy provision of Performance Specification 8, sections 2.4 and 3 need not be conducted.

(4) You must prepare a site-specific monitoring plan for operating, calibrating, and verifying the operation of your CEMS according to the requirements in §§ 63.8(c), (d), and (e).

(5) You must establish the emissions concentration operating limit according to paragraphs (a)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) During the performance test, you must monitor and record the total organic or HAP emissions concentration at least once every 15 minutes during each of the three test runs.

(ii) Use the data collected during the performance test to calculate and record the average total organic or HAP emissions concentration maintained during the performance test. The average total organic or HAP emissions concentration, corrected for dilution as appropriate, is the maximum operating limit for your control device.

(b) You must maintain the daily (24-hour) average total organic or HAP emissions concentration in the exhaust vent stream of the control device outlet less than or equal to the site-specific operating limit established during the performance test.
