
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Performance Tests
####### ยง 63.7944 How do I determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure of my remediation material?

(a) You must determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure of your remediation material using either direct measurement as specified in paragraph (b) of this section or by knowledge as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) Direct measurement to determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure.

(1) Sampling. A sufficient number of samples must be collected to be representative of the remediation material contained in the tank. All samples must be collected and handled according to written procedures prepared by you and documented in a site sampling plan. This plan must describe the procedure by which representative samples of the remediation material are collected such that a minimum loss of organics occurs throughout the sample collection and handling process and by which sample integrity is maintained. A copy of the written sampling plan must be maintained on site in the facility site operating records. An example of an acceptable sampling plan includes a plan incorporating sample collection and handling procedures according to the guidance found in "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods," EPA Publication No. SW-846 or Method 25D in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(2) Analysis. Any one of the following methods may be used to analyze the samples and compute the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material:

(i) Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60 appendix A;

(ii) Methods described in American Petroleum Institute Bulletin 2517, "Evaporation Loss from External Floating Roof Tanks," (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14);

(iii) Methods obtained from standard reference texts;

(iv) ASTM D2879-83 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14); or

(v) Any other method approved by the Administrator.

(c) Use of knowledge to determine the maximum HAP vapor pressure. Documentation must be prepared and recorded that presents the information used as the basis for your knowledge that the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material is less than the maximum vapor pressure limit listed in Table 2 of this subpart for the applicable tank design capacity category.

(d) In the event that you and us disagree on a determination using knowledge of the maximum HAP vapor pressure of the remediation material, then the results from a determination of maximum HAP vapor pressure using direct measurement by EPA Method 25E in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, will be used to determine compliance with the applicable requirements of this subpart. We may perform or require that you perform this determination using direct measurement.
