
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7950 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(e), 63.8(f)(4) and (6), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your affected source before October 8, 2003, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after October 8, 2003, or no later than 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you start up your new or reconstructed affected source on or after the effective date, you must submit an Initial Notification no later than 120 calendar days after initial startup, or no later than 120 calendar days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test, design evaluation, or other initial compliance demonstration, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii).

(1) For each initial compliance demonstration that includes a performance test or design evaluation, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2). You must submit the complete design evaluation and supporting documentation.

(2) For each initial compliance demonstration that does not include a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(f) You must provide written notification to the Administrator of the alternative standard selected under § 63.1006(b)(5) or (6) before implementing either of the provisions.
