
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7951 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) Compliance report due dates. Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit a semiannual compliance report to your permitting authority according to the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.7883 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after your first compliance report is due.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(6) For pressure relief devices in remediation material service subject to the requirements of § 63.7923, submit a description of the device or monitoring system to be implemented, including the pressure relief devices and process parameters to be monitored, and a description of the alarms or other methods by which operators will be notified of a pressure release. If your initial startup date was on or before September 3, 2019, then this information must be submitted with the next semi-annual periodic compliance report. If your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019, this information must be submitted in the first periodic compliance report. The information must be updated in subsequent reports if changes are made.

(7) Semi-annual compliance reports must be submitted according to paragraph (f) of this section.

(b) Compliance report contents. Each compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and, as applicable, paragraphs (b)(4) through (9) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) If your initial startup date was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your SSMP, the compliance report must include the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). If your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, an SSMP and the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i) is not required.

(5) If there were no deviations from any emissions limitations (including operating limit), work practice standards, or operation and maintenance requirements, a statement that there were no deviations from the emissions limitations, work practice standards, or operation and maintenance requirements during the reporting period.

(6) If there were no periods during which a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or CEMS) was out-of-control as specified by § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.

(7) For each deviation from an emissions limitation (including an operating limit) that occurs at an affected source for which you are not using a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or CEMS) to comply with an emissions limitation or work practice standard required in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) and (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(ii) Information on the number of deviations. For each deviation, include the date, time, and duration, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the actions taken to minimize emissions, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause), as applicable, and the corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(8) For each deviation from an emissions limitation (including an operating limit) or work practice standard occurring at an affected source where you are using a continuous monitoring system (including a CPMS or CEMS) to comply with the emissions limitations or work practice standard in this subpart, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) and (b)(8)(i) through (xi) of this section.

(i) Information on the number of deviations. For each deviation, include the date, time, and duration, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the actions taken to minimize emissions, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause), as applicable, and the corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(ii) The date and time that each continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(iii) The date, time, and duration that each continuous monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(iv) For each deviation caused when the daily average value of a monitored operating parameter is less than the minimum operating parameter limit (or, if applicable, greater than the maximum operating parameter limit), the report must include the daily average values of the monitored parameter, the applicable operating parameter limit, and the date and duration of the period that the deviation occurred. For each deviation caused by lack of monitoring data, the report must include the date and duration of period when the monitoring data were not collected and the reason why the data were not collected.

(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and unknown causes.

(vii) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.

(viii) A brief description of the process units.

(ix) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.

(x) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.

(xi) A description of any changes in continuous monitoring systems, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(9) You must include the information on equipment leaks required in periodic reports by § 63.1018(a) or § 63.1039(b).

(10) For pressure relief devices in remediation material service, compliance reports must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For pressure relief devices in remediation material service subject to § 63.7920(e), report the number of occurrences of an instrument reading of 500 ppm above the background level or greater, if detected more than 5 days after a pressure release.

(ii) For pressure relief devices in remediation service subject to § 63.7923(c), report confirmation, yes or no, that the monitoring required to show compliance was conducted during the reporting period.

(iii) For pressure relief devices in remediation material service subject to § 63.7923(d), report each pressure release to the atmosphere, including the following information:

(A) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release actuation event.

(B) An estimate of the mass quantity of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the pressure release actuation event and the method used for determining this quantity.

(C) The source, nature and cause of the pressure release actuation event.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release actuation event.

(E) The measures implemented during the reporting period to prevent future such pressure release actuation events, and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective actions to be implemented subsequent to the reporting period.

(11) Pressure tank closure device or bypass deviation information. Compliance reports must include the information specified in paragraph (b)(11)(iv) of this section when any of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(11)(i) through (iii) of this section are met.

(i) Any pressure tank closure device, as specified in specified in § 63.7895(d)(4), has released to the atmosphere.

(ii) Any closed vent system that includes bypass devices that could divert a vent a stream away from the control device and into the atmosphere, as specified in § 63.7927(a)(2), has released directly to the atmosphere.

(iii) Any open-ended valve or line in an emergency shutdown system which is designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset, as specified in § 63.1014(c) or § 63.1033(c), has released directly to the atmosphere.

(iv) The compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(11)(iv)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) The source, nature and cause of the release.

(B) The date, time and duration of the discharge.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the release and the method used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such releases.
