
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.7951 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report.

(c)If your initial startup was on or before September 3, 2019, then until January 6, 2021, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period that was not consistent with your SSMP, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown and malfunction report according to the requirements of ยง 63.10(d)(5)(ii). If your initial startup date is after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report is not required.

(d) Part 70 monitoring report. If you have obtained a title V operating permit for an affected source pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, you must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If you submit a compliance report for an affected source along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all the required information concerning deviations from any emissions limitation or operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report does not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements for an affected source to your permitting authority.
