
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart GGGGG - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Site Remediation
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.7952 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(1) and (b)(2)(xiv).

(2) If your initial startup date is on or before September 3, 2019, you must continue to keep any records specified in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

(3) If your initial startup was after September 3, 2019, then as of July 10, 2020, and for all sources after January 6, 2021, for each deviation from an emissions limitation (including an operating limit) or work practice standard occurring at an affected source, you must record information on the number of deviations. For each deviation, include the date, time, and duration, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, the actions taken to minimize emissions, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause), as applicable, and the corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(4) For pressure relief devices in remediation material service, keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices that are not subject to the requirements of § 63.7923(c) and (d) under the provisions of § 63.7923(e).

(ii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.7923(a), (c), and (d) that do not consist of or include a rupture disk.

(iii) A list of identification numbers for pressure relief devices subject to the requirements of § 63.7923(a), (c), and (d) equipped with rupture disks.

(5) For pressure relief devices in remediation material service subject to § 63.7923(d), keep records of each pressure release event to the atmosphere as specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) The date, time, and duration of the pressure release event.

(ii) The dates and results of the EPA Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, monitoring following a pressure release event, if applicable. The results of each monitoring event shall include the measured background level and the maximum instrument reading measured at each pressure relief device.

(iii) The dates replacement rupture disks were installed following a pressure release event, if applicable.

(iv) An estimate of the mass quantity of total HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the pressure release event and the method used for determining this quantity.

(v) The source, nature and cause of the pressure release event, including an identification of the affected pressure relief device(s) and a statement noting whether the event resulted from the same cause(s) identified following a previous pressure release event.

(vi) The corrective measures identified to prevent future such pressure release events, or an explanation of why corrective measures are not necessary.

(vii) The actions taken to prevent this pressure release event.

(viii) Records of the corrective measures implemented, including a description of the corrective measure(s) completed within the first 45 days following a pressure release event, and, if applicable, the implementation schedule for planned corrective measures to be implemented subsequent to the first 45 days following the pressure release event, including proposed commencement and completion dates.

(6) Records of the number of pressure release events during each calendar year and the number of those events for which the cause was determined to be a force majeure event. Keep these records for the current calendar year and the past 5 calendar years.

(7)(i) For pressure tank closure devices, as specified in § 63.7895(d)(4), keep records of each release to the atmosphere, including the information specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(iii)(A) through (G) of this section.

(ii) For each closed vent system that includes bypass devices that could divert a stream away from the control device and into the atmosphere, as specified in § 63.7927(a)(2), and each open-ended valve or line in an emergency shutdown system which is designed to open automatically in the event of a process upset, as specified in § 63.1014(c) or § 63.1033(c), keep records of each release to the atmosphere, including the information specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(iii)(A) though (G) of this section.

(iii)(A) The source, nature, and cause of the release.

(B) The date, time, and duration of the release.

(C) An estimate of the quantity of HAP listed in Table 1 of this subpart emitted during the release and the calculations used for determining this quantity.

(D) The actions taken to prevent this release.

(E) The measures adopted to prevent future such release.

(F) Hourly records of whether the bypass flow indicator specified under § 63.7927(a)(2)(i) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.

(G) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 63.7927(a)(2)(ii), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, you must record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanism has been done and record the duration of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has broken.

(8) A record of the fluid level at the beginning and end of each maintenance period during which the tank is subject to § 63.7925(b)(3).

(9) Results of performance tests and performance evaluations as required by § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(10) The records of initial and ongoing determinations for affected sources that are exempt from control requirements under this subpart.

(b) For each continuous monitoring system, you must keep the records as described in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi) that apply to your continuous monitoring system.

(2) Performance evaluation plans, including previous (i.e., superseded) versions of the plan as required in § 63.8(d)(3).

(c) You must keep the records required by this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emissions limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement that applies to you.

(d) You must record, on a semiannual basis, the information in § 63.696(g) for planned routine maintenance of a control device for emissions from process vents.

(e) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
