
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.7985 Am I subject to the requirements in this subpart?

(a) You are subject to the requirements in this subpart if you own or operate miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, that meet the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Are located at or are part of a major source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emissions, as defined in section 112(a) of the Clean Air Act (CAA);

(2) Manufacture coatings as defined in ยง 63.8105;

(3) Process, use, or produce HAP; and

(4) Are not part of an affected source under another subpart of this part 63.

(b) Miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations include the facility-wide collection of equipment described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section that is used to manufacture coatings as defined in ยง 63.8105. Miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations also include cleaning operations.

(1) Process vessels;

(2) Storage tanks for feedstocks and products;

(3) Components such as pumps, compressors, agitators, pressure relief devices, sampling connection systems, open-ended valves or lines, valves, connectors, and instrumentation systems; and

(4) Wastewater tanks and transfer racks.

(c) If the predominant use of a transfer rack loading arm or storage tank (including storage tanks in series) is associated with miscellaneous coating manufacturing, and the loading arm or storage tank is not part of an affected source under a subpart of this part 63, then you must assign the loading arm or storage tank to the miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations. If the predominant use cannot be determined, and the loading arm or storage tank is not part of an affected source under a subpart of this part 63, then you must assign the loading arm or storage tank to the miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations. If the use varies from year to year, then you must base the determination on the utilization that occurred during the year preceding December 11, 2003 or, if the loading arm or storage tank was not in operation during that year, you must base the use on the expected use for the first 5-year period after startup. You must include the determination in the notification of compliance status report specified in ยง 63.8075(d). You must redetermine the predominant use at least once every 5 years after the compliance date.

(d) The requirements for miscellaneous coating manufacturing sources in this subpart do not apply to operations described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA;

(2) The affiliated operations located at an affected source under subparts GG (National Emission Standards for Aerospace Manufacturing and Rework Facilities), KK (National Emission Standards for the Printing and Publishing Industry), JJJJ (NESHAP: Paper and Other Web Coating), MMMM (National Emission Standards for Miscellaneous Metal Parts and Products Surface Coating Operations) and SSSS (NESHAP: Surface Coating of Metal Coil) of this part. Affiliated operations include, but are not limited to, mixing or dissolving of coating ingredients; coating mixing for viscosity adjustment, color tint or additive blending, or pH adjustment; cleaning of coating lines and coating line parts; handling and storage of coatings and solvent; and conveyance and treatment of wastewater;
