
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## General requirements.

(b)(1) If an emission stream contains halogen atoms, and you use a combustion-based control device (excluding a flare) to meet an organic HAP emission limit, you must determine whether the emission stream meets the definition of a halogenated stream by calculating the concentration of each organic compound that contains halogen atoms using the procedures specified in § 63.115(d)(2)(v), multiplying each concentration by the number of halogen atoms in the organic compound, and summing the resulting halogen atom concentrations for all of the organic compounds in the emission stream. Alternatively, you may elect to designate the emission stream as halogenated.

(2) You must comply with paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, opening of a safety device, as defined in § 63.8105, is allowed at any time conditions require it to avoid unsafe conditions.

(ii) Beginning on the compliance dates specified in § 63.7995(e), paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section no longer applies. Instead, opening of a safety device, as defined in § 63.8105, is considered a deviation, as defined in § 63.8105, unless it is a bypass of a control for a process vessel and accounted for as specified in § 63.8005(h).
