
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Compliance requirements for closed vent systems and control devices.

(c)If you use a control device to comply with an emission limit in Table 1, 2, or 5 to this subpart, you must comply with the requirements in subpart SS of 40 CFR part 63 as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) If you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to any combination of control devices (except a flare), you must meet the requirements of § 63.982(c) and the requirements referenced therein.

(2) If you reduce organic HAP emissions by venting emissions through a closed-vent system to a flare, you must meet the requirements of § 63.982(b) and the requirements referenced therein. You may not use a flare to control halogenated vent streams or hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions.

(3) If you use a halogen reduction device to reduce hydrogen halide and halogen HAP emissions that are generated by combusting halogenated vent streams, you must meet the requirements of § 63.994, except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, and the requirements referenced therein. If you use a halogen reduction device before a combustion device, you must determine the halogen atom emission rate prior to the combustion device according to the procedures in § 63.115(d)(2)(v).
