
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Continuous emissions monitoring systems.

(4)Each continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the requirements in ยง 63.8 and paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Each CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable Performance Specification of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and according to paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section. For any CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8, you must also comply with appendix F, procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60.

(A) If you wish to use a CEMS other than a Fourier Transform Infrared Spectroscopy (FTIR) meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 15 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60 or a hydrogen chloride (HCl) CEMS meeting the requirements of Performance Specification 18 in appendix B to 40 CFR part 60 and Quality Assurance Procedure 6 in appendix F to 40 CFR part 60 to measure hydrogen halide and halogen HAP before we promulgate a Performance Specification for such CEMS, you must prepare a monitoring plan and submit it for approval in accordance with the procedures specified in ยง 63.8.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) You must determine the calibration gases and reporting units for TOC CEMS in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 9 or 15 requirements, determine the target analyte(s) for calibration using either process knowledge of the control device inlet stream or the screening procedures of Method 18 on the control device inlet stream.

(B) For CEMS meeting Performance Specification 8 used to monitor performance of a combustion device, calibrate the instrument on the predominant organic HAP and report the results as carbon (C), and use Method 25A or any approved alternative as the reference method for the relative accuracy tests.
