
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## see

(B) As an alternative to using EPA Method 18, you may also use ASTM D6420-18 (incorporated by reference,§ 63.14), but only when the target compounds are all known and the target compounds are all listed in ASTM D6420-18 as measurable; ASTM D6420-18 should not be used for methane and ethane; and ASTM D6420-18 may not be used as a total VOC method.

(iv) Section 63.997(c)(1) does not apply. For the purposes of this subpart, results of all initial compliance demonstrations must be included in the notification of compliance status report, which is due 150 days after the compliance date, as specified in § 63.8075(d)(1).

(v) If you do not have a closed-vent system as defined in § 63.981, you must determine capture efficiency using Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for all stationary process vessels subject to requirements of Table 1 to this subpart.

(vi) You must conduct periodic performance tests and establish the operating limits required by §§ 63.8005(e), 63.8010(b)(1), and 63.8050(d)(3) within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the initial or first periodic performance test before August 14, 2023, unless you are already required to complete periodic performance tests as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and have conducted a performance test on or after August 15, 2018. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.

(vii) You must conduct periodic performance tests and establish the operating limits required by § 63.8005(i) within 5 years following the previous performance test. You must conduct the initial or first periodic performance test before February 22, 2024, unless you are already required to complete a periodic performance test as a requirement of renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and have conducted a performance test on or before February 22, 2024. Thereafter you must conduct a performance test no later than 5 years following the previous performance test. Operating limits must be confirmed or reestablished during each performance test.

(2) [Reserved]
