
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Compliance Dates
####### § 63.7995 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

Except as specified in § 63.8090, you must comply with this subpart according to the requirements of this section.

(a) Except as specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, if you have a new affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your new affected source before December 11, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for new sources in this subpart no later than December 11, 2003.

(2) If you start up your new affected source after December 11, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for new sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) Except as specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section, if you have an existing affected source on December 11, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for existing sources in this subpart no later than December 11, 2006.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.8070 according to the schedule in § 63.8070 and in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards in this subpart.

(e) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or after September 4, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section upon initial startup or no later than August 14, 2020, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction before September 4, 2019, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section no later than August 14, 2023.

(1) The general requirements specified in §§ 63.8000(a)(2), (b)(2), (d)(8), and (f) and 63.8005(d)(5) and (h).

(2) The reporting requirements specified in § 63.8075(e)(5), (e)(6)(ii)(B) and (D), and (e)(6)(iii)(C) and (E).

(3) The recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.8080(c), (e), (f), (h), and (i).

(4) The definitions specified in § 63.8105.

(5) The general provisions as specified in Table 10 to this subpart.

(f) All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before June 7, 2022, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section upon initial startup or February 22, 2024, whichever is later. All affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after June 7, 2022, must be in compliance with the requirements listed in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section upon initial startup, or February 22, 2023, whichever is later.

(1) The general requirements specified in § 63.8005(a)(1)(iii) and (i).

(2) The reporting requirements specified in § 63.8075.

(3) The recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.8080(i) and (g).

(4) The general provisions as specified in table 10 to this subpart.
