
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## Removal of startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements.

(f)Beginning on the compliance dates specified in § 63.7995(e), the referenced provisions specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (22) of this section do not apply when demonstrating compliance with this subpart through referenced provisions of subparts SS, UU, and TT of this part.

(1) Section 63.983(a)(5).

(2) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.984(a).

(3) The phrase "except during periods of start-up, shutdown and malfunction as specified in the referencing subpart" in § 63.985(a).

(4) The phrase "other than start-ups, shutdowns, or malfunctions" in § 63.994(c)(1)(ii)(D).

(5) Section 63.996(c)(2)(ii).

(6) Section 63.997(e)(1)(i).

(7) The term "breakdowns" from § 63.998(b)(2)(i).

(8) Section 63.998(b)(2)(iii).

(9) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(A).

(10) The phrase "other than periods of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions" from § 63.998(b)(5)(i)(C).

(11) The phrase ", except as provided in paragraphs (b)(6)(i)(A) and (B) of this section" from § 63.998(b)(6)(i).

(12) The second sentence of § 63.998(b)(6)(ii).

(13) Section 63.998(c)(1)(ii)(D), (E), (F), and (G).

(14) Section 63.998(d)(1)(ii).

(15) Section 63.998(d)(3)(i) and (ii).

(16) The phrase "may be included as part of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, as required by the referencing subpart for the source, or" from § 63.1005(e)(4)(i).

(17) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1007(e)(1)(ii)(A).

(18) The phrase "(except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1009(e)(1)(i)(A).

(19) The phrase "(except during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1012(b)(1).

(20) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1026(e)(1)(ii)(A).

(21) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1028(e)(1)(i)(A).

(22) The phrase "(except periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction)" from § 63.1031(b)(1).
