
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8005 What requirements apply to my process vessels?
######## General.

(a)(1) You must meet each emission limit and work practice standard in table 1 to this subpart that applies to you, and you must meet each applicable requirement specified in § 63.8000(b), except as specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, you are not required to meet the emission limits and work practice standards in table 1 to this subpart if you comply with § 63.8050 or § 63.8055.

(ii) You must meet the emission limits and work practice standards in Table 1 to this subpart for emissions from automatic cleaning operations. You are not required to meet the emission limits and work practice standards in Table 1 to this subpart for emissions from cleaning operations that are conducted manually.

(iii) You must meet the inorganic HAP emissions limit in table 1 to this subpart during the addition of material containing metal HAP to a process vessel. You are not required to meet this limit for the addition of pigments and other solids that are in paste, slurry, or liquid form.

(2) For each control device used to comply with Table 1 to this subpart, you must comply with subpart SS of this part as specified in § 63.8000(c), except as specified in § 63.8000(d) and (f) and paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(b) When subpart SS of this part 63 refers to process vents, it means process vessel vents for the purposes of this section.

(c) Process condensers, as defined in § 63.1251, are not considered to be control devices for process vessels.
