
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8005 What requirements apply to my process vessels?
######## 4,ii

(3) You must demonstrate that each process condenser is properly operated according to the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(C)()() and (d)(3)(iii)(B). The reference in § 63.1257(d)(3)(iii)(B) to the alternative standard in § 63.1254(c) does not apply for the purposes of this subpart. As an alternative to measuring the exhaust gas temperature, as required by § 63.1257(d)(3)(iii)(B), you may elect to measure the liquid temperature in the receiver.

(4) You must conduct a performance test or compliance demonstration equivalent to an initial compliance demonstration within 360 hours of a change in operating conditions that are not considered to be within the previously established worst-case conditions.

(5) Beginning on the compliance dates specified in § 63.7995(e), § 63.7(e)(1) no longer applies and performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Representative conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown unless specified by the Administrator or an applicable subpart. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.
