
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8005 What requirements apply to my process vessels?
######## Inorganic HAP standards.

(i)You must demonstrate initial compliance with the inorganic HAP limit in table 1 to this subpart and as specified in paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section by following the requirements specified in paragraph (i)(1) or (2) of this section. You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements in ยง 63.11583(a) through (e) and (h).

(1) You must follow the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and include the results in your notification of compliance status report in accordance with ยง 63.8070.

(i) You must conduct the tests under conditions that represent normal operation, during which dry materials are added; tests may be conducted whether or not those dry materials contain metal HAP.

(ii) You must perform the test using EPA Method 5 in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60.

(iii) You must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs with a minimum sample volume of 70 dry standard cubic feet (2 dry standard cubic meters) per run for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3).

(2) For existing sources only, you may demonstrate initial compliance using the results of an emissions test conducted in the past 5 years provided the test meets the requirements in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.
