
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8005 What requirements apply to my process vessels?
######## Flow indicators.

(g)If flow to a control device could be intermittent or bypassed, you must install, calibrate, and operate a flow indicator at the inlet or outlet of the control device to identify periods of no flow, or you must comply with the alternatives requirements of paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section. Periods of no flow may not be used in daily or block averages. You must perform a flow meter verification check annually for at least two points: One at the instrument's zero and the other at the instrument's span.

(1) You must use a valve position or bypass damper position indicator that provides a continuous reading and record of the bypass valve or damper position when the control device is in operation. You must inspect the monitoring system semiannually to verify that the monitor will indicate valve position.

(2) You must secure the bypass line valve or bypass damper in the non-diverting position with a car-seal or a lock-and-key type configuration. You must visually inspect the seal or closure mechanism at least once every month to ensure that the valve is maintained in the non-diverting position and that the vent stream is not diverted through the bypass line. You must also record the occurrence of all periods when the seal or closure mechanism is broken, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out.
