
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Emission Limits, Work Practice Standards, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8015 What requirements apply to my equipment leaks?
######## Exceptions to requirements in § 63.424(a).

(b)(1) When § 63.424(a) refers to "a bulk gasoline terminal or pipeline breakout station subject to the provisions of this subpart," the phrase "a miscellaneous coating manufacturing affected source subject to 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHH" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(2) When § 63.424(a) refers to "equipment in gasoline service," the phrase "equipment in organic HAP service" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) When § 63.424(a) specifies that "each piece of equipment shall be inspected during loading of a gasoline cargo tank," the phrase "each piece of equipment must be inspected when it is operating in organic HAP service" shall apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(4) Equipment in service less than 300 hours per year, equipment in vacuum service, or equipment contacting non-process fluids is excluded from this section.

(c) When § 63.1036 refers to batch processes, any part of the miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations applies for the purposes of this subpart.

(d) For the purposes of this subpart, pressure testing for leaks in accordance with § 63.1036(b) is not required after reconfiguration of an equipment train if flexible hose connections are the only disturbed equipment.
