
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Alternative Means of Compliance
####### § 63.8050 How do I comply with emissions averaging for stationary process vessels at existing sources?
######## Initial compliance.

(c)To demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions averaging alternative, you must comply with the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Estimate uncontrolled emissions from each affected stationary process vessel in pounds per batch using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(2), except as specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. For the purposes of this section, uncontrolled emissions means the emissions from the vessel if it were equipped only with a tightly-fitting vented cover. You must identify the range of typical operating parameters and perform the calculation using the values that result in the highest emissions, and you must document the operating parameters and resulting emissions calculations in the precompliance report.

(i) When you are required to calculate uncontrolled emissions from heating, you may not calculate emissions using Equation 13 of subpart GGG of this part 63.

(ii) The statement in § 63.1257(d)(2)(i)(B) that "the partial pressure of HAP shall be assumed to be 25 percent of the saturated value if the purge flow rate is greater than 100 scfm" does not apply. For the purposes of this subpart, multiply the HAP partial pressure in Equation 12 of 40 CFR part 63, subpart GGG by a HAP-specific saturation factor determined in accordance with Equations 1 through 3 of this section. Solve equation 1 of this section iteratively beginning with saturation factors (in the right-hand side of the equation) of 1.0 for each condensable compound. Stop iterating when the calculated saturation factors for all compounds are the same to two significant figures for subsequent iterations. Note that for multi-component emission streams, saturation factors must be calculated for all condensable compounds, not just the HAP.

(2) Estimate controlled emissions in pounds per batch for each vessel as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Except as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii) and (iii) of this section, estimate controlled emissions as if the vessel were controlled in compliance with entry 2.b.i. in Table 1 to this subpart.

(ii) Estimate the controlled emissions using the control level achieved on November 15, 1990 if that value is greater than the applicable control level required by entry 2.b.i in Table 1 to this subpart.

(iii) Estimate the controlled emissions using the control level required to comply with a State or Federal rule other than this subpart if that level is greater than the applicable control level required by entry 2.b.i in Table 1 to this subpart and the other rule was in effect before the date when you request approval to comply with emissions averaging.

(3) Determine actual emissions in pounds per batch for each vessel in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) If emissions are routed through a closed-vent system to a condenser control device, determine controlled emissions using the procedures specified in § 63.1257(d)(3).

(ii) If emissions are routed through a closed-vent system to any control device other than a condenser, determine actual emissions after determining the efficiency of the control device using the procedures in subpart SS of this part as specified in § 63.8000(c).

(iii) If the vessel is vented to the atmosphere, then actual emissions are equal to the uncontrolled emissions estimated in accordance with paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(4) Provide rationale in the precompliance report for why the sum of the actual emissions will be less than the sum of emissions from the vessels if they had been controlled in accordance with Table 1 to this subpart. The approved actual emissions calculated according to paragraph (c)(3) of this section are emission limits that must be incorporated into your operating permit.
