
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8075 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Precompliance report.

(c)You must submit a precompliance report to request approval of any of the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. We will either approve or disapprove the report within 90 days after we receive it. If we disapprove the report, you must still be in compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards in this subpart by the compliance date.

(1) Requests for approval to set operating limits for parameters other than those specified in §§ 63.8005 through 63.8030, including parameters for enhanced biological treatment units. Alternatively, you may make these requests according to § 63.8(f).

(2) Descriptions of daily or per batch demonstrations to verify that control devices subject to § 63.8000(d)(3) are operating as designed.

(3) A description of the test conditions, data, calculations, and other information used to establish operating limits according to § 63.8005(e)(1).

(4) If you comply with emissions averaging in § 63.8050, the data and results of emission calculations as specified in § 63.8050(c)(1) through (3), and rationale for why the sum of actual emissions will be less than the sum of emissions if the process vessels were controlled in accordance with Table 1 to this subpart as specified in § 63.8050(c)(4).
