
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.8075 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Notification of process change.

(8)(i) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(8)(ii) of this section, whenever you change any of the information submitted in either the notification of compliance status report or any previously reported change to the notification of compliance status report, you must document the change in your compliance report. The notification must include all of the information in paragraphs (e)(8)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original notification of compliance status report under paragraph (d) of this section.

(B) Information required by the notification of compliance status report under paragraph (d) of this section for changes involving the addition of processes or equipment at the affected source.

(ii) You must submit a report 60 days before the scheduled implementation date of any of the changes identified in paragraphs (e)(8)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section.

(A) Any change to the information contained in either the precompliance report or any previously reported change to the precompliance report.

(B) [Reserved]

(C) A change in compliance status.
