
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8075 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance report.

(e)The compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the accuracy of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) Applicable records and information for periodic reports as specified in referenced subparts F, SS, TT, UU, and WW of this part 63.

(5) For each SSM during which excess emissions occur, the compliance report must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), this paragraph (e)(5) no longer applies.

(i) Records that the procedures specified in your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) were followed or documentation of actions taken that are not consistent with the SSMP.

(ii) A description of each malfunction.

(6) The compliance report must contain the information on deviations, as defined in § 63.8105, according to paragraphs (e)(6)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section.

(i) If there are no deviations from any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard specified in this subpart, include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limits, operating limits, or work practice standards during the reporting period.

(ii) For each deviation from an emission limit, operating limit, and work practice standard that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a continuous monitoring system (CMS) to comply with the emission limit or work practice standards in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(6)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(B) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time, and duration of each failure. For each failure the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(C) Operating logs for the day(s) during which the deviation occurred, except operating logs are not required for deviations of the work practice standards for equipment leaks.

(D) On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), report the total bypass hours, as monitored according to the provisions of § 63.8080(h).

(iii) For each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit occurring at an affected source where you are using a CMS to comply with the emission limit in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(6)(iii)(A) through (L) of this section. This includes periods of SSM.

(A) The date and time that each CMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(B) The date, time, and duration that each CEMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(C) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard. For each instance, report the date, time, and duration of each failure. For each failure the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(D) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(E) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(F) A summary of the total duration of CMS downtime during the reporting period, and the total duration of CMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(G) An identification of each HAP that is known to be in the emission stream or wastewater stream, as applicable.

(H) A description of the product being produced.

(I) Identification of the CMS.

(J) The date of the latest CMS certification or audit.

(K) The operating day or operating block average values of monitored parameters for each day(s) during which the deviation occurred.

(L) A summary of the total duration of CMS data unavailability during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(7) If you use a CEMS, and there were no periods during which it was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), include a statement that there were no periods during which the CEMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.
