
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8075 What reports must I submit and when?
######## e.g.,

(i) The results of any applicability determinations (HAP content of coating products; halogenated vent stream determinations; group determinations for storage tanks, wastewater, and transfer operations; and equipment that is in organic HAP service).

(ii) The results of performance tests, engineering analyses, design evaluations, flare compliance assessments, inspections and repairs, and calculations used to demonstrate compliance according to §§ 63.8005 through 63.8030 and 63.8055. For performance tests, results must include descriptions of sampling and analysis procedures and quality assurance procedures.

(iii) Descriptions of monitoring devices, monitoring frequencies, and the operating limits established during the initial compliance demonstrations, including data and calculations to support the levels you establish.

(iv) Identification of parts of the affected source that are subject to overlapping requirements described in § 63.8090 and the authority under which you will comply.

(v) Identify storage tanks for which you are complying with the vapor balancing alternative in § 63.8010(e).

(vi) If you transfer Group 1 wastewater stream to an offsite facility for treatment, include the name and location of the transferee and a description of the Group 1 wastewater stream that is sent to the treatment facility. If the offsite facility provides enhanced biological treatment, also include the certification required by § 63.8020(d) that the offsite facility will comply with the requirements of this subpart.
