
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.8090 What compliance options do I have if part of my plant is subject to both this subpart and another subpart?
######## Compliance with 40 CFR part 63, subpart FFFF.

(c)After the compliance dates specified in § 63.7995, an affected source under this subpart HHHHH that includes equipment that is also part of an affected source under 40 CFR part 63, subpart FFFF is deemed in compliance with this subpart HHHHH if all of the conditions specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section are met.

(1) Equipment used for both miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations and as part of a miscellaneous organic chemical manufacturing process unit (MCPU), as defined in § 63.2435, must be part of a process unit group developed in accordance with the provisions in § 63.2535(l).

(2) For the purposes of complying with § 63.2535(l), a miscellaneous coating manufacturing "process unit" consists of all coating manufacturing equipment that is also part of an MCPU in the process unit group. All miscellaneous coating manufacturing operations that are not part of a process unit group must comply with the requirements of this subpart HHHHH.

(3) The primary product for a process unit group that includes miscellaneous coating manufacturing equipment must be organic chemicals as described in § 63.2435(b)(1).

(4) The process unit group must be in compliance with the requirements in 40 CFR part 63, subpart FFFF as specified in § 63.2535(l)(3)(i) no later than the applicable compliance dates specified in § 63.2445.

(5) You must include in the notification of compliance status report required in § 63.8070(d) the records as specified in § 63.2535(l)(1) through (3).
