
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Miscellaneous Coating Manufacturing
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8080 What records must I keep?

You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section.

(a) Each applicable record required by subpart A of this part 63 and in referenced subparts SS, TT, UU, and WW of this part 63.

(b) If complying with emissions averaging, records of the monthly number of batches for each process vessel, the quarterly actual emissions for each process vessel, the quarterly estimated emissions for each process vessel if it had been controlled as specified in Table 1 to this subpart, and comparison of the sums of the quarterly actual and estimated emissions as specified in § 63.8050(d).

(c) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), a record of each time a safety device is opened to avoid unsafe conditions in accordance with § 63.8000(b)(2). On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), a record of the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The source, nature, and cause of the opening.

(2) The date, time, and duration of the opening.

(3) An estimate of the quantity of total HAP emitted during the opening and the method used for determining this quantity.

(d) Records of the results of each CPMS calibration check and the maintenance performed, as specified in § 63.8000(d)(5).

(e) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), for each CEMS, you must keep the records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), for each CEMS, you must keep the records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period.

(f) Before the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), in the SSMP required by § 63.6(e)(3), you are not required to include Group 2 or non-affected emission points. For equipment leaks only, the SSMP requirement is limited to control devices and is optional for other equipment. On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), the requirements of this paragraph (f) no longer apply.

(g) If you establish separate operating limits as allowed in § 63.8005(e) or (i), you must maintain a log of operation or a daily schedule indicating the time when you change from one operating limit to another.

(h) On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), records of the total source operating time (hours) for stationary process vessels during the semiannual compliance period, and the source operating time (hours) when the control device for stationary process vessels was bypassed during the semiannual compliance period for any reason, as used in determining compliance with the percent emission reduction requirements in Table 1 to this subpart, as specified in § 63.8005(h).

(i) On and after the compliance date specified in § 63.7995(e), for each deviation from an emission limitation reported under § 63.8075(e)(5) or § 63.8005(i), a record of the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, and duration of each failure.

(2) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(j) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
