
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Emissions From Oil and Natural Gas Sources on the Indian Country Lands Within the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in Utah
####### ยง 49.4171 General provisions.
######## Storage vessel

means a tank or other vessel that contains an accumulation of crude oil, condensate, intermediate hydrocarbon liquids, or produced water, and that is constructed primarily of non-earthen materials (such as wood, concrete, steel, fiberglass, or plastic), which provide structural support. A well completion vessel that receives recovered liquids from a well after startup of production following flowback for a period which exceeds 60 days is considered a storage vessel under this subpart. A tank or other vessel will not be considered a storage vessel if it has been removed from service in accordance with the requirements of ยง 49.4173(a)(3), until that tank or other vessel has been returned to service. For the purposes of this subpart, the following are not considered storage vessels:

(i) Vessels that are skid-mounted or permanently attached to something that is mobile (such as trucks, railcars, barges or ships), and are intended to be located at a site for less than 180 consecutive days. If you do not keep or are not able to produce records, as required by ยง 49.4183(a)(1)(iv), showing that the vessel has been located at a site for less than 180 consecutive days, the vessel is considered to be a storage vessel from the date it was first located at the site. This exclusion does not apply to a well completion vessel as described above.

(ii) Process vessels such as surge control vessels, bottoms receivers, and knockout vessels.

(iii) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere.
