
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.8186 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply according to the dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable.

(1) You must comply with each emission limitation, each work practice standard specified in paragraphs § 63.8192(a) through (f) or each work practice standard in paragraphs § 63.8192(e) through (g), and with each recordkeeping and reporting requirement in this subpart that applies to you by December 19, 2006, except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) through (5) of this section.

(2) You must comply with each work practice standard in § 63.8192(a) through (c) and (e) through (h) and the electronic reporting requirements in § 63.8232(g), § 63.8252(g), and § 63.8254(e) by November 7, 2022.

(3) Until November 7, 2022, you must comply with the requirements in § 63.8226(a) and the requirements specified in the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan required at § 63.8226(b).

(4) On and after November 7, 2022, you must comply with the applicable requirements in paragraph § 63.8226(c).

(5) On and after May 6, 2025, you must comply with the emission limitations in § 63.8190(a)(2)(ii) and the notification requirement in § 63.8252(h).

(b) If you have a new or reconstructed mercury recovery facility and its initial startup date is on or before December 19, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and recordkeeping and reporting requirement in this subpart that applies to you by December 19, 2003.

(c) If you have a new or reconstructed mercury recovery facility and its initial startup date is after December 19, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and recordkeeping and reporting requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup.

(d) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in § 63.8252. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source(s).
