
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.8184 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each affected source at a plant site where chlorine and caustic are produced in mercury cells. This subpart applies to two types of affected sources: the mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility, as defined in paragraph (a)(1) of this section; and the mercury recovery facility, as defined in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) The mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility designates an affected source consisting of all cell rooms and ancillary operations used in the manufacture of product chlorine, product caustic, and by-product hydrogen at a plant site. This subpart covers mercury emissions from by-product hydrogen streams and end box ventilation system vents, mercury fugitive emissions associated with cell rooms, hydrogen systems, caustic systems, and storage areas for mercury-containing wastes; and chlorine fugitive emissions associated with the mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility.

(2) The mercury recovery facility designates an affected source consisting of all processes and associated operations needed for mercury recovery from wastes at a plant site. This subpart covers mercury emissions from mercury thermal recovery unit vents and fugitive emission sources of mercury associated with storage areas for mercury-containing wastes.

(b) An affected source at your mercury cell chlor-alkali plant is existing if you commenced construction of the affected source before July 3, 2002.

(c) A mercury recovery facility is a new affected source if you commence construction or reconstruction of the affected source after July 3, 2002. An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the definition of "reconstruction" in ยง 63.2.
