
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.8182 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a mercury cell chlor-alkali plant.

(b) You are required to obtain a title V permit, whether your affected source is a part of a major source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions or a part of an area source of HAP emissions. A major source of HAP is a source that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 10 tons or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 25 tons or more per year. An area source of HAP is a source that has the potential to emit HAP but is not a major source. Nothing in this subpart revises how affected sources are aggregated for purposes of determining whether an affected source is a part of an area, nonmajor, or major source under any provisions of the Clean Air Act (CAA) or EPA's regulations. For information on aggregating affected sources to determine what is a source under title V, see the definition of major source in 40 CFR 70.2, 71.2 and 63.2.

(c) Beginning on December 19, 2006, the provisions of subpart E of 40 CFR part 61 that apply to mercury cell chlor-alkali plants, which are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, are no longer applicable.

(1) ยง 61.52(a);

(2) ยง 61.53(b) and (c); and

(3) ยง 61.55(b), (c) and (d).
