
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8232 What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits?

You must conduct a performance test for each by-product hydrogen stream, end box ventilation system vent, and mercury thermal recovery unit vent according to the conditions detailed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.

(a) You must conduct each performance test under conditions representative of normal operations. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(b) For each performance test, you must develop a site-specific test plan in accordance with ยง 63.7(c)(2).

(c) You must conduct at least three test runs to comprise a performance test, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3) and in either paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) The sampling time and sampling volume for each run must be at least 2 hours and 1.70 dry standard cubic meters (dscm). Mercury results below the analytical laboratory's detection limit must be reported using the reported analytical detection limit to calculate the sample concentration value and, in turn, the emission rate in the units of the standard; or

(2) The sampling time for each test run must be at least 2 hours and the mercury concentration in each field sample analyzed must be at least two times the reported analytical detection limit.

(d) You must use the test methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section and the applicable test methods in paragraphs (d)(5) through (7) of this section.

(1) Method 1 or 1A in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the sampling port locations and the location and required number of sampling traverse points.

(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate.

(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the stack gas molecular weight.

(4) Method 4 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the stack gas moisture content.

(5) For each by-product hydrogen stream, Method 102 in appendix A of 40 CFR part 61 to measure the mercury emission rate after the last control device.

(6) For each end box ventilation system vent, Method 101 or 101A in appendix A of 40 CFR part 61 to measure the mercury emission rate after the last control device.

(7) For each mercury thermal recovery unit vent, Method 101 or 101A in appendix A of 40 CFR part 61 to measure the mercury emission rate after the last control device.

(e) During each test run for a by-product hydrogen stream and each test run for an end box ventilation system vent, you must continuously measure the electric current through the operating mercury cells and record a measurement at least once every 15 minutes.

(f) If the final control device is not a nonregenerable carbon adsorber and if you are demonstrating compliance using periodic monitoring under ยง 63.8240(b), you must continuously monitor the parameters listed in paragraph (f)(1) of this section and establish your maximum or minimum monitoring value (as appropriate for your control device) using the requirements in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(1) During the performance test specified in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section, you must continuously monitor the control device parameters in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section and record a measurement at least once every 15 minutes.

(i) The exit gas temperature from uncontrolled streams;
