
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.8190 What emission limitations must I meet?
######## Emission limits.

(a)You must meet each emission limit in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section that applies to you.

(1) New or reconstructed mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility. Emissions of mercury are prohibited from a new or reconstructed mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility.

(2) Existing mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility. Until the compliance date listed in ยง 63.8186(a)(5), you must comply with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. On and after the compliance date listed in ยง 63.8186(a)(5), you must comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) During any consecutive 52-week period, you must not discharge to the atmosphere total mercury emissions in excess of the applicable limit in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section calculated using the procedures in ยง 63.8243(a).

(A) 0.076 grams of mercury per megagram of chlorine produced (1.5 x 10pounds of mercury per ton of chlorine produced) from all by-product hydrogen streams and all end box ventilation system vents when both types of emission points are present.

(B) 0.033 grams of mercury per megagram of chlorine produced (6.59 x 10pounds of mercury per ton of chlorine produced) from all by-product hydrogen streams when end box ventilation systems are not present.

(ii) Emissions of mercury are prohibited from an existing mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility.

(3) New, reconstructed, or existing mercury recovery facility. You must not discharge to the atmosphere mercury emissions in excess of the applicable limit in paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) 23 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter from each oven type mercury thermal recovery unit vent.

(ii) 4 milligrams per dry standard cubic meter from each non-oven type mercury thermal recovery unit vent.

(b) [Reserved]
