
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8242 What are the installation, operation, and maintenance requirements for my continuous mercury monitoring systems?
######## i.e.,

(v) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures according to the requirements of § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). You shall keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan is revised, you shall keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action shall be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).

(vi) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(4) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each mercury continuous emissions monitor according to your site-specific monitoring plan.

(5) You must operate and maintain each mercury continuous emissions monitor in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(b) If you choose the periodic monitoring option and your final control device is not a nonregenerable carbon adsorber, you must install, operate, and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) for each parameter specified in § 63.8232(f)(1), according to § 63.8(c).
