
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8244 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate continuous compliance?
######## Continuous monitoring option.

(a)You must monitor mercury concentration according to ยง 63.8242(a) at all times that the affected source is operating with the exception of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Except for monitor malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must monitor mercury emissions continuously (or collect data at all required intervals) at all times that the affected source is operating. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions.

(2) You may not use data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities in data averages and calculations used to report emission or operating levels or to fulfill a minimum data availability requirement, if applicable. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing compliance.
