
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8243 What equations and procedures must I use to demonstrate continuous compliance?
######## By-product hydrogen streams and end box ventilation system vents.

(a)For each consecutive 52-week period, you must determine the g Hg/Mg Clproduced from all by-product hydrogen streams and all end box ventilation system vents, if applicable, at a mercury cell chlor-alkali production facility using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section. You must begin collecting data on the compliance date that is specified in § 63.8186 for your affected source and calculate your first 52-week average mercury emission rate at the end of the 52nd week after the compliance date.

(1) Each week, you must determine the weekly mercury emission rate in grams per week for each by-product hydrogen stream and for each end box ventilation system vent, if applicable, using one of the monitoring options in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Continuous mercury monitoring according to §§ 63.8242 and 63.8244(a).

(ii) Periodic monitoring according to § 63.8244(b).

(2) Each week, you must determine the chlorine production and keep records of the production rate as required under § 63.8256(b)(6).

(3) Beginning 52 weeks after the compliance date specified in § 63.8186 for your affected source, you must calculate the 52-week average mercury emission rate from all by-product hydrogen steam and all end box ventilation system vents, if applicable, using Equation 1 of this section as follows:
