
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Emissions From Oil and Natural Gas Sources on the Indian Country Lands Within the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in Utah
####### ยง 49.4173 VOC emissions control requirements for storage vessels.
######## Exemptions.

(b)(1) This section does not apply to storage vessels located at an oil and natural gas source that are subject to the emissions control requirements for storage vessels in 40 CFR part 60, subparts OOOO or OOOOa, or 40 CFR part 63, subpart HH.

(2) This section does not apply to an emergency storage vessel located at an oil and natural gas source, if it meets the following requirements:

(i) The emergency storage vessel is not used as an active storage vessel;

(ii) The owner or operator empties the emergency storage vessel no later than 15 days after receiving fluids;

(iii) The emergency storage vessel is equipped with a liquid level gauge or equivalent device; and

(iv) Records are kept of the usage of each emergency storage vessel as required in ยง 49.4183(a)(3), including the date the vessel received fluids, the volume of fluids received in barrels, the date the vessel was emptied, and the volume of fluids emptied in barrels.

(3) This section does not apply to storage vessels that are removed from service. If you remove a storage vessel from service, you must comply with paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For a storage vessel to be removed from service, you must comply with the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) You must completely empty and degas the storage vessel, such that the storage vessel no longer contains crude oil, condensate, intermediate hydrocarbon liquids or produced water. A storage vessel where liquid is left on walls, as bottom clingage, or in pools due to floor irregularity is considered to be completely empty.

(B) You must keep records as required in ยง 49.4183(a)(4), identifying each storage vessel removed from service and the date of its removal from service.

(ii) If a storage vessel identified in paragraph (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section is returned to service, you must determine its applicability as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, and you must keep records as required in ยง 49.4183(a)(4), identifying the storage vessel and the date of its return to service.
