
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8254 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance report contents.

(b)Each compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, and as applicable, paragraphs (b)(5) through (13) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) If there were no deviations from the continuous compliance requirements in § 63.8246 that apply to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations, work practice standards, and operation and maintenance standards during the reporting period.

(6) If there were no periods during which the mercury continuous emission monitor or CPMS (if applicable) were out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during the which the mercury continuous emissions monitor or CPMS (if applicable) were out-of-control during the reporting period.

(7) For each deviation from the requirements for work practice standards in § 63.8192, the information in paragraphs (b)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For each deviation from the mercury work practice standards in Tables 1 through 4 to this subpart that occurs at an affected source (including deviations where the response intervals were not adhered to as described in § 63.8192(b)), each deviation from the cell room monitoring program monitoring and data recording requirements in § 63.8192(g)(3), and each deviation from the response intervals required by § 63.8192(g)(4) when an action level is exceeded, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and the information in paragraphs (b)(7)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(B) Information on the number, date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(C) A list of the affected sources or equipment.

(ii) For each deviation from the fugitive chlorine requirements in § 63.8192(h), including periods when the chlorine sensors required by § 63.8192(h)(2) were not operating; instances where the chlorine sensors required by § 63.8192(h)(2) were not calibrated and maintained in accordance with manufacturer instructions or spare parts were not maintained; instances where inspections were not performed in accordance with § 63.8192(h)(3)(i) and (ii); and instances where leak repair intervals in § 63.8192(h)(4) were not met; the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and the information in paragraphs (b)(7)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(B) Information on the number, date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(C) A list of the affected sources or equipment.

(8) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source where you are using a mercury continuous emission monitor, according to the site-specific monitoring plan required in § 63.8242(a)(3), to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and the information in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) through (xv) of this section.

(i) A list of the affected sources and equipment.

(ii) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(iii) For each deviation, the cause of the deviation (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and corrective action taken.

(iv) For each deviation, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit.

(v) A description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(vi) The date and time of each instance in which a continuous monitoring system was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(vii) The date, time, and duration of each instance in which a continuous monitoring system was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(viii) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(ix) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(x) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.

(xi) An identification of each hazardous air pollutant that was monitored at the affected source.

(xii) A brief description of the process units.

(xiii) A brief description of the continuous monitoring system.

(xiv) The date of the latest continuous monitoring system certification or audit.

(xv) A description of any changes in monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(9) For each deviation from an operation and maintenance standard occurring at an affected source where you are using the periodic monitoring option specified in § 63.8240(b) and your final control device is not a nonregenerable carbon adsorber, the compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and the information in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (xiii) of this section.

(i) A list of the affected sources or equipment.

(ii) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(iii) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(iv) For each deviation, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit.

(v) A description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(vi) The date and time of each instance in which a CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(vii) The date, time, and duration of each instance in which a CPMS was out-of-control, including the information specified in § 63.8(c)(8).

(viii) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(ix) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period including those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(x) A summary of the total duration of continuous monitoring system downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of monitoring system downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during the reporting period.

(xi) A brief description of the CPMS.

(xii) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(xiii) A description of any changes in monitoring system, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(10) The compliance report must contain the mass of virgin mercury added to cells for the reporting period.

(11) The compliance report must contain each instance in which corrective actions taken under § 63.8244(b)(2)(iv) did not result in average monitoring values being within range within 48 hours of the period that the monitoring value is out of range.

(12) The compliance report must contain each instance in which corrective action taken according to § 63.8244(b)(2)(v) did not result in the maximum hourly temperature being above the reference temperature during the first regeneration cycle following the period that the monitoring value was out of range.

(13) The compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(13)(i) through (iii) for each instance where the 1-hour average concentration of chlorine detected by a chlorine sensor required by § 63.8192(h)(2) was 2 ppmv or greater.

(i) The date and times a chlorine sensor detected chlorine concentrations of 2 ppmv or greater.

(ii) The location of the sensor.

(iii) The date and time that the sensor returned to a 1-hour average concentration of less than 2 ppmv.

(14) The compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(14)(i) and (ii) for all inspections conducted under either § 63.8192(h)(3)(i) or (ii). You must also record the information in paragraphs (b)(14)(iii) through (vii) of this section for each leak identified.

(i) The date of each inspection.
