
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart IIIII - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Mercury Cell Chlor-Alkali Plants
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8256 What records must I keep?
######## General records.

(a)You must keep the records in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) The records specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section related to deviations.

(i) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.8222 and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(ii) Records of the information reported as required in § 63.8254(b)(7) through (9) and (11) through (13).

(b) Records associated with the by-product hydrogen stream and end box ventilation system vent emission limitations and the mercury thermal recovery unit vent emission limitations. You must keep the records in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section related to the emission limitations in § 63.8190(a)(2) through (3) and (b).

(1) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(2) Records of the mercury emissions monitoring conducted during the performance tests.

(3) Records of the continuous or periodic mercury emissions monitoring data.

(4) Records of the 52-week rolling average mercury emissions.
