
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Emissions From Oil and Natural Gas Sources on the Indian Country Lands Within the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in Utah
####### § 49.4173 VOC emissions control requirements for storage vessels.
######## VOC emission control requirements.

(c)For each storage vessel, you must comply with the VOC emissions control requirements of paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.

(1) You must reduce VOC emissions from each storage vessel by at least 95.0 percent on a continuous basis according to paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must equip each storage vessel with a cover that meets the conditions specified in § 49.4176(c), and must route all flashing, working, standing and breathing losses from the storage vessels through a closed-vent system that meets the conditions specified in § 49.4176(d) to:

(i) An operating system designed to recover 100 percent of the emissions and recycle them for use in a process unit or incorporate them into a product; or

(ii) An enclosed combustor or flare that is designed to reduce the mass content of VOC in the natural gas emissions vented to the device by at least 95.0 percent and that is operated as specified in § 49.4177;

(2) You must maintain the source-wide uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the collection of all storage vessels, glycol dehydrators, and pneumatic pumps at an oil and natural gas source at less than 4 tpy. Before using the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate for compliance purposes, you must demonstrate that the uncontrolled actual VOC emissions have remained at less than 4 tpy, as determined monthly for 12 consecutive months. After such demonstration, you must determine the uncontrolled actual VOC emission rate each month. The uncontrolled actual VOC emissions must be calculated using a generally accepted model or calculation methodology. Monthly calculations must be based on the average throughput of the source for the month. Monthly calculations must be separated by at least 14 days. You must comply with paragraph (c)(1) of this section within 30 days of the monthly emissions determination required in this section if the determination indicates that VOC emissions from the collection of all storage vessels, glycol dehydrators, and pneumatic pumps at your oil and natural gas source increased to 4 tpy or greater.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, if you use a control device to reduce emissions from your storage vessels, you must equip each storage vessel with a cover that meets the requirements of § 49.4176(c).

(4) If you use a floating roof to reduce emissions, you must meet the requirements of § 60.112b(a)(1) or (2) and the relevant monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in 40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb.

(5) After a minimum of 12 consecutive months of operation at a source that begins operation on or after February 6, 2023, controls may be removed if the source-wide uncontrolled actual VOC emissions from the collection of all storage vessels, glycol dehydrators, and pneumatic pumps has been maintained at a rate less than 4 tpy, as determined according to paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
