
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.8540 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each existing, new, or reconstructed affected source at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility.

(b) Each existing, new, or reconstructed ceramic tile roller kiln, sanitaryware tunnel kiln, sanitaryware shuttle kiln, ceramic tile glaze line using glaze spraying, sanitaryware glaze spray booth, ceramic tile spray dryer, and floor tile press dryer is an affected source.

(c) Process units not subject to the requirements of this subpart are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) Tunnel, roller or shuttle kilns that are used exclusively for refiring.

(2) Tunnel, roller or shuttle kilns that are used exclusively for setting glazes on previously fired products.

(3) Glaze spray operations that are used exclusively with those kilns listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(4) Process units listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section that are permitted to, but do not, process first-fire ware, until such time as they begin to process first-fire ware.

(5) Glaze spray operations that on average use wet glazes containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent metal HAP (dry weight basis) per spray booth over an entire calendar year.

(6) Raw material processing and handling.

(7) Wall tile press dryers.

(8) Sanitaryware ware dryers.

(9) Sources covered by subparts JJJJJ and SSSSS of this part.

(d) A source is a new affected source if construction of the affected source began after December 18, 2014, and you met the applicability criteria at the time you began construction.

(e) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2.

(f) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
