
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8595 How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating limits?
######## e.g.,,e.g.,

(i) You may average across existing sources in the same kiln type and size category (roller or tunnel kilns, large or small kilns) and the same subcategory (sanitaryware manual or spray machine or robot glaze application) where applicable;

(ii) You may not include a unit in the emissions average if the unit shares a common stack with units in other subcategories;

(iii) You may not include spray dryers or press dryers in the emissions average; and

(iv) You may not average between different types of pollutants.

(3) The averaged emissions rate from the existing sources participating in the emissions averaging option must not exceed the limits in Table 1 to this subpart at all times the affected units are subject to numeric emission limits following the compliance date specified in ยง 63.8545.

(4)(i) You must demonstrate initial compliance using the maximum process rate and the results of the initial performance tests.

(ii) You must use Equation 9 of this section to demonstrate that the PM or mercury emissions from all existing units participating in the emissions averaging option for that pollutant do not exceed the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart.

(5) You must develop and submit upon request to the applicable Administrator for review and approval, an implementation plan for emissions averaging according to the following procedures and requirements in paragraphs (h)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) If requested, you must submit the implementation plan no later than 180 days before the date that the facility intends to demonstrate compliance using the emissions averaging option.

(ii) You must include the information contained in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section in your implementation plan for all emission sources included in an emissions average:

(A) The identification of all existing sources in the averaging group, including for each either the applicable HAP emissions level or the control technology installed and the date on which you are requesting emissions averaging to commence;

(B) The specific control technology or pollution prevention measure to be used for each source in the averaging group and the date of its installation or application. If the pollution prevention measure reduces or eliminates emissions from multiple sources, the owner or operator must identify each source;

(C) The test plan for the measurement of emissions in accordance with the requirements in this section; and

(D) The operating parameters to be monitored for each control system or device consistent with ยง 63.8555 and Table 2 to this subpart, and a description of how the operating limits will be determined.

(iii) If submitted upon request, the Administrator shall review and approve or disapprove the plan according to the following criteria:

(A) Whether the content of the plan includes all of the information specified in paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section; and

(B) Whether the plan presents sufficient information to determine that compliance will be achieved and maintained.

(iv) The applicable Administrator shall not approve an emissions averaging implementation plan containing any of the following provisions:

(A) Any averaging between emissions of differing pollutants or between differing sources; or

(B) The inclusion of any emission source other than an existing unit in the same subcategories.

(i) For each affected source that is subject to the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is equipped with an APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in ยง 63.8(f) and paragraphs (i)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring procedures to the Administrator no later than the notification of intent to conduct a performance test. The request must contain the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) A description of the alternative APCD or process changes.

(ii) The type of monitoring device or procedure that will be used.

(iii) The operating parameters that will be monitored.

(iv) The frequency that the operating parameter values will be determined and recorded to establish continuous compliance with the operating limits.

(2) Establish site-specific operating limits during the performance test based on the information included in the approved alternative monitoring procedures request and, as applicable, as specified in Table 4 to this subpart.
