
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart KKKKK - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8620 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards?
######## Visible emissions testing.

(e)(1)You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart for visible emissions (VE) from tunnel or roller kilns that are uncontrolled or equipped with DIFF, DLS/FF, or other dry control device by monitoring VE at each kiln stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Perform daily VE observations of each kiln stack according to the procedures of Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must conduct the Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.

(ii) If VE are observed during any daily test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan. If no VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily Method 22 tests for any kiln stack, you may decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing from daily to weekly for that kiln stack. If VE are observed during any weekly test, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan, resume Method 22 testing of that kiln stack on a daily basis, and maintain that schedule until no VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily tests, at which time you may again decrease the frequency of Method 22 testing to a weekly basis.

(iii) If VE are observed during any test conducted using Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in ยง 63.8635.
