
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLLLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8687 What performance tests, design evaluations, and other procedures must I use?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Each performance test must be conducted under normal operating conditions and under the conditions specified in Table 3 to this subpart. Operations during periods of startup, shutdown, or nonoperation do not constitute representative conditions for purposes of conducting a performance test. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and explain why the conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Except for opacity and visible emission observations, you must conduct three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(e) You must use the following equations to determine compliance with the emission limitations.

(1) To determine compliance with the particulate matter mass emission rate, you must use Equations 1 and 2 of this section as follows:

(2) To determine compliance with the total hydrocarbon percent reduction standard, you must use Equations 3 and 4 of this section as follows:

(3) To determine compliance with the combustion efficiency standard, you must use Equation 5 of this section as follows:

(4) To determine compliance with the total hydrocarbon destruction efficiency standard for a combustion device that does not use auxiliary fuel, you must use Equation 6 of this section as follows:
