
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLLLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.8683 When must I comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source and start up:

(1) On or before April 29, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than April 29, 2003.

(2) After April 29, 2003, then you must comply with the requirements for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements for existing sources no later than May 1, 2006.

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a (or part of a) major source as defined in § 63.2, then the following requirements apply:

(1) Any portion of the existing facility that becomes a new or reconstructed affected source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup or by April 29, 2003, whichever is later.

(2) All other parts of the source to which this subpart applies must be in compliance with this subpart by 3 years after the date the source becomes a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.8692 according to the schedules in §§ 63.8692 and 63.9(a) through (f) and (h). Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart.
