
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLLLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8691 How do I conduct periodic performance tests and demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations and operating limits?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you according to the procedures specified in Table 5 to this subpart, and you must conduct performance tests as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) Before September 9, 2020, you must report each instance in which you did not meet each operating limit in Table 5 to this subpart that applies to you. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.8693. On and after September 9, 2020, you must report each instance in which you did not meet each operating limit in Table 5 to this subpart that applies to you, except during periods of nonoperation of the affected source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this subpart applies.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Before September 9, 2020, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after September 9, 2020, this paragraph (d) no longer applies.

(e) For each control device used to comply with the PM, THC, opacity, or visible emission standards of this subpart, you must conduct periodic performance tests using the applicable procedures specified in § 63.8687 and Table 4 to this subpart to demonstrate compliance with § 63.8684(a), and to confirm or reestablish the operating limits required by § 63.8684(b). You must conduct periodic performance tests according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, for each existing affected source, and for each new and reconstructed affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after November 21, 2001 and on or before March 12, 2020, you must conduct the first periodic performance test on or before March 13, 2023. As an alternative to the first periodic performance test, you may use the results of a previously-conducted emission test to demonstrate compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart, such as tests for renewing your facility's operating permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that it meets the requirements of § 63.8686(b)(1) through (4). The subsequent periodic performance tests must be conducted no later than 60 months thereafter following the previous performance test.

(2) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, for each new and reconstructed affected source that commences construction or reconstruction after March 12, 2020, you must conduct the first periodic performance test no later than 60 months following the initial performance test required by § 63.8689. If you used the alternative compliance option specified in § 63.8686(b) to comply with the initial performance test, then you must conduct the first periodic performance test no later than 60 months following the date you demonstrated to the Administrator that the requirements of § 63.8686(b) had been met.

(3) If an affected source is not operating on the dates the periodic performance test is required to be conducted as specified in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section, then you are not required to restart the affected source for the sole purpose of complying with paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section. Instead, upon restart of the affected source, you must conduct the first periodic performance test within 60 days of achieving normal operating conditions but no later than 180 days from startup. You must conduct subsequent periodic performance tests no later than 60 months thereafter following the previous performance test.
