
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.8782 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication plant site that operates a flame lamination affected source, as defined at ยง 63.8784(b)(2), and that is located at, or is part of a major emission source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) or that operates a loop slitter affected source, as defined at ยง 63.8784(b)(1), that meets the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The loop slitter affected source uses one or more HAP-based adhesives at any time on or after April 14, 2003.

(2) The loop slitter affected source is located at or is part of a major source of HAP.

(b) A flexible polyurethane foam fabrication plant site is a plant site where pieces of flexible polyurethane foam are bonded together or to other substrates using HAP-based adhesives or flame lamination.

(c) A major source of HAP is a plant site that emits or has the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 10 tons or more per year or any combination of HAP at a rate of 25 tons or more per year.

(d) This subpart does not apply to the following processes in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) Processes that produce flexible polyurethane or rebond foam as defined in subpart III of this part.

(2) A research and development facility, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).
