
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.8784 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each existing, new, or reconstructed affected source at facilities engaged in flexible polyurethane foam fabrication.

(b) The affected sources are defined in this section in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The loop slitter adhesive use affected source is the collection of all loop slitters and associated adhesive application equipment used to apply HAP-based adhesives to bond foam to foam at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication plant site.

(2) The flame lamination affected source is the collection of all flame lamination lines associated with the flame lamination of foam to any substrate at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication plant site.

(c)(1) A new affected source is one that commences construction after August 8, 2001 and meets the applicability criteria of ยง 63.8782 at the time construction commences.

(2) If you add one or more flame lamination lines at a plant site where flame lamination lines already exist, the added line(s) shall be a new affected source and meet new source requirements if the added line(s) are at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication plant site that has the potential to emit 10 tons per year or more of any HAP or 25 tons or more per year of any combination of HAP.

(d) A reconstructed affected source is one that commences reconstruction after August 8, 2001 and meets the criteria for reconstruction as defined in ยง 63.2.

(e) An affected source is existing if it commenced construction or reconstruction on or before August 8, 2001.
