
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.8786 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your new or reconstructed affected source before April 14, 2003, then you must comply with the emission standards for new or reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than April 14, 2003.

(2) If you start up your new or reconstructed affected source on or after April 14, 2003, then you must comply with the emission standards for new or reconstructed sources in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If you have an existing loop slitter affected source, you must comply with the emission standards for existing sources no later than April 14, 2004.

(2) If you have an existing flame lamination affected source, you must comply with the emission standards for existing sources no later than May 17, 2022.

(c) If you have an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP and an affected source subject to this subpart, the provisions in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) A new affected source as specified at § 63.8784(c) or a reconstructed affected source as specified at § 63.8784(d) must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) An existing affected source as specified at § 63.8784(e) must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 1 year after the date on which the area source became a major source.

(d) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.8816 according to the schedule in § 63.8816 and in subpart A of this part. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission standards in this subpart.

(e) If you have a loop slitter affected source, you must have data on hand beginning on the compliance date specified in paragraph (b) of this section as necessary to demonstrate that your adhesives are not HAP-based. The types of data necessary are described in §§ 63.8802 and 63.8810.

(f) You must comply with the electronic reporting requirements according to paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.

(1) You must comply with the performance test and CMS performance evaluation requirements of § 63.8818(j) on or before May 17, 2022.

(2) You must comply with the compliance report requirements of § 63.8818(k) on or before May 17, 2022 or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for 1 year, whichever date is later.
