
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8794 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) For each loop slitter adhesive use affected source, you must be in compliance with the requirements in this subpart at all times.

(b) For each flame lamination affected source, you must be in compliance with the requirements in this subpart at all times.

(c) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(d) For flame lamination affected sources in § 63.8786 using a control device to comply with the emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the process and emissions control equipment during the period between the compliance date specified for your flame lamination affected source in § 63.8786 and the date upon which continuous compliance monitoring systems required by § 63.8810(c) have been installed and verified and any applicable operating limits have been set.

(e) [Reserved]

(f) For each monitoring system required by § 63.8810(c) for flame lamination sources, you must develop and submit for approval a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
