
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8800 What performance tests and other procedures must I use to demonstrate compliance with the emission limit for flame lamination?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in paragraph (c) of this section and under the specific conditions in Table 3 to this subpart.

(c) You must conduct each performance test under conditions representative of normal operations. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of SSM. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(d) You must conduct at least three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3). Each test run must last at least 1 hour.

(e) For new and reconstructed affected sources, you must determine the percent reduction of HAP emissions during the performance test according to paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) If you use chlorinated fire retardant foams, determine the percent reduction of HCl to represent HAP emissions from the source. If you do not use chlorinated fire retardant foams, determine the percent reduction of HCN to represent HAP emissions from the source.

(2) Calculate the concentration of HAP at the control device inlet and at the control device outlet using the procedures in the specified test method.

(3) Compare the calculated HAP concentration at the control device inlet to the calculated HAP concentration at the control device outlet to determine the percent reduction over the period of the performance test, using Equation 1 of this section:

(f) For existing affected sources, you must determine the HCl emissions rate according to paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Calculate the concentration of HCl in the vent outlet to the atmosphere or at the control device outlet, if a control device is used, using the procedures in the specified test method.

(2) Determine the vent outlet gas stream volumetric flow rate or if a control device is used, the control device outlet gas stream volumetric flow rate, using the procedures in the specified test method.

(3) Calculate the HCl emission rate for the period of the performance test using Equation 2 of this section:

(g) You must also meet the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Conduct the performance tests using foams that are representative of foams typically used at your flame lamination affected source. If you use foams containing chlorinated fire retardants, you must conduct the performance tests using these foams.

(2) Establish all applicable operating limits that correspond to the control system efficiency as described in Table 3 to this subpart.
