
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.8810 How do I monitor and collect data to demonstrate continuous compliance?

(a) If you own or operate a loop slitter adhesive use affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Maintain a list of each adhesive and the manufacturer or supplier of each.

(2) Maintain a record of EPA Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63), approved alternative method, or other reasonable means of HAP content determinations indicating the mass percent of each HAP for each adhesive.

(b) If you own or operate a flame lamination affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section if you use a scrubber, or paragraph (b)(4) of this section if you use any other control device.

(1) Keep records of the daily average scrubber inlet liquid flow rate.

(2) Keep records of the daily average scrubber effluent pH.

(3) If you use a venturi scrubber, keep records of daily average pressure drop across the venturi.

(4) Keep records of operating parameter values for each operating parameter that applies to you.

(c) If you own or operate a control device to meet the emissions limitations for a flame lamination affected source, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Except for periods of monitoring-associated repairs and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), you must monitor continuously (or collect data at all required intervals) at all times that the affected source is operating.

(2) In data average calculations and calculations used to report emission or operating levels, you may not use data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, or recorded during required quality assurance or control activities. Nor may such data be used in fulfilling any applicable minimum data availability requirement. You must use all the data collected during all other periods in assessing the operation of the control device and associated control system.

(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
