
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.8812 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit and operating limit in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart that applies to you according to the methods specified in Table 5 to this subpart.

(b) You must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and each operating limit in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the operating limits in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.8818.

(c)-(d) [Reserved]

(e) You must meet the following requirements if you are complying with the adhesive use ban for loop slitter adhesive use described in § 63.8790(a).

(1) If, after you submit the Notification of Compliance Status, you use an adhesive for which you have not previously verified percent HAP mass using the methods in § 63.8802, you must verify that each adhesive used in the affected source meets the emission limit, using any of the methods in § 63.8802.

(2) You must update the list of all the adhesives used at the affected source.

(3) With the compliance report for the reporting period during which you used the new adhesive, you must submit the updated list of all adhesives and a statement certifying that, as purchased, each adhesive used at the affected source during the reporting period met the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
