
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8818 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 6 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each compliance report for flame lamination affected sources semiannually according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.8786 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.8786.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.8786.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(c) For each loop slitter adhesive use affected source, you may submit annual compliance reports in place of semiannual reports.

(d) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(e) The compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) If there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit or operating limit) that applies to you, a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period.

(5) For each deviation from an emission limitation that occurs, the compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(ii) Information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken.

(iii) Information on the number, duration, and cause for continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) downtime incidents, if applicable, other than downtime associated with zero and span and other daily calibration checks.

(f) The compliance report for flame lamination affected sources required by § 63.8810(c) to conduct continuous monitoring must also contain the following information in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control in accordance with the monitoring plan, a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.

(2) If there were periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control in accordance with the monitoring plan, the date, time, and duration of each out-of-control period.

(g) The compliance report for a loop slitter adhesive use affected source must also contain the following information in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each annual reporting period during which you use an adhesive that was not included in the list submitted with the Notification of Compliance Status in § 63.8816(h) (1), an updated list of all adhesives used at the affected source.

(2) A statement certifying that each adhesive that was used at the affected source during the reporting period met the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.

(h) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a compliance report pursuant to Table 6 to this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation (including any operating limit) in this subpart, submission of the compliance report shall be deemed to satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report shall not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permit authority.

(i) [Reserved]

(j) For Performance Test and CMS Performance Evaluation Reports, beginning on May 17, 2022, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or CMS performance evaluation (as defined in § 63.2) required by this subpart, the owner or operator must submit the results of the performance test or CMS performance evaluation following the procedures specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.
