
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8816 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f), and 63.9(b) through (h) that apply to you.

(b) If you own or operate an existing loop slitter or flame lamination affected source, submit an initial notification no later than 120 days after April 14, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) If you own or operate a new or reconstructed loop slitter or flame lamination affected source, submit the application for construction or reconstruction required by § 63.9(b)(1)(iii) in lieu of the initial notification.

(d) If you own or operate a flame lamination affected source, submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(e) If you own or operate a loop slitter affected source, submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii) within 60 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.8786.

(f) If you own or operate a flame lamination affected source, submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii) that includes the results of the performance test conducted according to the requirements in Table 3 to this subpart. You must submit the notification before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test according to § 63.10(d)(2).

(g) For each flame lamination affected source, the Notification of Compliance Status must also include the information in paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) that applies to you.

(1) The operating parameter value averaged over the full period of the performance test (for example, average pH).

(2) The operating parameter range within which HAP emissions are reduced to the level corresponding to meeting the applicable emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart.

(h) For each loop slitter adhesive use affected source, the Notification of Compliance Status must also include the information listed in paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A list of each adhesive used at the affected source, its HAP content (percent by weight), and the manufacturer or supplier of each.

(2) A statement certifying that each adhesive that was used at the affected source during the reporting period met the emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart.
