
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart MMMMM - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Flexible Polyurethane Foam Fabrication Operations
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.8820 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep a copy of each notification and report that you submit to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(b) For each flame lamination affected source, you must also keep the following records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Records of performance tests, as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(2) Records of the operating parameter values required in § 63.8810(b).

(3) The records specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The number of deviations. For each deviation, record the date, time, cause, and duration of the deviation.

(ii) For each deviation, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(iii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.8794(c), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(c) For each loop slitter adhesive use affected source, you must keep the following records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A list of each adhesive and the manufacturer or supplier of each.

(2) A record of EPA Method 311 (appendix A to 40 CFR part 63), approved alternative method, or other reasonable means of determining the mass percent of total HAP for each adhesive used at the affected source.
