
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Hydrochloric Acid Production
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9005 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) Before October 13, 2020, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after April 17, 2003, but before February 5, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emission limitations and work practice standards in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. After October 13, 2020, for each such source you must be in compliance with the emission limitations in this subpart at all times. For new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after February 4, 2019, you must be in compliance with the emissions limitations in this subpart at all times.

(b) Before October 13, 2020, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after April 17, 2003, but before February 5, 2019, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). After October 13, 2020 for each such source, and after April 15, 2020 for new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after February 4, 2019, at all times you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(c) Before October 13, 2020, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after April 17, 2003, but before February 5, 2019, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). For each such source, a startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required after October 13, 2020. No startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is required for any new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after February 4, 2019.

(d) All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturer's specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately. For each monitoring system required in this section, you must develop, implement, and submit to the Administrator a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the installation requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section, the ongoing procedures in paragraphs (d)(4) through (6) of this section, and the requirements in § 63.9025, as applicable. You must submit the plan with your Notification of Compliance Status. Upon request of the Administrator, you must promptly correct any deficiencies in a site-specific monitoring plan and submit the revised plan.

(1) Installation of the continuous monitoring system (CMS) sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device).

(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system.

(3) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations).

(4) Before October 13, 2020, for each existing source, and for each new or reconstructed source for which construction or reconstruction commenced after April 17, 2003, but before February 5, 2019, ongoing operation and maintenance (O&M) procedures in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(1) and (3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(7) and (8), and 63.9025. After October 13, 2020 for each such source, and after April 15, 2020 for new and reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after February 4, 2019, ongoing operation and maintenance (O&M) procedures in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), (c)(4)(ii), and (c)(7) and (8), and 63.9025.
