
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Emissions From Oil and Natural Gas Sources on the Indian Country Lands Within the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in Utah
####### ยง 49.4178 VOC emissions control requirements for fugitive emissions.
######## Procedures for determining total well site production.

(e)The total well site production must be determined according to the following procedures:

(1) Calculate the total average boe per day for each calendar month using:

(i) For existing well sites, the records of production for the first 30 days after becoming subject to this section.

(ii) For well sites that commence construction, reconstruction or modification on or after February 6, 2023, the first 30 days of production, performing the calculation within 45 days of the end of the first 30 days of production.

(2) Determine the daily oil and natural gas production for each individual well at the well site for the month. To convert gas production to equivalent barrels of oil, divide the cubic feet of gas produced by 6,000.

(3) Sum the daily production for each individual well at the well site to determine the total well site production and divide by the total number of days in the calendar month. This is the average daily total well site production for the month.

(4) Use the result determined in paragraph (e)(2) of this section and average with the daily average well site production values determined for each of the preceding 11 months to calculate the rolling 12-month average of the total well site production.
