
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Hydrochloric Acid Production
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.8990 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new, reconstructed, or existing affected source at an HCl production facility.

(b) The affected source is the group of one or more HCl production facilities at a plant site that are subject to this subpart, and all associated wastewater operations, which contain the collection of emission streams listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Each emission stream from an HCl process vent.

(2) Each emission stream from an HCl storage tank.

(3) Each emission stream from an HCl transfer operation.

(4) Each emission stream resulting from leaks from equipment in HCl service.

(5) Each emission stream from HCl wastewater operations. There are no emission limitations or other requirements in this subpart that apply to HCl wastewater operations.

(c) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction of the affected source after September 18, 2001 and you met the applicability criteria of ยง 63.8985 at the time you commenced construction.

(d) An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2.

(e) An affected source is existing if it is not new or reconstructed.
