
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Hydrochloric Acid Production
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.9000 What emission limitations and work practice standards must I meet?

(a) With the exceptions noted in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, you must meet the applicable emission limit and work practice standard in table 1 to this subpart for each emission stream listed under ยง 63.8990(b)(1) through (4) that is part of your affected source.

(b) With the exceptions noted in paragraph (c) of this section, you must meet the applicable operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart for each emission stream listed under ยง 63.8990(b)(1) through (3) that is part of your affected source.

(c) The emission streams listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section are exempt from the emission limitations, work practice standards, and all other requirements of this subpart.

(1) Emission streams from HCl storage tanks that never store liquid HCl product with a concentration of 30 weight percent or greater.

(2) Emission streams from HCl transfer operations that never load liquid HCl product with a concentration of 30 weight percent or greater.

(3) Emission streams from HCl wastewater operations.

(4) Emission streams from HCl process vents, HCl storage tanks, and HCl transfer operations that are also subject to 40 CFR part 63, subpart EEE, National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Hazardous Waste Combustors, or 40 CFR 266.107, subpart H, Burning of Hazardous Waste in Boilers and Industrial Furnaces.

(d) The emission limits for HCl storage tanks in table 1 to this subpart do not apply during periods of planned routine maintenance of HCl storage tank control devices. Periods of planned routine maintenance of each HCl storage tank control device, during which the control device does not meet the emission limits specified in table 1 to this subpart, shall not exceed 240 hours per year.
