
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Hydrochloric Acid Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.9050 What reports must I submit and when?
######## Confidential business information (CBI).

(3)If you claim some of the information submitted under paragraph (g)(1) of this section is CBI, you must submit a complete file, including information claimed to be CBI, to the EPA. The file must be generated through the use of the EPA's ERT or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the EPA's ERT website. Submit the file on a compact disc, flash drive or other commonly used electronic storage medium and clearly mark the medium as CBI. Mail the electronic medium to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(i) You must submit to the Administrator compliance reports. Beginning on April 16, 2021 or 1 year after the appropriate electronic reporting template becomes available on the CEDRI website, whichever is later, submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (l) of this section.

(j) You must submit to the Administrator performance evaluations. Beginning on April 16, 2021 or 1 year after the appropriate electronic reporting template becomes available on the CEDRI website, whichever is later, submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (l) of this section.

(k) You must submit to the Administrator a Notification of Compliance Status. Beginning on April 16, 2021 or 1 year after the appropriate electronic reporting template becomes available on the CEDRI website, whichever is later, submit all subsequent reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (l) of this section.
