
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Hydrochloric Acid Production
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9055 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep a copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(b) You must also keep the following records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after April 17, 2003, but before February 5, 2019, before October 13, 2020, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, and malfunction for a period of 5 years. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required after October 13, 2020.

(2) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(3) Records of operating parameter values that are consistent with your monitoring plan.

(4) Records of the date and time that each deviation started and stopped and whether the deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(5) Copies of the current versions of the site-specific monitoring plan and the equipment LDAR plan. You also must submit copies of these plans and any revisions or updates to the Administrator for comment only (not for approval).

(6) Records of the planned routine maintenance performed on each HCl storage tank control device including the duration of each time the control device does not meet the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart, as applicable, due to planned routine maintenance. Such a record shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The first time of day and date the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart, as applicable, were not met at the beginning of the planned routine maintenance, and

(ii) The first time of day and date the emission limits in table 1 to this subpart, as applicable, were met at the conclusion of the planned routine maintenance.

(c) After October 13, 2020, you must keep records of each deviation specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For each deviation record the date, time, and duration of each deviation.

(2) For each deviation, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(3) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.9005(b), and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(d) Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
