
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Engine Test Cells/Stands
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.9290 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?
######## Reconstructed affected source.

(3)An affected source is reconstructed if you meet the definition of reconstruction in ยง 63.2 of subpart A of this part and reconstruction is commenced after May 14, 2002. Changes made to an existing affected source primarily for the purpose of complying with revisions to engine testing requirements under 40 CFR parts 80, 86, 89, 90, 91, or 92 are not considered a modification or reconstruction. In addition, passive measurement and control instrumentation and electronics are not included as part of any affected source reconstruction evaluation.

(b) Existing affected sources do not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part.

(c) Any portion of a new or reconstructed affected source located at a major source that is used exclusively for testing internal combustion engines with rated power of less than 25 horsepower (hp) (19 kilowatts(kW)) does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part except for the initial notification requirements of ยง 63.9345(b).

(d) Any portion of a new or reconstructed affected source located at a major source that meets any of the criteria specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section does not have to meet the requirements of this subpart and of subpart A of this part.

(1) Any portion of the affected source used exclusively for testing combustion turbine engines.

(2) Any portion of the affected source used exclusively for testing rocket engines.

(3) Any portion of the affected source used in research and teaching activities at facilities that are not engaged in the development of engines or engine test services for commercial purposes.

(4) Any portion of the affected source operated to test or evaluate fuels (such as knock engines), transmissions, or electronics.
