
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Engine Test Cells/Stands
###### General Compliane Requirements
####### ยง 63.9307 What are my continuous emissions monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## Continued operation.

(2)You must operate your CEMS according to paragraphs (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct all monitoring in continuous operation at all times that the engine test cell/stand is operating, except for, as applicable, monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, and required quality assurance or control activities (including, as applicable, calibration drift checks and required zero and high-level adjustments). Quality assurance or control activities must be performed according to procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(ii) Data recorded during monitoring malfunctions, associated repairs, out-of-control periods, and required quality assurance or control activities must not be used for purposes of calculating data averages. You must use all of the data collected from all other periods in assessing compliance. A monitoring malfunction is any sudden, infrequent, not reasonably preventable failure of the monitoring equipment to provide valid data. Monitoring failures that are caused in part by poor maintenance or careless operation are not malfunctions. Any period for which the monitoring system is out-of-control and data are not available for required calculations constitutes a deviation from the monitoring requirements.
