
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Engine Test Cells/Stands
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9340 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitation in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you according to methods specified in Table 5 to this subpart.

(b) You must report each instance in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section. These instances are deviations from the emission limitation in this subpart and must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.9350.

(1) You must report each instance in which you did not meet the emission limitation that applies to you.

(2) You must report each instance in which you did not meet the requirements in Table 7 to this subpart that apply to you.

(c) Startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions:

(1) For affected sources prior to December 1, 2020, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of SSM of control devices and associated monitoring equipment are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1).

(2) The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period you identify as an SSM of control devices and associated monitoring equipment are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e).
