
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Engine Test Cells/Stands
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9350 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) If you own or operate a new or reconstructed affected source that must meet the emission limitation, you must submit a semiannual compliance report according to Table 6 to this subpart by the applicable dates specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule.

(1) The first semiannual compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.9295 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date specified in § 63.9295.

(2) The first semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.9295.

(3) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent semiannual compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each new or reconstructed engine test cell/stand that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71, and if the permitting authority has established the date for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(6) For affected sources prior to December 1, 2020, if you had an SSM of a control device or associated monitoring equipment during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your SSMP, the compliance report must include the information in paragraphs § 63.10(d)(5)(i).

(7) Beginning on December 1, 2020, submit all semiannual compliance reports following the procedure specified in paragraph (g) of this section.

(b) If there is no deviation from the applicable emission limitation and the CEMS or CPMS was not out-of-control, according to § 63.8(c)(7), the semiannual compliance report must contain the information described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) A statement that no deviation from the emission limit occurred during the reporting period and that no CEMS or CPMS was out-of-control, according to § 63.8(c)(7).

(c) For each deviation from an emission limit, the semiannual compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and the information included in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section, except that on and after December 1, 2020 the semiannual compliance report must also include the information included in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(1) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(2) The total operating time of each new or reconstructed engine test cell/stand during the reporting period.

(3) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period (recorded in 4-hour periods), and the total duration as a percent of the total operating time during that reporting period.

(4) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(5) An estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(d) For each CEMS or CPMS deviation, the semiannual compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section and the information included in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section, except that on and after December 1, 2020, the semiannual compliance report must also include the information included in paragraph (d)(11) of this section.

(1) The date and time that each CEMS or CPMS was inoperative except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(2) The date and time that each CEMS or CPMS was out-of-control including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(3) A summary of the total duration of CEMS or CPMS downtime during the reporting period (reported in 4-hour periods), and the total duration of CEMS or CPMS downtime as a percent of the total engine test cell/stand operating time during that reporting period.

(4) A breakdown of the total duration of CEMS or CPMS downtime during the reporting period into periods that are due to monitoring equipment malfunctions, nonmonitoring equipment malfunctions, quality assurance/quality control calibrations, other known causes and other unknown causes.

(5) The monitoring equipment manufacturer(s) and model number(s) of each monitor.

(6) The date of the latest CEMS or CPMS certification or audit.

(7) The date and time period of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart; date and time period of any bypass of the add-on control device; and whether each deviation occurred during a period of SSM or during another period.

(8) A summary of the total duration of each deviation from an operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart, each bypass of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period, and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that semiannual reporting period.

(9) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations from the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart and bypasses of the add-on control device during the semiannual reporting period by identifying deviations due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(10) A description of any changes in CEMS, CPMS, or controls since the last reporting period.

(11) The total operating time of each new or reconstructed engine test cell/stand during the reporting period.

(e) Prior to December 1, 2020, if you had an SSM of a control device or associated monitoring equipment during the semiannual reporting period that was not consistent with your SSMP, you must submit an immediate SSM report according to the requirements in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii).

(f) Within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or performance evaluation required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.
