
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Engine Test Cells/Stands
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9345 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.8(e), 63.8(f)(4) and (6), and 63.9(b), (g)(1), (g)(2) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(b) If you own or operate a new or reconstructed test cell/stand used for testing internal combustion engines, you are required to submit an Initial Notification as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you start up your new or reconstructed affected source before the effective date of this subpart, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after May 27, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(2) As specified in § 63.9(b), if you start up your new or reconstructed affected source on or after the effective date of this subpart, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.

(3) If you are required to submit an Initial Notification but are otherwise not affected by the requirements of this subpart, in accordance with § 63.9290(c), your notification should include the information in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (v) and a statement that your new or reconstructed engine test cell/stand has no additional requirements and explain the basis of the exclusion (for example, that the test cell/stand is used exclusively for testing internal combustion engines with rated power of less than 25 hp (19 kW)).

(c) If you are required to comply with the emission limitations in Table 1 to this subpart, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). For each initial compliance demonstration with the emission limitation, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status before the close of business on the 30th calendar day following the completion of the initial compliance demonstration.

(d) You must submit a notification of initial performance evaluation of your CEMS or performance testing of your control device at least 60 calendar days before the performance testing/evaluation is scheduled to begin as required in § 63.8(e)(2).
