
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Emissions From Oil and Natural Gas Sources on the Indian Country Lands Within the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in Utah
####### § 49.4182 Monitoring and testing requirements.
######## Exemptions.

(b)Paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section do not apply to any storage vessels, glycol dehydration units, pneumatic pumps, covers, or closed-vent systems, or to VOC emission control devices subject to and monitored in accordance with the monitoring requirements for such equipment and activities in 40 CFR part 60, subparts OOOO or OOOOa, or 40 CFR part 63, subpart HH.

(c) Each owner or operator must inspect each cover and closed-vent system as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2).

(1) Conduct olfactory, visual, and auditory inspections at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each inspection, of each cover and closed-vent system, including each bypass device, and each storage vessel thief hatch, seal, and pressure relief valve, to ensure proper condition and functioning of the equipment to identify defects that can result in air emissions according to the procedures. Examples of defects are visible cracks, holes, or gaps in the cover or piping, or between the cover and the separator wall; loose connections; liquid leaks; and broken, cracked, or otherwise damaged seals or gaskets on closure devices, caps, or other closure devices. If the storage vessel is partially or entirely buried, you must inspect only those portions of the cover that extend to or above the ground surface, and those connections that are on such portions of the cover (e.g., fill ports, access hatches, gauge wells) and can be opened to the atmosphere. The inspector should note whether there are signs of oil releases around storage vessel thief hatches, seals and pressure relief valves (e.g., staining on the storage vessel), which may indicate over-pressure events that occurred when the storage vessel was being filled. Any defects identified must be corrected or repaired within 30 days of identification.

(2) Conduct optical gas imaging inspections of each cover and closed vent system for any visible emissions at the same frequency as the frequency for the collection of fugitive emissions components located at the oil and natural gas source, as specified in § 49.4178(d)(1).

(d) Each owner or operator must monitor the operation of each enclosed combustor and flare to confirm proper operation and demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 49.4177(c), as follows and as applicable:

(1) Demonstrate compliance with the requirement of § 49.4177(c)(5)(i)(B) that each enclosed combustor must be demonstrated by the owner or operator to meet the VOC control efficiency requirements of §§ 49.4173 through 49.4176, by conducting performance tests using EPA-approved performance test methods and procedures specified in 40 CFR 60.5413 and according to the schedule specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct an initial performance test within 180 days after the effective date of this rule for existing enclosed combustors, and within 180 days after initial startup for new enclosed combustors. You must submit the performance test results as specified in § 49.4184(a) within 60 days of completing the test.

(ii) You must conduct periodic performance tests for all enclosed combustors required to conduct initial performance tests. You must conduct the first periodic performance test no later than 60 months after the initial performance test required in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section. You must conduct subsequent periodic performance tests at intervals no longer than 60 months following the previous periodic performance test or whenever you desire to establish a new operating limit. You must submit the periodic performance test results as specified in § 49.4184(a) within 60 days of completing each test.

(iii) The owner or operator of an enclosed combustor whose model is tested under, and meets the criteria of, § 49.4177(c)(5)(i)(A) is not required to conduct performance testing.

(2) Conduct inspections of each enclosed combustor or flare at least once every calendar month, separated by at least 15 days between each inspection, to confirm proper operation of the device, as follows:

(i) Demonstrate that each enclosed combustor or flare is operated with no visible smoke emissions, except for periods not to exceed a total of 1 minute during any 15-minute period, by conducting a visible emissions test using section 11 of EPA Method 22 of appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60. The observation period must be of sufficient length to meet the requirement for determining compliance with this visible emissions standard. Devices failing the visible emissions test must follow manufacturer's repair instructions, if available, or best combustion engineering practice as outlined in the unit inspection and maintenance plan, to return the unit to compliant operation. All inspection, repair, and maintenance activities for each unit must be recorded in a maintenance and repair log and must be available for inspection. Following return to operation from maintenance or repair activity, each device must pass a Method 22 of Appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60 visual observation as described in this paragraph.

(ii) Conduct visual inspections to confirm that the pilot is lit when vapors are being routed to the device and that the continuous burning pilot or electronically controlled automatic ignition device and the continuous parameter monitoring system is operating properly;

(iii) Conduct olfactory, visual and auditory inspections of all other equipment associated with the combustion device to ensure system integrity; and

(iv) Respond to any indication of pilot flame failure and ensure that the pilot flame is relit as soon as practically and safely possible after discovery.

(e) Where sufficient to meet the monitoring requirements in this section, the owner or operator may use a SCADA system to monitor and record the required data.
