
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Engine Test Cells/Stands
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9355 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records as described in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section. After June 3, 2020, you must also keep the records as described in paragraphs (a)(6) through (8) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Records of performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(3) Records of the occurrence and duration of each malfunction of the air pollution control equipment, if applicable, as required in § 63.9355.

(4) Records of all maintenance on the air pollution control equipment, if applicable, as required in § 63.10(b)(iii).

(5) The calculation of the mass of organic HAP emission reduction by emission capture systems and add-on control devices.

(6) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, the cause, and duration of each failure.

(7) For each failure to meet an applicable standard, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(8) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.9305, and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(b) For each CPMS, you must keep the records as described in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) For each deviation, a record of whether the deviation occurred during a period of SSM of the control device and associated monitoring equipment.

(2) For affected sources prior to December 1, 2020, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to SSM.

(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you.

(4) For each capture system that is a PTE, the data and documentation you used to support a determination that the capture system meets the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for a PTE and has a capture efficiency of 100 percent, as specified in § 63.9322(a).

(5) For each capture system that is not a PTE, the data and documentation you used to determine capture efficiency according to the requirements specified in §§ 63.9321 and 63.9322(b) through (e), including the records specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section that apply to you.

(i) Records for a gas-to-gas protocol using a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure. Records of the mass of TVH emissions captured by the emission capture system as measured by Method 204B or C of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 at the inlet to the add-on control device, including a copy of the test report. Records of the mass of TVH emissions not captured by the capture system that exited the temporary total enclosure or building enclosure during each capture efficiency test run as measured by Method 204D or E of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51, including a copy of the test report. Records documenting that the enclosure used for the capture efficiency test met the criteria in Method 204 of appendix M to 40 CFR part 51 for either a temporary total enclosure or a building enclosure.

(ii) Records for an alternative protocol. Records needed to document a capture efficiency determination using an alternative method or protocol as specified in § 63.9322(e), if applicable.

(6) The records specified in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section for each add-on control device organic HAP destruction or removal efficiency determination as specified in § 63.9323.

(i) Records of each add-on control device performance test conducted according to §§ 63.9321, 63.9322, and 63.9323.

(ii) Records of the engine testing conditions during the add-on control device performance test showing that the performance test was conducted under representative operating conditions.

(7) Records of the data and calculations you used to establish the emission capture and add-on control device operating limits as specified in § 63.9324 and to document compliance with the operating limits as specified in Table 2 to this subpart.

(c) For each CEMS, you must keep the records as described in paragraph (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Records described in § 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).
