
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9530 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitation that applies to me?

(a) If you use a solvent recovery system and/or solvent substitution, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations for solvent mixers in § 63.9500(a) and (b) according to the provisions in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, before August 7, 2019, except for during malfunctions of your weight measurement device and associated repairs, you must collect and record the information required in § 63.9520(a)(1) through (8) at all times that the affected source is operating and record all information needed to document conformance with these requirements. On and after August 7, 2019 for such sources, and after February 8, 2019 for new or reconstructed sources that commenced construction after May 3, 2018, you must collect and record the information required in § 63.9520(a)(1) through (8) at all times that the affected source is operating and record all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(2) For new, reconstructed, or existing large solvent mixers, maintain the 7-day block average percent of HAP solvent discharged to the atmosphere at or below 30 percent of that which would otherwise be emitted in the absence of solvent recovery and/or solvent substitution.

(3) For new, reconstructed, or existing small solvent mixers, maintain the 7-day block average percent of HAP solvent discharged to the atmosphere at or below 15 percent of that which would otherwise be emitted in the absence of solvent recovery and/or solvent substitution.

(b) If you use a control technique other than a solvent recovery system and/or solvent substitution, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations for solvent mixers in § 63.9500(a) and (b) according to the provisions in § 63.9570.

(c) You must report each instance in which you did not meet the emission limitations for solvent mixers in § 63.9500(a) and (b). This includes periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.9540.

(d) [Reserved]

(e) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, before August 7, 2019, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1). The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On and after August 7, 2019 for such sources, and after February 8, 2019 for new or reconstructed sources which commence construction or reconstruction after May 3, 2018, all deviations are considered violations.
