
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.9495 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing solvent mixer, you must comply with each of the requirements for existing sources no later than October 18, 2005, except as otherwise specified at this section and §§ 63.9505, 63.9530, 63.9540, 63.9545, and Table 1 to this subpart.

(b) If you have a new or reconstructed solvent mixer for which construction or reconstruction commenced after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, you must comply with the requirements for new and reconstructed sources upon initial startup, except as otherwise specified at this section and §§ 63.9505, 63.9530, 63.9540, 63.9545, and Table 1 to this subpart.

(c) If your friction materials manufacturing facility is an area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a (or part of a) major source of HAP emissions, then paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section apply.

(1) For any portion of the area source that becomes a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with the requirements for new and reconstructed sources upon startup or no later than October 18, 2002, whichever is later.

(2) For any portion of the area source that becomes an existing affected source, you must comply with the requirements for existing sources no later than 1 year after the area source becomes a major source or no later than October 18, 2005, whichever is later.

(d) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in § 63.9535. Several of the notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.

(e) Solvent mixers constructed or reconstructed after May 3, 2018, must be in compliance with this subpart at startup or by February 8, 2019, whichever is later.
