
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities
###### Initial Compliance Demonstration Requirements
####### § 63.9520 What procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance?

(a) If you use a solvent recovery system, you must use the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limitations in § 63.9500(a) and (b).

(1) Record the date and time of each mix batch.

(2) Record the identity of each mix batch using a unique batch ID, as defined in § 63.9565.

(3) Measure and record the weight of HAP solvent loaded into the solvent mixer for each mix batch.

(4) Measure and record the weight of HAP solvent recovered for each mix batch.

(5) If you use a solvent recovery system, you must determine the percent of HAP solvent discharged to the atmosphere for each mix batch according to Equation 1 of this section as follows:

(6) If you use solvent substitution for a mix batch, you must record the use of a non-HAP material as a substitute for a HAP solvent for that mix batch and assign a value of 0 percent to the percent of HAP solvent discharged to the atmosphere for that mix batch (Pb).

(7) Determine the 7-day block average percent of HAP solvent discharged to the atmosphere according to Equation 2 of this section as follows:

(8) Have valid data for at least 90 percent of the mix batches over the 7-day averaging period.

(b) If you use a control technique other than a solvent recovery system and/or solvent substitution, you may apply to EPA for approval to use an alternative method of demonstrating compliance with the emission limitations for solvent mixers in § 63.9500(a) and (b), as provided in § 63.9570.
