
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9540 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule, you must submit each semiannual compliance report according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.9495 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.9495.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after your first compliance report is due.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71 of this chapter, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter, you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(b) Each compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, and if applicable, paragraphs (b)(4) through (6) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the report are true, accurate, and complete.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources for which construction or reconstruction commenced after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, before August 7, 2019, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period and you took actions consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the compliance report must include the information in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). A startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is not required for such sources on and after August 7, 2019.

(5) If there were no deviations from the emission limitations for solvent mixers in § 63.9500(a) and (b), a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period.

(6) If there were no periods during which a monitoring system was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which a monitoring system was out-of-control during the reporting period.

(c) For each deviation from an emission limitation occurring at an affected source, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) and (c)(1) and (2) of this section. This includes periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

(1) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(2) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, before August 7, 2019, information on the number, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, and the corrective action taken. On and after August 7, 2019 for such sources, and after February 8, 2019 for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after May 3, 2018, information on the number of deviations to meet an emission limitation. For each instance, include the date, time, duration, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), as applicable, a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions, and the corrective action taken.

(d) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, before August 7, 2019, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the semiannual reporting period that was not consistent with your startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, you must submit an immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report according to the requirements in § 63.10(d)(5)(ii). An immediate startup, shutdown, and malfunction report is not required for such sources on and after August 7, 2019.

(e) If you have obtained a title V operating permit for an affected source pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 71 of this chapter, you must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter. If you submit a compliance report for an affected source along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) of this chapter, and the compliance report includes all the required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation in this subpart, then submission of the compliance report satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submission of a compliance report does not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements to your permitting authority.
