
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9545 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section that apply to you.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any initial notification or notification of compliance status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) For existing sources and for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after October 18, 2002, but before May 4, 2018, before August 7, 2019, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, or malfunction. For such sources, it is not required to keep records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related to startup, shutdown, or malfunction on and after August 7, 2019.

(3) After February 8, 2019 for new or reconstructed sources which commenced construction or reconstruction after May 3, 2018, and on and after August 7, 2019 for all other affected sources, in the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard, record the number of deviations. For each deviation, record the date, time and duration of each deviation.

(i) For each deviation, record and retain cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable), a list of the affected source or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(ii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.9505, and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(b) You must keep the records required in § 63.9525 to show proper operation and maintenance of the weight measurement device.

(c) You must keep the records required in § 63.9530 to show continuous compliance with the emission limitations for solvent mixers in § 63.9500(a) and (b).
