
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart QQQQQ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Friction Materials Manufacturing Facilities
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### ยง 63.9570 How do I apply for alternative compliance requirements?

(a) If you use a control technique other than a solvent recovery system and/or solvent substitution, you may request approval to use an alternative method of demonstrating compliance with the emission limitations in ยง 63.9500(a) and (b) according to the procedures in this section.

(b) You can request approval to use an alternative method of demonstrating compliance in the initial notification for existing sources, the notification of construction or reconstruction for new sources, or at any time.

(c) You must submit a description of the proposed testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting that will be used and the proposed basis for demonstrating compliance.

(1) If you have not previously performed testing, you must submit a proposed test plan. If you are seeking permission to use an alternative method of compliance based on previously performed testing, you must submit the results of testing, a description of the procedures followed in testing, and a description of pertinent conditions during testing.

(2) You must submit a monitoring plan that includes a description of the control technique, test results verifying the performance of the control technique, the appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored, and the frequency of measuring and recording to establish continuous compliance with the emission limitations in ยง 63.9500(a) and (b). You must also include the proposed performance specifications and quality assurance procedures for the monitors. The monitoring plan is subject to the Administrator's approval. You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the monitors in accordance with the monitoring plan approved by the Administrator.

(d) Use of the alternative method of demonstrating compliance must not begin until approval is granted by the Administrator.
