
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.9590 What emission limitations must I meet?

(a) You must meet each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) You must meet each operating limit for control devices in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section that applies to you.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for each wet scrubber applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average pressure drop and daily average scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.

(2) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average scrubber water flow rate and either the daily average fan amperage (a surrogate for fan speed as revolutions per minute) or the daily average pressure drop at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test. After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain the daily average scrubber water flow rate and the daily average fan amperage (a surrogate for fan speed as revolutions per minute) at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.

(3) For each dry electrostatic precipitator applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the operating limits in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Maintain the 6-minute average opacity of emissions exiting the control device stack at or below the level established during the initial performance test.

(ii) Maintain the daily average secondary voltage and daily average secondary current for each field at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.

(4) For each wet electrostatic precipitator applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the operating limits in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Maintain the daily average secondary voltage for each field at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.

(ii) Maintain the daily average stack outlet temperature at or below the maximum levels established during the initial performance test.

(iii) Maintain the daily average water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial performance test.

(5) If you use any air pollution control device other than a baghouse, wet scrubber, dynamic scrubber, dry electrostatic precipitator, or wet electrostatic precipitator, you must submit a site-specific monitoring plan in accordance with ยง 63.9631(f).

(c) You may petition the Administrator for approval of alternatives to the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section as allowed under ยง 63.8(f) and as defined in ยง 63.90.
