
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart K - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region VIII
###### Federal Implementation Plan for Managing Emissions From Oil and Natural Gas Sources on the Indian Country Lands Within the Uintah and Ouray Indian Reservation in Utah
####### § 49.4184 Notification and reporting requirements.
######## r8airreportenforcement@epa.gov,https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri;,https://cdx.epa.gov/.,r8airreportenforcement@epa.gov

(a) Unless otherwise specified, each owner or operator must submit any documents required under this rule to: U.S. EPA Region 8, Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Division, Air and Toxics Enforcement Branch, 8ENF-AT, 1595 Wynkoop St., Denver, CO 80202, or documents may be submitted electronically toand/or to the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI). Information on CEDRI is available atCEDRI can be accessed directly through the EPA's Central Data Exchange (CDX) atThe EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as confidential business information (CBI). Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, you must submit a complete file, including the information claimed to be CBI, on a compact disc, flash drive, or other commonly used electronic storage media to the EPA, and the electronic media must be clearly marked as CBI and mailed to U.S. EPA/OAQPS/CORE CBI Office, Attention: Group Leader, Measurement Policy Group, MD C404-02, 4930 Old Page Rd., Durham, NC 27703. The same information, with the CBI omitted, must be submitted to the EPA viaor the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph. All claims of CBI must be asserted at the time of submission. Furthermore, under CAA section 114(c), emissions data is not entitled to confidential treatment, and the EPA is required to make emissions data available to the public. Thus, emissions data will not be protected as CBI and will be made publicly available.

(b) Each owner and operator of an affected oil and natural gas source as identified in § 49.4169(b) must submit an annual report containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. The annual report must cover affected operations for the previous calendar year. The initial annual report is due April 1st of the calendar year following February 6, 2023 and must cover all affected operations for the previous calendar year on and after February 6, 2023. Subsequent annual reports are due on the same date each year as the date the initial annual report was submitted. If you own or operate more than one oil and natural gas source, you may submit one report for multiple oil and natural gas sources, provided the report contains all of the information required as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section. Annual reports may coincide with title V, NSPS OOOO or OOOOa, or NESHAP HH reports as long as all the required elements of the annual report are included. An alternative schedule on which the annual report must be submitted will be allowed as long as the schedule does not extend the reporting period. The annual report must include:

(1) The owner or operator name, and the name and location (decimal degree latitude and longitude location indicating the datum used in parentheses) of each oil and natural gas source being included in the annual report.

(2) The beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(3) For each oil and natural gas source, a summary of the required records specified in § 49.4183 that are identified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section as they relate to the source's compliance with the requirements of §§ 49.4173 through 49.4183.

(i) For each enclosed combustor or flare at an oil and natural gas source required under §§ 49.4173 through 49.4177:

(A) Records of any instances in which the pilot flame is not present or the monitoring equipment is not functioning, the date and times of the occurrence, the corrective actions taken, and any preventative measures adopted to prevent recurrence of the occurrence; and

(B) Records of any time periods in which visible smoke emissions are observed emanating from the enclosed combustor or flare.

(ii) For each closed-vent system:

(A) Records of any instances in which any closed-vent system or control device was bypassed or down, the reason for each incident, its duration, the corrective actions taken, and any preventative measures adopted to avoid such bypasses or downtimes; and

(B) Records of any instances of defects identified during the monthly inspection required in § 49.4182(c), including:
