
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Emission Limitations and Work Practice Standards
####### ยง 63.9591 What work practice standards must I meet?

(a) You must prepare, and at all times operate according to, a fugitive dust emissions control plan that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place to control fugitive dust emissions from the locations listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Stockpiles (includes, but is not limited to, stockpiles of uncrushed ore, crushed ore, or finished pellets);

(2) Material transfer points;

(3) Plant roadways;

(4) Tailings basin;

(5) Pellet loading areas; and

(6) Yard areas.

(b) A copy of your fugitive dust emissions control plan must be submitted for approval to the Administrator on or before the applicable compliance date for the affected source as specified in ยง 63.9583. The requirement for the plant to operate according to the fugitive dust emissions control plan must be incorporated by reference in the operating permit for the plant that is issued by the designated permitting authority under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.

(c) You can use an existing fugitive dust emissions control plan provided it meets the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The plan satisfies the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) The plan describes the current measures to control fugitive dust emission sources.

(3) The plan has been approved as part of a State implementation plan or title V permit.

(d) You must maintain a current copy of the fugitive dust emissions control plan onsite, and it must be available for inspection upon request. You must keep the plan for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart.
