
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9620 On which units and by what date must I conduct performance tests or other initial compliance demonstrations?

(a) For each ore crushing and handling affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart by conducting an initial performance test for particulate matter as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, an initial performance test must be performed on all stacks associated with ore crushing and handling.

(2) Initial performance tests must be completed no later than 180 calendar days after the compliance date specified in § 63.9583. Performance tests conducted between October 30, 2003 and no later than 180 days after the corresponding compliance date can be used for initial compliance demonstration, provided the tests meet the initial performance testing requirements of this subpart.

(b) For each indurating furnace affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart by conducting an initial performance test for particulate matter as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) An initial performance test must be performed on all stacks associated with each indurating furnace.

(2) Initial performance tests must be completed no later than 180 calendar days after the compliance date specified in § 63.9583. Performance tests conducted between October 30, 2003 and no later than 180 days after the corresponding compliance date can be used for initial compliance demonstration, provided the tests meet the initial performance testing requirements of this subpart. For indurating furnaces with multiple stacks, the performance tests for all stacks must be completed within a reasonable period of time, such that the indurating furnace operating characteristics remain representative for the duration of the stack tests.

(c) For each finished pellet handling affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart by conducting an initial performance test for particulate matter as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, an initial performance test must be performed on all stacks associated with finished pellet handling.

(2) Initial performance tests must be completed no later than 180 calendar days after the compliance date specified in § 63.9583. Performance tests conducted between October 30, 2003 and no later than 180 days after the corresponding compliance date can be used for initial compliance demonstration, provided the tests meet the initial compliance testing requirements of this subpart.

(d) For each ore dryer affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart by conducting an initial performance test for particulate matter as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) An initial performance test must be performed on all stacks associated with each ore dryer.

(2) Initial performance tests must be completed no later than 180 calendar days after the compliance date specified in § 63.9583. Performance tests conducted between October 30, 2003 and no later than 180 days after the corresponding compliance date can be used for initial compliance demonstration, provided the tests meet the initial compliance testing requirements of this subpart. For ore dryers with multiple stacks, the performance tests for all stacks must be completed within a reasonable period of time, such that the ore dryer operating characteristics remain representative for the duration of the stack tests.

(e) For ore crushing and handling affected sources and finished pellet handling affected sources, in lieu of conducting initial performance tests for particulate matter on all stacks, you may elect to group a maximum of six similar emission units together and conduct an initial compliance test on one representative emission unit within each group of similar emission units. The determination of whether emission units are similar must meet the criteria in paragraph (f) of this section. If you decide to test representative emission units, you must prepare and submit a testing plan as described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(f) If you elect to test representative emission units as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the units that are grouped together as similar units must meet the criteria in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) All emission units within a group must be of the same process type (e.g., primary crushers, secondary crushers, tertiary crushers, fine crushers, ore conveyors, ore bins, ore screens, grate feed, pellet loadout, hearth layer, cooling stacks, pellet conveyor, and pellet screens). You cannot group emission units from different process types together for the purposes of this section.

(2) All emission units within a group must also have the same type of air pollution control device (e.g., wet scrubbers, dynamic wet scrubbers, rotoclones, multiclones, wet and dry electrostatic precipitators, and baghouses). You cannot group emission units with different air pollution control device types together for the purposes of this section.

(3) The site-specific operating limits established for the emission unit selected as representative of a group of similar emission units will be used as the operating limit for each emission unit within the group. The operating limit established for the representative unit must be met by each emission unit within the group.

(g) If you plan to conduct initial performance tests on representative emission units within an ore crushing and handling affected source or a finished pellet handling affected source, you must submit a testing plan for initial performance tests. This testing plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority no later than 90 days prior to the first scheduled initial performance test. The testing plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A list of all emission units. This list must clearly identify all emission units that have been grouped together as similar emission units. Within each group of emission units, you must identify the emission unit that will be the representative unit for that group and subject to initial performance testing.

(2) A list of the process type and type of air pollution control device on each emission unit.

(3) A schedule indicating when you will conduct an initial performance test for particulate matter for each representative emission unit.

(h) For each work practice standard and operation and maintenance requirement that applies to you where initial compliance is not demonstrated using a performance test, you must demonstrate initial compliance within 30 calendar days after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.9583.

(i) If you commenced construction or reconstruction of an affected source between December 18, 2002 and October 30, 2003 , you must demonstrate initial compliance with either the proposed emission limit or the promulgated emission limit no later than 180 calendar days after October 30, 2003 or no later than 180 calendar days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).

(j) If you commenced construction or reconstruction of an affected source between December 18, 2002 and October 30, 2003, and you chose to comply with the proposed emission limit when demonstrating initial compliance, you must conduct a second performance test to demonstrate compliance with the promulgated emission limit by 3 years and 180 calendar days after October 30, 2003, or after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).
