
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9621 What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter?

(a) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, you must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source according to the requirements in § 63.7(e)(1) and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, you must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source under normal operating conditions of the affected source. The owner or operator may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. The owner or operator must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. You must also conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source according to the requirements in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(b) For each ore crushing and handling affected source and each finished pellet handling affected source, you must determine compliance with the applicable emission limit for particulate matter in Table 1 to this subpart by following the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Except as provided in § 63.9620(e), determine the concentration of particulate matter in the stack gas for each emission unit according to the test methods listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) EPA Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter or EPA Method 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter, as applicable, to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) EPA Method 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to the manual procedures (but not instrumental procedures) in EPA Method 3B.

(iv) EPA Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) EPA Method 5 or 5D in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter or EPA Method 17 in appendix A-6 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the concentration of particulate matter.

(2) Each EPA Method 5, 5D, or 17 performance test must consist of three separate runs. Each run must be conducted for a minimum of 1 hour. If any measurement result is reported as below the method detection limit, use the method detection limit for that value when calculating the average particulate matter concentration. The average particulate matter concentration from the three runs will be used to determine compliance, as shown in Equation 1 of this section.

(3) For each ore crushing and handling affected source and each finished pellet handling affected source, you must determine the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter emissions from all emission units in each affected source following the procedure in paragraph (b)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If an initial performance test is conducted on all emission units within an affected source, calculate the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter emissions from the affected source using Equation 2 of this section.

(ii) If you are grouping similar emission units together in accordance with § 63.9620(e), you must follow the procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Assign the average particulate matter concentration measured from the representative unit, as determined from Equation 1 of this section, to each emission unit within the corresponding group of similar units.

(B) Establish the maximum operating volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from each emission unit within each group of similar units.

(C) Using the data from paragraphs (b)(3)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section, calculate the flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter emissions from the affected source using Equation 3 of this section.

(c) For each ore dryer affected source and each indurating furnace affected source, you must determine compliance with the applicable emission limit for particulate matter in Table 1 to this subpart by following the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of particulate matter for each stack according to the test methods listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) EPA Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter or EPA Method 2G in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter, as applicable, to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) EPA Method 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. The voluntary consensus standard ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) may be used as an alternative to the manual procedures (but not instrumental procedures) in EPA Method 3B.

(iv) EPA Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) EPA Method 5 or 5D in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to determine the concentration of particulate matter.

(2) Each EPA Method 5 or 5D performance test must consist of three separate runs. Each run must be conducted for a minimum of 1 hour. If any measurement result is reported as below the method detection limit, use the method detection limit for that value when calculating the average particulate matter concentration. The average particulate matter concentration from the three runs will be used to determine compliance, as shown in Equation 1 of this section.
