
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9630 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests?

(a) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate continued compliance with the ore crushing and handling emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval.

(b) You must conduct subsequent performance tests on all stacks associated with indurating furnaces to demonstrate continued compliance with the indurating furnace emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit, but no less frequent than twice per 5-year permit term. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval. For indurating furnaces with multiple stacks, the performance tests for all stacks associated with that indurating furnace must be conducted within a reasonable period of time, such that the indurating furnace operating characteristics remain representative for the duration of the stack tests.

(c) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate continued compliance with the finished pellet handling emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval.

(d) You must conduct subsequent performance tests on all stacks associated with ore dryers to demonstrate continued compliance with the ore dryer emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart according to the schedule developed by your permitting authority and shown in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must submit a testing plan and schedule, containing the information specified in paragraph (e) of this section, to the permitting authority for approval. For ore dryers with multiple stacks, the performance tests for all stacks associated with an ore dryer must be conducted within a reasonable period of time, such that the ore dryer operating characteristics remain representative for the duration of the stack tests.

(e) If your plant does not have a title V permit, you must submit a testing plan for subsequent performance tests as required in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. This testing plan must be submitted to the Administrator on or before the compliance date that is specified in ยง 63.9583. The testing plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. You must maintain a current copy of the testing plan onsite, and it must be available for inspection upon request. You must keep the plan for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(1) A list of all emission units.

(2) A schedule indicating when you will conduct subsequent performance tests for particulate matter for each of the emission units.
