
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9631 What are my monitoring requirements?

(a) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each baghouse applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system to monitor the relative change in particulate matter loadings according to the requirements in § 63.9632(a), and conduct inspections at their specified frequencies according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each baghouse applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system to monitor the relative change in particulate matter loadings according to the requirements in § 63.9632(a), and conduct inspections at their specified frequencies according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) and (8) of this section. For each baghouse applied to meet any particulate matter emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart that is not required by § 63.9632(a) to be equipped with a bag leak detection system, you must conduct inspections at their specified frequencies according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Monitor the pressure drop across each baghouse cell each day to ensure pressure drop is within the normal operating range.

(2) Confirm that dust is being removed from hoppers through weekly visual inspections or other means of ensuring the proper functioning of removal mechanisms.

(3) Check the compressed air supply of pulse-jet baghouses each day.

(4) Monitor cleaning cycles to ensure proper operation using an appropriate methodology.

(5) Check bag cleaning mechanisms for proper functioning through monthly visual inspections or equivalent means.

(6) Make monthly visual checks of bag tension on reverse air and shaker-type baghouses to ensure that bags are not kinked (kneed or bent) or lying on their sides. You do not have to make this check for shaker-type baghouses that have self-tensioning (spring-loaded) devices.

(7) Confirm the physical integrity of the baghouse through quarterly visual inspections of the baghouse interior for air leaks.

(8) Inspect fans for wear, material buildup, and corrosion through quarterly visual inspections, vibration detectors, or equivalent means.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, for each wet scrubber subject to the operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.9590(b)(1), you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS according to the requirements in § 63.9632(b) through (e) and monitor the daily average pressure drop and daily average scrubber water flow rate according to the requirements in § 63.9633.

(c) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber subject to the scrubber water flow rate and either the fan amperage or pressure drop operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(2), you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS according to the requirements in § 63.9632(b) through (e) and monitor the daily average scrubber water flow rate and either the daily average fan amperage or the daily average pressure drop according to the requirements in § 63.9633. After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber subject to the scrubber water flow rate and the fan amperage operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(2), you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS according to the requirements in § 63.9632(b) through (e) and monitor the daily average scrubber water flow rate and the daily average fan amperage according to the requirements in § 63.9633.

(d) For each dry electrostatic precipitator subject to the operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(3), you must follow the monitoring requirements in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If the operating limit you choose to monitor is the 6-minute average opacity of emissions in accordance with § 63.9590(b)(3)(i), you must install, operate, and maintain a COMS according to the requirements in § 63.9632(f) and monitor the 6-minute average opacity of emissions exiting each control device stack according to the requirements in § 63.9633.

(2) If the operating limit you choose to monitor is average secondary voltage and average secondary current for each dry electrostatic precipitator field in accordance with § 63.9590(b)(3)(ii), you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS according to the requirements in § 63.9632(b) through (e) and monitor the daily average secondary voltage and daily average secondary current according to the requirements in § 63.9633.

(e) For each wet electrostatic precipitator subject to the operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(4), you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS according to the requirements in § 63.9632(b) through (e) and monitor the daily average secondary voltage, daily average stack outlet temperature, and daily average water flow rate according to the requirements in § 63.9633.

(f) If you use any air pollution control device other than a baghouse, wet scrubber, dry electrostatic precipitator, or wet electrostatic precipitator, you must submit a site-specific monitoring plan that includes the information in paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section. The monitoring plan is subject to approval by the Administrator. You must maintain a current copy of the monitoring plan onsite, and it must be available for inspection upon request. You must keep the plan for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(1) A description of the device.

(2) Test results collected in accordance with § 63.9621 verifying the performance of the device for reducing emissions of particulate matter to the atmosphere to the levels required by this subpart.

(3) A copy of the operation and maintenance plan required in § 63.9600(b).

(4) Appropriate operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emission limitation(s).
