
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9634 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations that apply to me?

(a) For each affected source subject to an emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (f) of this section.

(b) For ore crushing and handling affected sources and finished pellet handling affected sources, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter for all ore crushing and handling emission units and for all finished pellet handling emission units must be maintained at or below the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart.

(2) You must conduct subsequent performance tests for emission units in the ore crushing and handling and finished pellet handling affected sources following the schedule in your title V permit. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must conduct subsequent performance tests according to a testing plan approved by the Administrator or delegated authority.

(3) For ore crushing and handling and finished pellet handling emission units not selected for initial performance testing and defined within a group of similar emission units in accordance with ยง 63.9620(e), the site-specific operating limits established for the emission unit selected as representative of a group of similar emission units will be used as the operating limit for each emission unit within the group. The operating limit established for the representative unit must be met by each emission unit within the group.

(c) For ore dryers and indurating furnaces, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by meeting the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The flow-weighted mean concentration of particulate matter for all stacks from the ore dryer or indurating furnace must be maintained at or below the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart.

(2) For ore dryers, you must conduct subsequent performance tests following the schedule in your title V permit. For indurating furnaces, you must conduct subsequent performance tests following the schedule in your title V permit, but no less frequent than twice per 5-year permit term. If a title V permit has not been issued, you must conduct subsequent performance tests according to a testing plan approved by the Administrator or delegated authority.

(d) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each baghouse applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each baghouse applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Maintaining records of the time you initiated corrective action in the event of a bag leak detection system alarm, the corrective action(s) taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.

(2) Inspecting and maintaining each baghouse according to the requirements in ยง 63.9631(a) and recording all information needed to document conformance with the requirements in ยง 63.9631(a). If you increase or decrease the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system beyond the limits specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, you must include a copy of the required written certification by a responsible official in the next semiannual compliance report.

(3) Each bag leak detection system must be operated and maintained such that the alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period. Calculate the alarm time as specified in paragraphs (d)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) If inspection of the fabric filter demonstrates that no corrective action is required, no alarm time is counted.
