
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9632 What are the installation, operation, and maintenance requirements for my monitoring equipment?

(a) On or before January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each negative pressure baghouse or positive pressure baghouse equipped with a stack, applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) and (a)(4) through (9) of this section. After January 25, 2021, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each negative pressure baghouse or positive pressure baghouse equipped with a stack, applied to meet any particulate emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) The system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting emissions of particulate matter at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.

(2) The system must provide output of relative changes in particulate matter loadings.

(3) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.

(4) The system must be equipped with an alarm that will sound when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over the alarm level set point established according to paragraph (a)(5) of this section. The alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.

(5) For each bag leak detection system, you must develop and submit to the Administrator for approval, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the items identified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section. The monitoring plan shall be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications and recommendations contained in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) guidance document, "Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance" (EPA-454/R-98-015) (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14). You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. The plan shall describe all of the items in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system.

(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system including how the alarm set-point will be established.

(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system including quality assurance procedures.

(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list.

(v) How the bag leak detection system output shall be recorded and stored.

(6) To make the initial adjustment of the system, establish the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device. Then, establish the alarm set points and the alarm delay time (if applicable).

(7) Following initial adjustment, do not adjust sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time, without approval from the Administrator except as provided for in paragraph (a)(7)(i) of this section. In no event may the sensitivity be increased more than 100 percent or decreased by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete baghouse inspection that demonstrates the baghouse is in good operating condition.

(i) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity or range of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(ii) [Reserved]

(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(9) The bag leak detector sensor must be installed downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.

(b) For each CPMS required in ยง 63.9631, you must develop and make available for inspection upon request by the permitting authority a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Installation of the CPMS sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected emission unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device).

(2) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction system.
