
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Taconite Iron Ore Processing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9634 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations that apply to me?
######## i.e.,

(ii) If corrective action is required, each alarm time (time that the alarm sounds) is counted as a minimum of 1 hour.

(iii) If it takes longer than 1 hour to initiate corrective action, each alarm time is counted as the actual amount of time taken to initiate corrective action.

(e) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, for each wet scrubber subject to the operating limits for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate in § 63.9590(b)(1), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Maintaining the daily average pressure drop and daily average scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(2) Operating and maintaining each wet scrubber CPMS according to § 63.9632(b) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(3) Collecting and reducing monitoring data for pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate according to § 63.9632(c) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(4) If the daily average pressure drop or daily average scrubber water flow rate is below the operating limits established for a corresponding emission unit or group of similar emission units, you must then follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (j) of this section.

(f) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber subject to the operating limits for scrubber water flow rate and either the fan amperage or pressure drop in § 63.9590(b)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section. After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, for each dynamic wet scrubber subject to the operating limits for scrubber water flow rate and the fan amperage in § 63.9590(b)(2), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements of paragraphs (f)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, maintaining the daily average scrubber water flow rate and either the daily average fan amperage or the daily average pressure drop at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test. After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, maintaining the daily average scrubber water flow rate and the daily average fan amperage at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(2) Operating and maintaining each dynamic wet scrubber CPMS according to § 63.9632(b) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(3) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, collecting and reducing monitoring data for scrubber water flow rate and either fan amperage or pressure drop according to § 63.9632(c) and recording all information needed to document conformance with the requirements in § 63.9632(c). After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, collecting and reducing monitoring data for scrubber water flow rate and fan amperage according to § 63.9632(c) and recording all information needed to document conformance with the requirements in § 63.9632(c).

(4) On or before January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, if the daily average scrubber water flow rate, daily average fan amperage, or daily average pressure drop is below the operating limits established for a corresponding emission unit or group of similar emission units, you must then follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (j) of this section. After January 28, 2022, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 25, 2019, and after July 28, 2020, or upon start-up, which ever date is later, for affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 25, 2019, if the daily average scrubber water flow rate or daily average fan amperage, is below the operating limits established for a corresponding emission unit or group of similar emission units, you must then follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (j) of this section.

(g) For each dry electrostatic precipitator subject to operating limits in § 63.9590(b)(3), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If the operating limit for your dry electrostatic precipitator is a 6-minute average opacity of emissions value, then you must follow the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Maintaining the 6-minute average opacity of emissions at or below the maximum level established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(ii) Operating and maintaining each COMS and reducing the COMS data according to § 63.9632(f).

(iii) If the 6-minute average opacity of emissions is above the operating limits established for a corresponding emission unit, you must then follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (j) of this section.

(2) If the operating limit for your dry electrostatic precipitator is the daily average secondary voltage and daily average secondary current for each field, then you must follow the requirements in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Maintaining the daily average secondary voltage or daily average secondary current for each field at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(ii) Operating and maintaining each dry electrostatic precipitator CPMS according to § 63.9632(b) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(iii) Collecting and reducing monitoring data for secondary voltage or secondary current for each field according to § 63.9632(c) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(iv) If the daily average secondary voltage or daily average secondary current for each field is below the operating limits established for a corresponding emission unit, you must then follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (j) of this section.

(h) For each wet electrostatic precipitator subject to the operating limits for secondary voltage, stack outlet temperature, and water flow rate in § 63.9590(b)(4), you must demonstrate continuous compliance by completing the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Maintaining the daily average secondary voltage and daily average scrubber water flow rate for each field at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test. Maintaining the daily average stack outlet temperature at or below the maximum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(2) Operating and maintaining each wet electrostatic precipitator CPMS according to § 63.9632(b) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(3) Collecting and reducing monitoring data for secondary voltage, stack outlet temperature, and water flow rate according to § 63.9632(c) and recording all information needed to document conformance with these requirements.

(4) If the daily average secondary voltage, stack outlet temperature, or water flow rate does not meet the operating limits established for a corresponding emission unit, you must then follow the corrective action procedures in paragraph (j) of this section.

(i) If you use an air pollution control device other than a wet scrubber, dynamic wet scrubber, dry electrostatic precipitator, wet electrostatic precipitator, or baghouse, you must submit a site-specific monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.9631(f). The site-specific monitoring plan must include the site-specific procedures for demonstrating initial and continuous compliance with the corresponding operating limits.

(j) If the daily average operating parameter value for an emission unit or group of similar emission units does not meet the corresponding established operating limit, you must then follow the procedures in paragraphs (j)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must initiate and complete initial corrective action within 10 calendar days and demonstrate that the initial corrective action was successful. During any period of corrective action, you must continue to monitor, and record all required operating parameters for equipment that remains in operation. After the initial corrective action, if the daily average operating parameter value for the emission unit or group of similar emission units meets the operating limit established for the corresponding unit or group, then the corrective action was successful and the emission unit or group of similar emission units is in compliance with the established operating limits.

(2) If the initial corrective action required in paragraph (j)(1) of this section was not successful, then you must complete additional corrective action within 10 calendar days and demonstrate that the subsequent corrective action was successful. During any period of corrective action, you must continue to monitor, and record all required operating parameters for equipment that remains in operation. If the daily average operating parameter value for the emission unit or group of similar emission units meets the operating limit established for the corresponding unit or group, then the corrective action was successful, and the emission unit or group of similar emission units is in compliance with the established operating limits.

(3) If the second attempt at corrective action required in paragraph (j)(2) of this section was not successful, then you must repeat the procedures of paragraph (j)(2) of this section until the corrective action is successful. If the third attempt at corrective action is unsuccessful, you must conduct another performance test in accordance with the procedures in § 63.9622(f) and report to the Administrator as a deviation the third unsuccessful attempt at corrective action.

(4) After the third unsuccessful attempt at corrective action, you must submit to the Administrator the written report required in paragraph (j)(3) of this section within 5 calendar days after the third unsuccessful attempt at corrective action. This report must notify the Administrator that a deviation has occurred and document the types of corrective measures taken to address the problem that resulted in the deviation of established operating parameters and the resulting operating limits.
