
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.9786 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If the initial startup of your affected source is before April 16, 2003, then you must comply with the emission limitations for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart no later than April 16, 2003, except as otherwise specified in §§ 63.9792, 63.9812(c) and (e), and 63.9814(b)(6) and Tables 1 through 11 to this subpart.

(2) If the initial startup of your affected source is after April 16, 2003, then you must comply with the emission limitations for new and reconstructed sources in this subpart upon initial startup of your affected source, except as otherwise specified in §§ 63.9792, 63.9812(c) and (e), and 63.9814(b)(6) and Tables 1 through 11 to this subpart.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the emission limitations for existing sources no later than April 17, 2006, except as otherwise specified in §§ 63.9792, 63.9812(c) and (e), and 63.9814(b)(6) and Tables 1 through 11 to this subpart.

(c) You must be in compliance with this subpart when you conduct a performance test on an affected source.

(d) If you have an existing area source that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP, you must be in compliance with this subpart according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Any portion of the existing facility that is a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) All other parts of the existing facility must be in compliance with this subpart by 3 years after the date the area source becomes a major source, except as otherwise specified in §§ 63.9792, 63.9812(c) and (e), and 63.9814(b)(6) and Tables 1 through 11 to this subpart.

(e) If you have a new area source (i.e., an area source for which construction or reconstruction was commenced after June 20, 2002) that increases its emissions or its potential to emit such that it becomes a major source of HAP, you must be in compliance with this subpart upon initial startup of your affected source as a major source.

(f) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.9812 according to the schedule in § 63.9812 and in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart.
