
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9792 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limitations (including operating limits and work practice standards) in this subpart at all times, except during periods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section before May 19, 2022. You must be in compliance with the emission limitations (including operating limits and work practice standards) in this subpart at all times, on or after May 19, 2022.

(1) Periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

(2) Periods of scheduled maintenance on a control device that is used on an affected continuous kiln, as specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, before May 19, 2022, you must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i). During the period between the compliance date specified for your affected source in § 63.9786 and the date upon which continuous monitoring systems have been installed and validated and any applicable operating limits have been established, you must maintain a log detailing the operation and maintenance of the process and emissions control equipment. On and after May 19, 2022, at all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator that may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the affected source.

(c) Before May 19, 2022, you must develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan (SSMP) according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3). On or after May 19, 2022, you are not required to develop a written SSMP according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(3).

(d) You must prepare and implement a written operation, maintenance, and monitoring (OM&M) plan according to the requirements in § 63.9794.

(e) If you own or operate an affected continuous kiln used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP and you must perform scheduled maintenance on the THC control device for that kiln, you may bypass the kiln THC control device and continue operating the kiln subject to the alternative standard established in this paragraph upon approval by the Administrator, provided you satisfy the conditions listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must request approval from the Administrator to bypass the control device while the scheduled maintenance is performed. You must submit a separate request each time you plan to bypass the control device, and your request must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Reason for the scheduled maintenance.

(ii) Explanation for why the maintenance cannot be performed when the kiln is shut down.

(iii) Detailed description of the maintenance activities.

(iv) Time required to complete the maintenance.

(v) How you will minimize HAP emissions from the kiln during the period when the control device is out of service.

(vi) How you will minimize the time when the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service for scheduled maintenance.

(2) Before May 19, 2022, you must minimize HAP emissions during the period when the kiln is operating, and the control device is out of service. On and after May 19, 2022, you must minimize HAP emissions during the period when the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service by complying with the applicable standard in Table 3 to this subpart.

(3) You must minimize the time period during which the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service. On and after May 19, 2022, the total time during which the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service for each year on a 12-month rolling basis must not exceed 750 hours.

(f) You must be in compliance with the provisions of subpart A of this part, except as noted in Table 11 to this subpart.
