
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9798 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests?

(a) You must conduct a performance test every 5 years following the initial performance test, as part of renewing your 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 operating permit.

(b) You must conduct a performance test when you want to change the parameter value for any operating limit specified in your OM&M plan.

(c) If you own or operate a source that is subject to the emission limits specified in items 2 through 9 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct a performance test on the source(s) listed in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section before you start production of any refractory product for which the organic HAP processing rate is likely to exceed by more than 10 percent the maximum organic HAP processing rate established during the most recent performance test on that same source.

(1) Each affected shape dryer or curing oven that is used to process the refractory product with the higher organic HAP processing rate.

(2) Each affected kiln that follows an affected shape dryer or curing oven and is used to process the refractory product with the higher organic HAP processing rate.

(d) If you own or operate a kiln that is subject to the emission limits specified in item 5 or 9 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct a performance test on the affected kiln following any process changes that are likely to increase organic HAP emissions from the kiln (e.g., a decrease in the curing cycle time for a curing oven that precedes the affected kiln in the process line).

(e) If you own or operate a clay refractory products kiln that is subject to the emission limits specified in item 10 or 11 of Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a dry limestone adsorber (DLA), you must conduct a performance test on the affected kiln following any change in the source of limestone used in the DLA.
