
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9804 What are my monitoring system installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) You must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS required by this subpart according to your OM&M plan and the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (15) of this section.

(1) You must satisfy all applicable requirements of performance specifications for CPMS specified in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, upon promulgation of such performance specifications.

(2) You must satisfy all applicable requirements of quality assurance (QA) procedures for CPMS specified in 40 CFR part 60, appendix F, upon promulgation of such QA procedures.

(3) You must install each sensor of your CPMS in a location that provides representative measurement of the appropriate parameter over all operating conditions, taking into account the manufacturer's guidelines.

(4) You must use a CPMS that is capable of measuring the appropriate parameter over a range that extends from a value of at least 20 percent less than the lowest value that you expect your CPMS to measure, to a value of at least 20 percent greater than the highest value that you expect your CPMS to measure.

(5) You must use a data acquisition and recording system that is capable of recording values over the entire range specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(6) You must use a signal conditioner, wiring, power supply, and data acquisition and recording system that are compatible with the output signal of the sensors used in your CPMS.

(7) You must perform an initial calibration of your CPMS based on the procedures specified in the manufacturer's owner's manual.

(8) You must use a CPMS that is designed to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period. To have a valid hour of data, you must have at least three of four equally-spaced data values (or at least 75 percent of the total number of values if you collect more than four data values per hour) for that hour (not including startup, shutdown, malfunction, or out-of-control periods).

(9) You must record valid data from at least 90 percent of the hours during which the affected source or process operates.

(10) You must determine and record the 15-minute block averages of all measurements, calculated after every 15 minutes of operation as the average of the previous 15 operating minutes (not including periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction).

(11) You must determine and record the 3-hour block averages of all 15-minute recorded measurements, calculated after every 3 hours of operation as the average of the previous 3 operating hours (not including periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction).

(12) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, initial validation, and accuracy audit.

(13) At all times, you must maintain your CPMS in accordance with § 63.9792(b), including, but not limited to, keeping the necessary parts readily available for routine repairs of the CPMS.

(14) You must perform an initial validation of your CPMS under the conditions specified in paragraphs (14)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Prior to the initial performance test on the affected source for which the CPMS is required.

(ii) Within 180 days of your replacing or relocating one or more of the sensors of your CPMS.

(15) Except for redundant sensors, as defined in § 63.9824, any device that you use to conduct an initial validation or accuracy audit of your CPMS must meet the accuracy requirements specified in paragraphs (15)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The device must have an accuracy that is traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) standards.

(ii) The device must be at least three times as accurate as the required accuracy for the CPMS.

(b) For each temperature CPMS that is used to monitor the combustion chamber temperature of a thermal oxidizer or the catalyst bed inlet temperature of a catalytic oxidizer, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Use a temperature CPMS with a minimum accuracy of +/-1.0 percent of the temperature value or 2.8 degrees Celsius (&#xB0;C) (5 degrees Fahrenheit (&#xB0;F)), whichever is greater.

(2) Use a data recording system with a minimum resolution of one-half or better of the required CPMS accuracy specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) Perform an initial validation of your CPMS according to the requirements in paragraph (3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Place the sensor of a calibrated temperature measurement device adjacent to the sensor of your temperature CPMS in a location that is subject to the same environment as the sensor of your temperature CPMS. The calibrated temperature measurement device must satisfy the accuracy requirements of paragraph (a)(15) of this section. While the process and control device that is monitored by your CPMS are operating normally, record concurrently and compare the temperatures measured by your temperature CPMS and the calibrated temperature measurement device. Using the calibrated temperature measurement device as the reference, the temperature measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(ii) Perform any of the initial validation methods for temperature CPMS specified in performance specifications for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(4) Perform an accuracy audit of your temperature CPMS at least quarterly, according to the requirements in paragraph (b)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If your temperature CPMS includes a redundant temperature sensor, record three pairs of concurrent temperature measurements within a 24-hour period. Each pair of concurrent measurements must consist of a temperature measurement by each of the two temperature sensors. The minimum time interval between any two such pairs of consecutive temperature measurements is 1 hour. The measurements must be taken during periods when the process and control device that is monitored by your temperature CPMS are operating normally. Calculate the mean of the three values for each temperature sensor. The mean values must agree within the required overall accuracy of the CPMS, as specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(ii) If your temperature CPMS does not include a redundant temperature sensor, place the sensor of a calibrated temperature measurement device adjacent to the sensor of your temperature CPMS in a location that is subject to the same environment as the sensor of your temperature CPMS. The calibrated temperature measurement device must satisfy the accuracy requirements of paragraph (a)(15) of this section. While the process and control device that is monitored by your temperature CPMS are operating normally, record concurrently and compare the temperatures measured by your CPMS and the calibrated temperature measurement device. Using the calibrated temperature measurement device as the reference, the temperature measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(iii) Perform any of the accuracy audit methods for temperature CPMS specified in QA procedures for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(5) Conduct an accuracy audit of your CPMS following any 24-hour period throughout which the temperature measured by your CPMS exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating temperature range, or install a new temperature sensor.

(6) If your CPMS is not equipped with a redundant temperature sensor, perform at least quarterly a visual inspection of all components of the CPMS for integrity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.

(c) For each pressure CPMS that is used to monitor the pressure drop across a DLA or wet scrubber, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (c)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Use a pressure CPMS with a minimum accuracy of +/-5.0 percent or 0.12 kilopascals (kPa) (0.5 inches of water column (in. w.c.)), whichever is greater.

(2) Use a data recording system with a minimum resolution of one-half the required CPMS accuracy specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or better.

(3) Perform an initial validation of your pressure CPMS according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Place the sensor of a calibrated pressure measurement device adjacent to the sensor of your pressure CPMS in a location that is subject to the same environment as the sensor of your pressure CPMS. The calibrated pressure measurement device must satisfy the accuracy requirements of paragraph (a)(15) of this section. While the process and control device that is monitored by your CPMS are operating normally, record concurrently and compare the pressure measured by your CPMS and the calibrated pressure measurement device. Using the calibrated pressure measurement device as the reference, the pressure measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) Perform any of the initial validation methods for pressure CPMS specified in performance specifications for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(4) Perform an accuracy audit of your pressure CPMS at least quarterly, according to the requirements in paragraph (c)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If your pressure CPMS includes a redundant pressure sensor, record three pairs of concurrent pressure measurements within a 24-hour period. Each pair of concurrent measurements must consist of a pressure measurement by each of the two pressure sensors. The minimum time interval between any two such pairs of consecutive pressure measurements is 1 hour. The measurements must be taken during periods when the process and control device that is monitored by your CPMS are operating normally. Calculate the mean of the three pressure measurement values for each pressure sensor. The mean values must agree within the required overall accuracy of the CPMS, as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) If your pressure CPMS does not include a redundant pressure sensor, place the sensor of a calibrated pressure measurement device adjacent to the sensor of your pressure CPMS in a location that is subject to the same environment as the sensor of your pressure CPMS. The calibrated pressure measurement device must satisfy the accuracy requirements of paragraph (a)(15) of this section. While the process and control device that is monitored by your pressure CPMS are operating normally, record concurrently and compare the pressure measured by your CPMS and the calibrated pressure measurement device. Using the calibrated pressure measurement device as the reference, the pressure measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iii) Perform any of the accuracy audit methods for pressure CPMS specified in QA procedures for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(5) Conduct an accuracy audit of your CPMS following any 24-hour period throughout which the pressure measured by your CPMS exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range, or install a new pressure sensor.

(6) At least monthly, check all mechanical connections on your CPMS for leakage.

(7) If your CPMS is not equipped with a redundant pressure sensor, perform at least quarterly a visual inspection of all components of the CPMS for integrity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.

(d) For each liquid flow rate CPMS that is used to monitor the liquid flow rate in a wet scrubber, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (d)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Use a flow rate CPMS with a minimum accuracy of +/-5.0 percent or 1.9 liters per minute (L/min) (0.5 gallons per minute (gal/min)), whichever is greater.

(2) Use a data recording system with a minimum resolution of one-half the required CPMS accuracy specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, or better.

(3) Perform an initial validation of your CPMS according to the requirements in paragraph (3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Use a calibrated flow rate measurement system to measure the liquid flow rate in a location that is adjacent to the measurement location for your flow rate CPMS and is subject to the same environment as your flow rate CPMS. The calibrated flow rate measurement device must satisfy the accuracy requirements of paragraph (a)(15) of this section. While the process and control device that is monitored by your flow rate CPMS are operating normally, record concurrently and compare the flow rates measured by your flow rate CPMS and the calibrated flow rate measurement device. Using the calibrated flow rate measurement device as the reference, the flow rate measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(ii) Perform any of the initial validation methods for liquid flow rate CPMS specified in performance specifications for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(4) Perform an accuracy audit of your flow rate CPMS at least quarterly, according to the requirements in paragraph (d)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If your flow rate CPMS includes a redundant sensor, record three pairs of concurrent flow rate measurements within a 24-hour period. Each pair of concurrent measurements must consist of a flow rate measurement by each of the two flow rate sensors. The minimum time interval between any two such pairs of consecutive flow rate measurements is 1 hour. The measurements must be taken during periods when the process and control device that is monitored by your flow rate CPMS are operating normally. Calculate the mean of the three flow rate measurement values for each flow rate sensor. The mean values must agree within the required overall accuracy of the CPMS, as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(ii) If your flow rate CPMS does not include a redundant flow rate sensor, place the sensor of a calibrated flow rate measurement device adjacent to the sensor of your flow rate CPMS in a location that is subject to the same environment as the sensor of your flow rate CPMS. The calibrated flow rate measurement device must satisfy the accuracy requirements of paragraph (a)(15) of this section. While the process and control device that is monitored by your flow rate CPMS are operating normally, record concurrently and compare the flow rate measured by your pressure CPMS and the calibrated flow rate measurement device. Using the calibrated flow rate measurement device as the reference, the flow rate measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(iii) Perform any of the accuracy audit methods for liquid flow rate CPMS specified in QA procedures for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(5) Conduct an accuracy audit of your flow rate CPMS following any 24-hour period throughout which the flow rate measured by your CPMS exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating range, or install a new flow rate sensor.

(6) At least monthly, check all mechanical connections on your CPMS for leakage.

(7) If your CPMS is not equipped with a redundant flow rate sensor, perform at least quarterly a visual inspection of all components of the CPMS for integrity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.

(e) For each pH CPMS that is used to monitor the pH of a wet scrubber liquid, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Use a pH CPMS with a minimum accuracy of +/-0.2 pH units.

(2) Use a data recording system with a minimum resolution of 0.1 pH units, or better.

(3) Perform an initial validation of your pH CPMS according to the requirements in paragraph (e)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Perform a single-point calibration using an NIST-certified buffer solution that is accurate to within +/-0.02 pH units at 25 &#xB0;C (77 &#xB0;F). If the expected pH of the liquid that is monitored lies in the acidic range (less than 7 pH), use a buffer solution with a pH value of 4.00. If the expected pH of the liquid that is monitored is neutral or lies in the basic range (equal to or greater than 7 pH), use a buffer solution with a pH value of 10.00. Place the electrode of your pH CPMS in the container of buffer solution. Record the pH measured by your CPMS. Using the certified buffer solution as the reference, the pH measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(ii) Perform any of the initial validation methods for pH CPMS specified in performance specifications for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(4) Perform an accuracy audit of your pH CPMS at least weekly, according to the requirements in paragraph (e)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If your pH CPMS includes a redundant pH sensor, record the pH measured by each of the two pH sensors. The measurements must be taken during periods when the process and control device that is monitored by your pH CPMS are operating normally. The two pH values must agree within the required overall accuracy of the CPMS, as specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(ii) If your pH CPMS does not include a redundant pH sensor, perform a single point calibration using an NIST-certified buffer solution that is accurate to within +/-0.02 pH units at 25 &#xB0;C (77 &#xB0;F). If the expected pH of the liquid that is monitored lies in the acidic range (less than 7 pH), use a buffer solution with a pH value of 4.00. If the expected pH of the liquid that is monitored is neutral or lies in the basic range (equal to or greater than 7 pH), use a buffer solution with a pH value of 10.00. Place the electrode of the pH CPMS in the container of buffer solution. Record the pH measured by your CPMS. Using the certified buffer solution as the reference, the pH measured by your CPMS must be within the accuracy specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(iii) Perform any of the accuracy audit methods for pH CPMS specified in QA procedures for CPMS established in 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(5) If your CPMS is not equipped with a redundant pH sensor, perform at least monthly a visual inspection of all components of the CPMS for integrity, oxidation, and galvanic corrosion.

(f) For each bag leak detection system, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (11) of this section.

(1) Each triboelectric bag leak detection system must be installed, calibrated, operated, and maintained according to the "Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance" (EPA-454/R-98-015, September 1997) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14). Other types of bag leak detection systems must be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations.

(2) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter (PM) emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter (0.0044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.

(3) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide an output of relative PM loadings.

(4) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.

(5) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will be engaged automatically when an increase in relative PM emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is easily recognized by plant operating personnel.

(6) For positive pressure fabric filter systems, a bag leak detector must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell.

(7) For negative pressure or induced air fabric filters, the bag leak detector must be installed downstream of the fabric filter.

(8) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(9) The baseline output must be established by adjusting the range and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time according to section 5.0 of the "Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance."

(10) Following initial adjustment of the system, the owner or operator must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time except as detailed in the OM&M plan. In no case may the sensitivity be increased by more than 100 percent or decreased by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection that demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition. You must record each adjustment of your bag leak detection system.

(11) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.

(g) For each lime feed rate measurement device that is used to monitor the lime feed rate of a dry injection fabric filter (DIFF) or dry lime scrubber/fabric filter (DLS/FF), or the chemical feed rate of a wet scrubber, you must meet the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.

(h) For each affected source that is subject to the emission limit specified in item 3, 4, 7, or 8 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must satisfy the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Install a THC CEMS at the outlet of the control device or in the stack of the affected source.

(2) Meet the requirements of PS-8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(3) Meet the requirements of Procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(i) Requests for approval of alternate monitoring methods must meet the requirements in §§ 63.9800(i)(2) and 63.8(f).
