
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9810 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements specified in Table 7 to this subpart.

(b) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each operating limit specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements specified in Table 8 to this subpart.

(c) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each work practice standard specified in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to you according to the requirements specified in Table 9 to this subpart.

(d) For each affected source that is equipped with an add-on APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart and each operating limit established as required in § 63.9800(i)(3) according to the methods specified in your approved alternative monitoring methods request as described in § 63.9800(i)(2).

(e) Before May 19, 2022, you must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and each operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. This includes periods of SSM. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.9814. On or after May 19, 2022, you must report each instance in which you did not meet each emission limit and each operating limit in this subpart that applies to you. These instances are deviations from the emission limitations in this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to the requirements in § 63.9814.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Before May 19, 2022, consistent with §§ 63.6(e) and 63.7(e)(1), deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.6(e)(1) and your OM&M plan. The Administrator will determine whether deviations that occur during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e). On or after May 19, 2022, consistent with §§ 63.9792(b) and 63.9800(d), deviations are not violations if you demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that you were operating in accordance with § 63.9792(b) and your OM&M plan. The Administrator will determine whether deviations are violations, according to the provisions in § 63.9792(b).

(f) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the operating limits in Table 2 to this subpart for visible emissions (VE) from clay refractory products kilns that are uncontrolled or equipped with DLA, dry lime injection fabric filter (DIFF), dry lime scrubber/fabric filter (DLS/FF) or other dry control device as described in paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section.
