
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9794 What do I need to know about operation, maintenance, and monitoring plans?
######## i.e.,

(8) Before May 19, 2022, ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d). On or after May 19, 2022, ongoing data quality assurance procedures consistent with the requirements in § 63.8(d)(1) and (2). You must keep these written procedures on record for the life of the affected source or until the affected source is no longer subject to the provisions of this part, to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator. If the performance evaluation plan in § 63.8(d)(2) is revised, you must keep previous (superseded) versions of the performance evaluation plan on record to be made available for inspection, upon request, by the Administrator, for a period of 5 years after each revision to the plan. The program of corrective action should be included in the plan required under § 63.8(d)(2).

(9) Procedures for evaluating the performance of each CPMS.

(10) Procedures for responding to operating parameter deviations, including the procedures in paragraphs (a)(10)(i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) Procedures for determining the cause of the operating parameter deviation.

(ii) Actions for correcting the deviation and returning the operating parameters to the allowable limits.

(iii) Procedures for recording the times that the deviation began and ended, and when corrective actions were initiated and completed.

(11) Procedures for keeping records to document compliance and reporting in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(12) Before Novermber 19, 2021, if you operate a kiln that is subject to the limits on the type of fuel used, as specified in items 3 and 4 of Table 3 to subpart SSSSS, procedures for using alternative fuels. On and after Novermber 19, 2021, you may not use a fuel other than natural gas or equivalent to fire the affected kiln.

(13) If you operate an affected continuous kiln used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP and you plan to take the kiln THC control device out of service for scheduled maintenance, as specified in § 63.9792(e), the procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(13)(i) and (ii) of this section.
