
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.9800 How do I conduct performance tests and establish operating limits?

(a) You must conduct each performance test in Table 4 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Before conducting the performance test, you must install and validate all monitoring equipment.

(c) Before May 19, 2022, each performance test must be conducted according to the requirements in § 63.7 and under the specific conditions in Table 4 to this subpart. On or after May 19, 2022, each performance test must be conducted under the specific conditions in Table 4 to this subpart.

(d) Before May 19, 2022, you may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 63.7(e)(1). On or after May 19, 2022, you may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You also may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup or shutdown. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. You must make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(e) You must conduct separate test runs for at least the duration specified for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3) and Table 4 to this subpart.

(f) For batch process sources, you must satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You must conduct at least two test runs.

(2) Each test run must last an entire batch cycle unless you develop an emissions profile, as specified in items 8(a)(i)(4) and 17(b)(i)(4) of Table 4 to this subpart, or you satisfy the conditions for terminating a test run prior to the completion of a batch cycle as specified in item 8(a)(i)(5) of Table 4 to this subpart.

(3) Each test run must be performed over a separate batch cycle unless you satisfy the conditions for conducting both test runs over a single batch cycle, as described in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You do not produce the product that corresponds to the maximum organic HAP processing rate for that batch process source in consecutive batch cycles.

(ii) To produce that product in two consecutive batch cycles would disrupt production of other refractory products.

(4) If you want to conduct a performance test over a single batch cycle, you must include in your Notification of Performance Test the rationale for testing over a single batch cycle.

(5) If you are granted approval to conduct a performance test over a single batch cycle, you must use paired sampling trains and collect two sets of emissions data. Each set of data can be considered a separate test run.

(g) You must use the data gathered during the performance test and the equations in paragraphs (g)(1) through (4) of this section to determine compliance with the emission limitations.

(1) To determine compliance with the total hydrocarbon (THC) emission concentration limit listed in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate your emission concentration corrected to 18 percent oxygen for each test run using Equation 1 of this section:

(2) To determine compliance with any of the emission limits based on percentage reduction across an emissions control system specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate the percentage reduction for each test run using Equation 2 of this section:

(3) To determine compliance with production-based hydrogen fluoride (HF) and hydrogen chloride (HCl) emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate your mass emissions per unit of uncalcined clay processed for each test run using Equation 3 of this section:

(4) To determine compliance with the Hg emission concentration limit listed in Table 1 to this subpart, you must calculate your emission concentration corrected to 18 percent oxygen for each test run using Equation 4 of this section:

(h) You must establish each site-specific operating limit in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to you, as specified in Table 4 to this subpart.

(i) For each affected source that is equipped with an add-on APCD that is not addressed in Table 2 to this subpart or that is using process changes as a means of meeting the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must meet the requirements in § 63.8(f) and paragraphs (i)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For sources subject to the THC concentration limit specified in item 3 or 7 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must satisfy the requirements specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must install a THC continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) at the outlet of the control device or in the stack of the affected source.

(ii) You must meet the requirements specified in Performance Specification (PS) 8 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(iii) You must meet the requirements specified in Procedure 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix F.

(2) For sources subject to the emission limits specified in item 3, 4, 7, or 8 of Table 1 to this subpart, you must submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring methods to the Administrator no later than the submittal date for the Notification of Performance Test, as specified in § 63.9812(d). The request must contain the information specified in paragraphs (i)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Description of the alternative add-on APCD or process changes.

(ii) Type of monitoring device or method that will be used, including the sensor type, location, inspection procedures, quality assurance and quality control measures, and data recording device.

(iii) Operating parameters that will be monitored.

(iv) Frequency that the operating parameter values will be determined and recorded to establish continuous compliance with the operating limits.

(v) Averaging time.

(3) You must establish site-specific operating limits during the performance test based on the information included in the approved alternative monitoring methods request and, as applicable, as specified in Table 4 to this subpart.
