
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9794 What do I need to know about operation, maintenance, and monitoring plans?
######## i.e.,

(i) Procedures for minimizing HAP emissions from the kiln during periods of scheduled maintenance of the kiln control device when the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service. On or after May 19, 2022, document the average organic HAP processing rate for that kiln (the average organic HAP processing rate based on (a) the actual production on a 6-month rolling basis (not to include periods of kiln shut down) or (b) the HAP processing rate (lb/hr) that coincides with the lowest hour of the most recent 3-hour performance test, whichever is lower), the mass fraction of organic HAP in the resins, binders, and additives for each product manufactured in the kiln and procedures for ensuring that the actual organic HAP processing rate on an hourly basis does not exceed the average organic HAP processing rate.

(ii) Procedures for minimizing any period of scheduled maintenance on the kiln control device when the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service. On or after May 19, 2022, procedures for ensuring that the total time during which the kiln is operating and the control device is out of service does not exceed 750 hours for each year on a 12-month rolling basis.

(b) Changes to the operating limits in your OM&M plan require a new performance test. If you are revising an operating limit parameter value, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Submit a Notification of Performance Test to the Administrator as specified in ยง 63.7(b).

(2) After completing the performance tests to demonstrate that compliance with the emission limits can be achieved at the revised operating limit parameter value, you must submit the summary of the performance test results and the revised operating limits as part of the Notification of Compliance Status required under ยง 63.9(h) and the complete test report according to ยง 63.9814(h).

(c) If you are revising the inspection and maintenance procedures in your OM&M plan, you do not need to conduct a new performance test.
