
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9810 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits, operating limits, and work practice standards?
######## VE testing.

(1)Monitoring VE at each kiln stack according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Perform daily VE observations of each kiln stack according to the procedures of EPA Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7. You must conduct the EPA Method 22 test while the affected source is operating under normal conditions. The duration of each EPA Method 22 test must be at least 15 minutes.

(ii) If VE are observed during any daily test conducted using EPA Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, you must promptly conduct an opacity test, according to the procedures of EPA Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4. If opacity greater than 10 percent is observed, you must initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan.

(iii) You may decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing from daily to weekly for a kiln stack if one of the conditions in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met.

(A) No VE are observed in 30 consecutive daily EPA Method 22 tests for any kiln stack; or

(B) No opacity greater than 10 percent is observed during any of the EPA Method 9 tests for any kiln stack.

(iv) If VE are observed during any weekly test and opacity greater than 10 percent is observed in the subsequent EPA Method 9 test, you must promptly initiate and complete corrective actions according to your OM&M plan, resume testing of that kiln stack following EPA Method 22 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, on a daily basis, as described in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section, and maintain that schedule until one of the conditions in paragraph (f)(1)(iii)(A) or (B) of this section is met, at which time you may again decrease the frequency of EPA Method 22 testing to a weekly basis.

(v) If greater than 10 percent opacity is observed during any test conducted using EPA Method 9 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-4, you must report these deviations by following the requirements in ยง 63.9814.
