
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9814 What reports must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit each report in Table 10 to this subpart that applies to you.

(b) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report by the date in Table 10 to this subpart and as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.9786 and ending on June 30 or December 31 and lasting at least 6 months but less than 12 months. For example, if your compliance date is March 1, then the first semiannual reporting period would begin on March 1 and end on December 31.

(2) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31 for compliance periods ending on June 30 and December 31, respectively.

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31 for compliance periods ending on June 30 and December 31, respectively.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 and, if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. In such cases, you must notify the Administrator of this change.

(c) The compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, based on information and belief formed after reasonable inquiry, the statements and information in the report are true, accurate, and complete.

(3) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(4) Before May 19, 2022, if you had a startup, shutdown, or malfunction during the reporting period, and you took actions consistent with your SSMP and OM&M plan, the compliance report must include the information specified in § 63.10(d)(5)(i). On or after May 19, 2022, if you had a deviation from any emission limitations (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) during the reporting period that apply to you, and you took actions consistent with your OM&M plan, the compliance report must include the information specified in (d) and (e) of this section.

(5) If there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) that apply to you, the compliance report must include a statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period.

(6) If there were no periods during which any affected CPMS was out of control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), the compliance report must include a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out of control during the reporting period.

(7) For each period when an affected continuous kiln used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP was operating while the THC control device was out of service, the compliance report must include a description of the control device maintenance performed, including the information specified in paragraphs (c)(7)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) The date and time when the control device was shut down and restarted.

(ii) Identification of the kiln that was operating and the number of hours that the kiln operated while the control device was out of service.

(iii) A statement of whether or not the control device maintenance was included in your approved request to bypass the control device while scheduled maintenance is performed, developed as specified in § 63.9792(e).

(iv) Before May 19, 2022, a statement of whether emissions were minimized while the control device was out of service in accordance with your OM&M plan. After May 19, 2022, a statement of whether emissions were minimized while the control device was out of service in accordance with your OM&M plan and the information specified in paragraphs (c)(7)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The average organic HAP processing rate based on actual production on a 6-month rolling basis (not to include periods of kiln shut down) or the lowest hourly organic HAP processing rate from the most recent performance test on that kiln, whichever is lower.

(B) The actual hourly organic HAP processing rate for the kiln while the control device was out of service.

(C) The amount of product manufactured and the mass of organic HAP in the product manufactured in the kiln while the control device was out of service.

(v) After May 19, 2022, an estimate of the THC emissions from the continuous kiln stack while the control device was out of service.

(vi) After May 19, 2022, the total number of hours that the kiln has operated while the control device was out of service during the last year on a 12-month rolling basis.

(d) Before May 19, 2022, for each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a CPMS to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) and (d)(1) and (2) of this section. This includes periods of SSM. On or after May 19, 2022, for each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) that occurs at an affected source where you are not using a CPMS to comply with the emission limitations in this subpart, the compliance report must contain the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) and (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) The compliance report must include the total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(2) The compliance report must include information on the number, duration in hours, and cause of deviations (including unknown cause, if applicable) and the corrective action taken.

(3) The compliance report must include the date and time of each deviation, a list of the affected sources or equipment, and an estimate of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(e) Before May 19, 2022, for each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) occurring at an affected source where you are using a CPMS to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, the compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) and (e)(1) through (13) of this section. This includes periods of SSM. On or after May 19, 2022, for each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) occurring at an affected source where you are using a CPMS to comply with the emission limitation in this subpart, the compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) and (e)(1) through (13) of this section.

(1) The total operating time of each affected source during the reporting period.

(2) Before May 19, 2022, the date and time that each startup, shutdown, or malfunction started and stopped. On or after May 19, 2022, the date and time that each startup, shutdown, or malfunction started and stopped is not required.

(3) The date, time, and duration in hours that each CPMS was inoperative.

(4) The date, time and duration in hours that each CPMS was out of control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8), as required by your OM&M plan.

(5) Before May 19, 2022, the date and time that each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard) started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction. On or after May 19, 2022, for each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit, operating limit, or work practice standard), the date and time that each deviation started and stopped, the duration in hours, a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of each regulated pollutant emitted over the emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(6) A description of corrective action taken in response to a deviation.

(7) The total number of deviations during the reporting period, a summary of the total duration in hours of the deviations during the reporting period, and the total duration as a percentage of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(8) Before May 19, 2022, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes. On or after May 19, 2022, a breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(9) A summary of the total duration in hours of CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percentage of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(10) A brief description of the process units.

(11) A brief description of the CPMS.

(12) The date of the latest CPMS initial validation or accuracy audit.

(13) A description of any changes in CPMS, processes, or controls since the last reporting period.

(f) If you have obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, you must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If you submit a compliance report according to Table 10 to this subpart along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limitation (including any operating limit), then submitting the compliance report will satisfy any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. However, submitting a compliance report will not otherwise affect any obligation you may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permit authority.

(g) Before November 19, 2021, if you operate a clay refractory products kiln or a chromium refractory products kiln that is subject to the work practice standard specified in item 3 or 4 of Table 3 to this subpart, and you use a fuel other than natural gas or equivalent to fire the affected kiln, you must submit a report of alternative fuel use within 10 working days after terminating the use of the alternative fuel. The report must include the information in paragraphs (g)(1) through (6) of this section. On and after November 19, 2021, you may not use a fuel other than natural gas or equivalent to fire the affected kiln.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Identification of the affected kiln.

(3) Reason for using the alternative fuel.

(4) Type of alternative fuel used to fire the affected kiln.

(5) Dates that the use of the alternative fuel started and ended.

(6) Amount of alternative fuel used.

(h) Beginning on May 19, 2022, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (3) of this section.
