
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9812 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8(f)(4), and 63.9 (b) through (e) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2) and (3), if you start up your affected source before April 16, 2003, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after April 16, 2003, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(3), if you start up your new or reconstructed affected source on or after April 16, 2003, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart. Initial Notifications required to be submitted after November 19, 2021 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, and on and after May 19, 2022 for all other affected sources submitting initial notifications required in § 63.9(b) must be submitted following the procedure specified in § 63.9814(h) through (l).

(d) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Performance Test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(e) If you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status as specified in § 63.9(h) and paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. After November 19, 2021 for affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after January 14, 2021, and on and after May 19, 2022 for all other affected sources, submit all subsequent Notifications of Compliance Status following the procedure specified in § 63.9814(h) through (l).

(1) For each compliance demonstration that includes a performance test conducted according to the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the summary of the performance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the performance test.

(2) In addition to the requirements in § 63.9(h)(2)(i), you must include the information in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section in your Notification of Compliance Status.

(i) The operating limit parameter values established for each affected source with supporting documentation and a description of the procedure used to establish the values.

(ii) Design information and analysis with supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with requirements for capture/collection systems in Table 2 to this subpart.

(iii) A description of the methods used to comply with any applicable work practice standard.

(iv) For each APCD that includes a fabric filter, analysis and supporting documentation demonstrating conformance with EPA guidance and specifications for bag leak detection systems in § 63.9804(f).

(f) Before November 19, 2021, if you operate a clay refractory products kiln or a chromium refractory products kiln that is subject to the work practice standard specified in item 3 or 4 of Table 3 to this subpart, and you intend to use a fuel other than natural gas or equivalent to fire the affected kiln, you must submit a notification of alternative fuel use within 48 hours of the declaration of a period of natural gas curtailment or supply interruption, as defined in § 63.9824. The notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section. On and after November 19, 2021, you may not use a fuel other than natural gas or equivalent to fire the affected kiln.

(1) Company name and address.

(2) Identification of the affected kiln.

(3) Reason you are unable to use natural gas or equivalent fuel, including the date when the natural gas curtailment was declared or the natural gas supply interruption began.

(4) Type of alternative fuel that you intend to use.

(5) Dates when the alternative fuel use is expected to begin and end.

(g) If you own or operate an affected continuous kiln used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP and must perform scheduled maintenance on the THC control device for that kiln, you must request approval from the Administrator before bypassing the control device, as specified in § 63.9792(e). You must submit a separate request for approval each time you plan to bypass the kiln control device.
