
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Refractory Products Manufacturing
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.9816 What records must I keep?

(a) You must keep the records listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Before May 19, 2022, the records in § 63.6(e)(3)(iii) through (v) related SSM.

(3) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(b) You must keep the records required in Tables 7 through 9 to this subpart to show continuous compliance with each emission limitation that applies to you.

(c) You must also maintain the records listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) Records of emission data used to develop an emissions profile, as indicated in items 8(a)(i)(4) and 17(b)(i)(4) of Table 4 to this subpart.

(2) Records that document how you comply with any applicable work practice standard.

(3) For each bag leak detection system, records of each alarm, the time of the alarm, the time corrective action was initiated and completed, and a brief description of the cause of the alarm and the corrective action taken.

(4) For each kiln controlled with a DLA, records that document the source of limestone used.

(5) For each deviation of an operating limit parameter value, record the information in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The date, time, and duration in hours of the deviation.

(ii) On or after May 19, 2022, a list of the affected sources or equipment.

(iii) On or after May 19, 2022, an estimate of the quantity in pounds of each regulated pollutant over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate emissions.

(iv) Actions taken to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.9792(b), a brief explanation of the cause of the deviation, and the corrective action taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(6) For each affected source, records of production rate on a process throughput basis (either feed rate to the process unit or discharge rate from the process unit).

(7) Records of any approved alternative monitoring method(s) or test procedure(s).

(8) Records of maintenance activities and inspections performed on control devices, including all records associated with the scheduled maintenance of the THC control devices on continuous kilns used to manufacture refractory products that use organic HAP, as specified in § 63.9792(e).

(9) If you operate a source that is subject to the THC emission limits specified in item 2, 3, 6, or 7 of Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a catalytic oxidizer, records of annual checks of catalyst activity levels and subsequent corrective actions.

(10) Current copies of the OM&M plan, including any revisions and records documenting conformance with those revisions.
