
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTTT - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Magnesium Refining
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.9883 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have an existing source, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you no later than October 11, 2004.

(b) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is on or before October 11, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you by October 10, 2003.

(c) If you have a new affected source and its initial startup date is after October 10, 2003, you must comply with each emission limitation, work practice standard, and operation and maintenance requirement in this subpart that applies to you upon initial startup.

(d) If your primary magnesium refinery is an area source that becomes a major source of HAP, the compliance dates in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section apply to you:

(1) Any portion of the existing primary magnesium refinery that is a new affected source or a new reconstructed source must be in compliance with this subpart upon startup.

(2) All other parts of the primary magnesium refinery must be in compliance with this subpart no later than 2 years after it becomes a major source.

(e) You must meet the notification and schedule requirements in ยง 63.9930. Several of these notifications must be submitted before the compliance date for your affected source.
