
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTTT - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Magnesium Refining
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9915 What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with dioxin/furan emission limits?

(a) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source according to the requirements in ยง 63.7(e)(1).

(b) To determine compliance with the applicable emission limit for dioxins/furans in Table 1 to this subpart, you must follow the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of dioxin and furan according to the following test methods in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60:

(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.

(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 23 to determine the concentration of dioxins/furans. For each dioxin/furan congener measured in accordance with this paragraph (b)(v), multiply the congener concentration by its corresponding toxic equivalency factor specified in Table 2 of this subpart.

(2) Collect a minimum sample of 100 dscf during each test run. Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test.
