
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTTT - National Emissions Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Magnesium Refining
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.9912 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests?
############### ยง 63.9913 What test methods and other procedures must I use to demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits for particulate matter and PM?

(a) You must conduct each performance test that applies to your affected source according to the requirements in ยง 63.7(e)(1).

(b) To determine compliance with the applicable emission limits for particulate matter in Table 1 to this subpart, you must follow the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of particulate matter according to the following test methods in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60:

(i) Method 1 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points. Sampling ports must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas.

(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 5 or 5D, as applicable, to determine the concentration of particulate matter.

(vi) Method 201 or 201A, as applicable, to determine the concentration of PM.

(2) Collect a minimum sample volume of 60 dry standard cubic feet (dscf) during each particulate matter or PMtest run. Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test.

(c) Compute the mass emissions rate in pounds per hour (lbs/hr) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section:
