
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.9983 Are any fossil fuel-fired electric generating units not subject to this subpart?

The types of electric steam generating units listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section are not subject to this subpart.

(a) Any unit designated as a major source stationary combustion turbine subject to subpart YYYY of this part and any unit designated as an area source stationary combustion turbine, other than an integrated gasification combined cycle (IGCC) unit.

(b) Any electric utility steam generating unit that is not a coal- or oil-fired EGU and that meets the definition of a natural gas-fired EGU in ยง 63.10042.

(c) Any electric utility steam generating unit that has the capability of combusting more than 25 MW of coal or oil but does not meet the definition of a coal- or oil-fired EGU because it did not fire sufficient coal or oil to satisfy the average annual heat input requirement set forth in the definitions for coal-fired and oil-fired EGUs in ยง 63.10042. Heat input means heat derived from combustion of fuel in an EGU and does not include the heat derived from preheated combustion air, recirculated flue gases or exhaust gases from other sources (such as stationary gas turbines, internal combustion engines, and industrial boilers).

(d) Any electric steam generating unit combusting solid waste is a solid waste incineration unit subject to standards established under sections 129 and 111 of the Clean Air Act.

(e) Any electric utility steam generating unit that meets the definition of a natural gas-fired EGU under this subpart and that fires at least 10 percent biomass is an industrial boiler subject to standards established under subpart DDDDD of this part, if it otherwise meets the applicability provisions in that rule.
