
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?

(a) You must be in compliance with the emission limits and operating limits in this subpart. These limits apply to you at all times except during periods of startup and shutdown; however, for coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGUs, you are required to meet the work practice requirements, items 3 and 4, in Table 3 to this subpart during periods of startup or shutdown.

(b) At all times you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the EPA Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(c)(1) For coal-fired units, IGCC units, and solid oil-derived fuel-fired units, initial performance testing is required for all pollutants, to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits.

(i) For a coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU or IGCC EGU, you may conduct initial performance testing in accordance with ยง 63.10005(h), to determine whether the EGU qualifies as a low emitting EGU (LEE) for one or more applicable emission limits, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section:

(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(i)(C) of this section, you may not pursue the LEE option if your coal-fired, IGCC, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU is equipped with a main stack and a bypass stack or bypass duct configuration that allows the effluent to bypass any pollutant control device.

(B) You may not pursue the LEE option for Hg if your coal-fired, solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU or IGCC EGU is new.

(C) You may pursue the LEE option provided that:
