
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## e.g.,,e.g.,

(f) Except as provided under paragraph (n) of this section, you are subject to the requirements of this subpart for at least 6 months following the last date you met the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart (6 months after a cogeneration unit provided more than one third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 25 megawatts electrical output to any power distributions system for sale). You may opt to remain subject to the provisions of this subpart beyond 6 months after the last date you met the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, unless your unit is a solid waste incineration unit subject to standards under CAA section 129 (40 CFR part 60, subpart CCCC (New Source Performance Standards (NSPS) for Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units, or subpart DDDD (Emissions Guidelines (EG) for Existing Commercial and Industrial Solid Waste Incineration Units). Notwithstanding the provisions of this subpart, an EGU that starts combusting solid waste is immediately subject to standards under CAA section 129 and the EGU remains subject to those standards until the EGU no longer meets the definition of a solid waste incineration unit consistent with the provisions of the applicable CAA section 129 standards.

(g) Except as provided under paragraph (n) of this section, if your unit no longer meets the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart you must be in compliance with any newly applicable standards on the date you are no longer subject to this subpart. The date you are no longer subject to this subpart is a date selected by you, that must be at least 6 months from the date that your unit last met the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart or the date you begin combusting solid waste, consistent with § 63.9983(d). Your source must remain in compliance with this subpart until the date you select to cease complying with this subpart or the date you begin combusting solid waste, whichever is earlier.

(h)(1) If you own or operate an EGU that does not meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart on April 16, 2015, and you commence or recommence operations that cause you to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, you are subject to the provisions of this subpart, including, but not limited to, the emission limitations and the monitoring requirements, as of the first day you meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart. You must complete all initial compliance demonstrations for this subpart applicable to your EGU within 180 days after you commence or recommence operations that cause you to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart.

(2) You must provide 30 days prior notice of the date you intend to commence or recommence operations that cause you to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart. The notification must identify:

(i) The name of the owner or operator of the EGU, the location of the facility, the unit(s) that will commence or recommence operations that will cause the unit(s) to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, and the date of the notice;

(ii) The 40 CFR part 60, part 62, or part 63 subpart and subcategory currently applicable to your unit(s), and the subcategory of this subpart that will be applicable after you commence or recommence operation that will cause the unit(s) to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart;

(iii) The date on which you became subject to the currently applicable emission limits;

(iv) The date upon which you will commence or recommence operations that will cause your unit to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, consistent with paragraph (f) of this section.

(i)(1) If you own or operate an EGU subject to this subpart and cease to operate in a manner that causes your unit to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart, you must be in compliance with any newly applicable section 112 or 129 standards on the date you selected consistent with paragraphs (g) and (n) of this section.

(2) You must provide 30 days prior notice of the date your EGU will cease complying with this subpart. The notification must identify:

(i) The name of the owner or operator of the EGU(s), the location of the facility, the EGU(s) that will cease complying with this subpart, and the date of the notice;

(ii) The currently applicable subcategory under this subpart, and any 40 CFR part 60, part 62, or part 63 subpart and subcategory that will be applicable after you cease complying with this subpart;

(iii) The date on which you became subject to this subpart;

(iv) The date upon which you will cease complying with this subpart, consistent with paragraph (g) of this section.

(j) All air pollution control equipment necessary for compliance with any newly applicable emissions limits which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of operations that cause your EGU to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart must be installed and operational as of the date your source ceases to be or becomes subject to this subpart.

(k) All monitoring systems necessary for compliance with any newly applicable monitoring requirements which apply as a result of the cessation or commencement or recommencement of operations that cause your EGU to meet the definition of an EGU subject to this subpart must be installed and operational as of the date your source ceases to be or becomes subject to this subpart. All calibration and drift checks must be performed as of the date your source ceases to be or becomes subject to this subpart. You must also comply with provisions of §§ 63.10010, 63.10020, and 63.10021 of this subpart. Relative accuracy tests must be performed as of the performance test deadline for PM CEMS, if applicable. Relative accuracy testing for other CEMS need not be repeated if that testing was previously performed consistent with CAA section 112 monitoring requirements or monitoring requirements under this subpart.

(l) On or before the date an EGU is subject to this subpart, you must install, certify, operate, maintain, and quality assure each monitoring system necessary for demonstrating compliance with the work practice standards for PM or non-mercury HAP metals during startup periods and shutdown periods. You must collect, record, report, and maintain data obtained from these monitoring systems during startup periods and shutdown periods.

(m) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in § 63.10042 for your EGU, on or before the date your EGU is subject to this subpart, you must install, verify, operate, maintain, and quality assure each monitoring system necessary for demonstrating compliance with the work practice standards for PM or non-mercury HAP metals controls during startup periods and shutdown periods required to comply with § 63.10020(e).

(1) You may rely on monitoring system specifications or instructions or manufacturer's specifications when installing, verifying, operating, maintaining, and quality assuring each monitoring system.

(2) You must collect, record, report, and maintain data obtained from these monitoring systems during startup periods and shutdown periods.

(n) If you have permanently converted your EGU from coal or oil to natural gas or biomass after your compliance date (or, if applicable, after your approved extended compliance date), as demonstrated by being subject to a permit provision or physical limitation (including retirement) that prevents you from operating in a manner that would subject you to this subpart, you are no longer subject to this subpart, notwithstanding the coal or oil usage in the previous calendar years. The date on which you are no longer subject to this subpart is the date on which you converted to natural gas or biomass firing; it is also the date on which you must be in compliance with any newly applicable standards.
