
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10005 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
######## CMS requirements.

(d)If, for a particular emission or operating limit, you are required to (or elect to) demonstrate initial compliance using a continuous monitoring system, the CMS must pass a performance evaluation prior to the initial compliance demonstration. If a CMS has been previously certified under another state or federal program and is continuing to meet the on-going quality-assurance (QA) requirements of that program, then, provided that the certification and QA provisions of that program meet the applicable requirements of §§ 63.10010(b) through (h), an additional performance evaluation of the CMS is not required under this subpart.

(1) For an affected coal-fired, solid oil-derived fuel-fired, or liquid oil-fired EGU, you may demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable SO, HCl, or HF emissions limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart through use of an SO, HCl, or HF CEMS installed and operated in accordance with part 75 of this chapter or appendix B to this subpart, as applicable. You may also demonstrate compliance with a filterable PM emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart through use of a PM CEMS installed, certified, and operated in accordance with § 63.10010(i). Initial compliance is achieved if the arithmetic average of 30-boiler operating days of quality-assured CEMS data, expressed in units of the standard (see § 63.10007(e)), meets the applicable SO, PM, HCl, or HF emissions limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. Use Equation 19-19 of Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to calculate the 30-boiler operating day average emissions rate. (For this calculation, the term Ein Equation 19-19 must be in the same units of measure as the applicable HCl or HF emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart).

(2) For affected coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGUs that demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits for total non-mercury HAP metals, individual non-mercury HAP metals, total HAP metals, individual HAP metals, or filterable PM listed in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart using initial performance testing and continuous monitoring with PM CPMS:

(i) You must demonstrate initial compliance no later than the applicable date specified in § 63.9984(f) for existing EGUs and in paragraph (g) of this section for new EGUs.

(ii) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the PM CPMS site-specific operating limit that corresponds to the results of the performance test demonstrating compliance with the emission limit with which you choose to comply.

(iii) You must repeat the performance test annually for the selected pollutant emissions limit and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.

(3) For affected EGUs that are either required to or elect to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable Hg emission limit in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart using Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring systems, initial compliance must be demonstrated no later than the applicable date specified in § 63.9984(f) for existing EGUs and in paragraph (g) of this section for new EGUs. Initial compliance is achieved if the arithmetic average of 30- (or 90-) boiler operating days of quality-assured CEMS (or sorbent trap monitoring system) data, expressed in units of the standard (see section 6.2 of appendix A to this subpart), meets the applicable Hg emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.

(4) For affected liquid oil-fired EGUs that demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits for HCl or HF listed in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart using quarterly testing and continuous monitoring with a CMS:

(i) You must demonstrate initial compliance no later than the applicable date specified in § 63.9984(f) for existing EGUs and in paragraph (g) of this section for new EGUs.

(ii) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the CMS site-specific operating limit that corresponds to the results of the performance test demonstrating compliance with the HCl or HF emissions limit.

(iii) You must repeat the performance test annually for the HCl or HF emissions limit and reassess and adjust the site-specific operating limit in accordance with the results of the performance test.
