
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### General Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10000 What are my general requirements for complying with this subpart?
######## 2

() Except for hours during which only clean fuel is combusted, you bypass your EGU control device only during emergency periods for no more than a total of 2 percent of your EGU's annual operating hours; you use clean fuels to the maximum extent possible during an emergency period; and you prepare and submit a report describing the emergency event, its cause, corrective action taken, and estimates of emissions released during the emergency event. You must include these emergency emissions along with performance test results in assessing whether your EGU maintains LEE status.

(ii) For a qualifying LEE for Hg emissions limits, you must conduct a 30-day performance test using Method 30B at least once every 12 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status.

(iii) For a qualifying LEE of any other applicable emissions limits, you must conduct a performance test at least once every 36 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status.

(iv) If your coal-fired or solid oil derived fuel-fired EGU or IGCC EGU does not qualify as a LEE for total non-mercury HAP metals, individual non-mercury HAP metals, or filterable particulate matter (PM), you must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test and you must monitor continuous performance through either use of a particulate matter continuous parametric monitoring system (PM CPMS), a PM CEMS, or, for an existing EGU, compliance performance testing repeated quarterly.

(v) If your coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU does not qualify as a LEE for hydrogen chloride (HCl), you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through use of an HCl CEMS, installed and operated in accordance with Appendix B to this subpart. As an alternative to HCl CEMS, you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance by conducting an initial and periodic quarterly performance stack test for HCl. If your EGU uses wet or dry flue gas desulfurization technology (this includes limestone injection into a fluidized bed combustion unit), you may apply a second alternative to HCl CEMS by installing and operating a sulfur dioxide (SO) CEMS installed and operated in accordance with part 75 of this chapter to demonstrate compliance with the applicable SOemissions limit.

(vi) If your coal-fired or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU does not qualify as a LEE for Hg, you must demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through use of a Hg CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system, in accordance with appendix A to this subpart.

(A) You may choose to use separate sorbent trap monitoring systems to comply with this subpart: One sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the numeric mercury emissions limit during periods other than startup or shutdown and the other sorbent trap monitoring system to report average mercury concentration during startup periods or shutdown periods.

(B) You may choose to use one sorbent trap monitoring system to demonstrate compliance with the mercury emissions limit at all times (including startup periods and shutdown periods) and to report average mercury concentration. You must follow the startup or shutdown requirements that follow and as given in Table 3 to this subpart for each coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU.

(2) For liquid oil-fired EGUs, except limited use liquid oil-fired EGUs, initial performance testing is required for all pollutants, to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limits.

(i) For an existing liquid oil-fired unit, you may conduct the performance testing in accordance with § 63.10005(h), to determine whether the unit qualifies as a LEE for one or more pollutants. For a qualifying LEE for Hg emissions limits, you must conduct a 30-day performance test using Method 30B at least once every 12 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status. For a qualifying LEE of any other applicable emissions limits, you must conduct a performance test at least once every 36 calendar months to demonstrate continued LEE status.

(ii) If your liquid oil-fired unit does not qualify as a LEE for total HAP metals (including mercury), individual metals (including mercury), or filterable PM you must demonstrate compliance through an initial performance test and you must monitor continuous performance through either use of a PM CPMS, a PM CEMS, or, for an existing EGU, performance testing conducted quarterly.

(iii) If your existing liquid oil-fired unit does not qualify as a LEE for hydrogen chloride (HCl) or for hydrogen fluoride (HF), you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through use of an HCl CEMS, an HF CEMS, or an HCl and HF CEMS, installed and operated in accordance with Appendix B to this rule. As an alternative to HCl CEMS, HF CEMS, or HCl and HF CEMS, you may demonstrate initial and continuous compliance through quarterly performance testing and parametric monitoring for HCl and HF. If you choose to use quarterly testing and parametric monitoring, then you must also develop a site-specific monitoring plan that identifies the CMS you will use to ensure that the operations of the EGU remains consistent with those during the performance test. As another alternative, you may measure or obtain, and keep records of, fuel moisture content; as long as fuel moisture does not exceed 1.0 percent by weight, you need not conduct other HCl or HF monitoring or testing.

(iv) If your unit qualifies as a limited-use liquid oil-fired as defined in § 63.10042, then you are not subject to the emission limits in Tables 1 and 2, but you must comply with the performance tune-up work practice requirements in Table 3.

(d)(1) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emissions limit through use of a continuous monitoring system (CMS), where a CMS includes a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) as well as a continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS), you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan and submit this site-specific monitoring plan, if requested, at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation (where applicable) of your CMS. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f). This requirement to develop and submit a site-specific monitoring plan does not apply to affected sources with existing monitoring plans that apply to CEMS and CPMS prepared under appendix B to part 60 or part 75 of this chapter, and that meet the requirements of § 63.10010. Using the process described in § 63.8(f)(4), you may request approval of monitoring system quality assurance and quality control procedures alternative to those specified in this paragraph of this section and, if approved, include those in your site-specific monitoring plan. The monitoring plan must address the provisions in paragraphs (d)(2) through (5) of this section.

(2) The site-specific monitoring plan shall include the information specified in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (d)(5)(vii) of this section. Alternatively, the requirements of paragraphs (d)(5)(i) through (d)(5)(vii) are considered to be met for a particular CMS or sorbent trap monitoring system if:

(i) The CMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is installed, certified, maintained, operated, and quality-assured either according to part 75 of this chapter, or appendix A or B to this subpart; and

(ii) The recordkeeping and reporting requirements of part 75 of this chapter, or appendix A or B to this subpart, that pertain to the CMS are met.

(3) If requested by the Administrator, you must submit the monitoring plan (or relevant portion of the plan) at least 60 days before the initial performance evaluation of a particular CMS, except where the CMS has already undergone a performance evaluation that meets the requirements of § 63.10010 (e.g., if the CMS was previously certified under another program).

(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(5) The provisions of the site-specific monitoring plan must address the following items:

(i) Installation of the CMS or sorbent trap monitoring system sampling probe or other interface at a measurement location relative to each affected process unit such that the measurement is representative of control of the exhaust emissions (e.g., on or downstream of the last control device). See § 63.10010(a) for further details. For PM CPMS installations, follow the procedures in § 63.10010(h).

(ii) Performance and equipment specifications for the sample interface, the pollutant concentration or parametric signal analyzer, and the data collection and reduction systems.

(iii) Schedule for conducting initial and periodic performance evaluations.

(iv) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (e.g., calibrations), including the quality control program in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d).

(v) On-going operation and maintenance procedures, in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.8(c)(1)(ii), (c)(3), and (c)(4)(ii).

(vi) Conditions that define a CMS that is out of control consistent with § 63.8(c)(7)(i) where appropriate, and for responding to out of control periods consistent with §§ 63.8(c)(7)(ii) and (c)(8).

(vii) On-going recordkeeping and reporting procedures, in accordance with the general requirements of §§ 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i), or as specifically required under this subpart.

(e) As part of your demonstration of continuous compliance, you must perform periodic tune-ups of your EGU(s), according to § 63.10021(e).
