
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10005 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
######## General requirements.,e.g.,,e.g.,

(a)For each of your affected EGUs, you must demonstrate initial compliance with each applicable emissions limit in Table 1 or 2 of this subpart through performance testing. Where two emissions limits are specified for a particular pollutant (a heat input-based limit in lb/MMBtu and a gross output-based limit in lb/MWh), you may demonstrate compliance with either emission limit. For a particular compliance demonstration, you may be required to conduct one or more of the following activities in conjunction with performance testing: collection of data,hourly gross output data (megawatts); establishment of operating limits according to ยง 63.10011 and Tables 4 and 7 to this subpart; and CMS performance evaluations. In all cases, you must demonstrate initial compliance no later than the date in paragraph (f) of this section for tune-up work practices for existing EGUs; the date that compliance must be demonstrated, as given in ยง 63.9984 for other requirements for existing EGUs; and in paragraph (g) of this section for all requirements for new EGUs.

(1) To demonstrate initial compliance with an applicable emissions limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart using stack testing, the initial performance test generally consists of three runs at specified process operating conditions using approved methods. If you are required to establish operating limits (see paragraph (d) of this section and Table 4 to this subpart), you must collect all applicable parametric data during the performance test period. Also, if you choose to comply with an electrical output-based emission limit, you must collect hourly electrical load data during the test period.
