
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10006 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests or tune-ups?

(a) For liquid oil-fired, solid oil-derived fuel-fired and coal-fired EGUs and IGCC units using PM CPMS to monitor continuous performance with an applicable emission limit as provided for under § 63.10000(c), you must conduct all applicable performance tests according to Table 5 to this subpart and § 63.10007 at least every year.

(b) For affected units meeting the LEE requirements of § 63.10005(h), you must repeat the performance test once every 3 years (once every year for Hg) according to Table 5 and § 63.10007. Should subsequent emissions testing results show the unit does not meet the LEE eligibility requirements, LEE status is lost. If this should occur:

(1) For all pollutant emission limits except for Hg, you must conduct emissions testing quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1).

(2) For Hg, you must install, certify, maintain, and operate a Hg CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system in accordance with appendix A to this subpart, within 6 calendar months of losing LEE eligibility. Until the Hg CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system is installed, certified, and operating, you must conduct Hg emissions testing quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1). You must have 3 calendar years of testing and CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring system data that satisfy the LEE emissions criteria to reestablish LEE status.

(c) Except where paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section apply, or where you install, certify, and operate a PM CEMS to demonstrate compliance with a filterable PM emissions limit, for liquid oil-, solid oil-derived fuel-, coal-fired and IGCC EGUs, you must conduct all applicable periodic emissions tests for filterable PM, individual, or total HAP metals emissions according to Table 5 to this subpart, § 63.10007, and § 63.10000(c), except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1).

(d) Except where paragraph (b) of this section applies, for solid oil-derived fuel- and coal-fired EGUs that do not use either an HCl CEMS to monitor compliance with the HCl limit or an SOCEMS to monitor compliance with the alternate equivalent SOemission limit, you must conduct all applicable periodic HCl emissions tests according to Table 5 to this subpart and § 63.10007 at least quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1).

(e) Except where paragraph (b) of this section applies, for liquid oil-fired EGUs without HCl CEMS, HF CEMS, or HCl and HF CEMS, you must conduct all applicable emissions tests for HCl, HF, or HCl and HF emissions according to Table 5 to this subpart and § 63.10007 at least quarterly, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10021(d)(1), and conduct site-specific monitoring under a plan as provided for in § 63.10000(c)(2)(iii).
