
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10006 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests or tune-ups?
######## Time between performance tests.

(f)(1) Notwithstanding the provisions of § 63.10021(d)(1), the requirements listed in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, and the requirements of paragraph (f)(3) of this section, you must complete performance tests for your EGU as follows:

(i) At least 45 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate performance tests conducted every quarter;

(ii) For annual testing:

(A) At least 320 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate performance tests;

(B) At least 320 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate annual sorbent trap mercury testing for 30-boiler operating day LEE tests;

(C) At least 230 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate annual sorbent trap mercury testing for 90-boiler operating day LEE tests; and

(iii) At least 1,050 calendar days, measured from the test's end date, must separate performance tests conducted every 3 years.

(2) For units demonstrating compliance through quarterly emission testing, you must conduct a performance test in the 4th quarter of a calendar year if your EGU has skipped performance tests in the first 3 quarters of the calendar year.

(3) If your EGU misses a performance test deadline due to being inoperative and if 168 or more boiler operating hours occur in the next test period, you must complete an additional performance test in that period as follows:

(i) At least 15 calendar days must separate two performance tests conducted in the same quarter.

(ii) At least 107 calendar days must separate two performance tests conducted in the same calendar year.

(iii) At least 350 calendar days must separate two performance tests conducted in the same 3 year period.

(g) If you elect to demonstrate compliance using emissions averaging under § 63.10009, you must continue to conduct performance stack tests at the appropriate frequency given in section (c) through (f) of this section.

(h) If a performance test on a non-mercury LEE shows emissions in excess of 50 percent of the emission limit and if you choose to reapply for LEE status, you must conduct performance tests at the appropriate frequency given in section (c) through (e) of this section for that pollutant until all performance tests over a consecutive 3-year period show compliance with the LEE criteria.

(i) If you are required to meet an applicable tune-up work practice standard, you must conduct a performance tune-up according to § 63.10021(e).

(1) For EGUs not employing neural network combustion optimization during normal operation, each performance tune-up specified in § 63.10021(e) must be no more than 36 calendar months after the previous performance tune-up.

(2) For EGUs employing neural network combustion optimization systems during normal operation, each performance tune-up specified in § 63.10021(e) must be no more than 48 calendar months after the previous performance tune-up.
