
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10005 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
######## Liquid-oil fuel moisture measurement.

(i)If your EGU combusts liquid fuels, if your fuel moisture content is no greater than 1.0 percent by weight, and if you would like to demonstrate initial and ongoing compliance with HCl and HF emissions limits, you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Measure fuel moisture content of each shipment of fuel if your fuel arrives on a batch basis; or

(2) Measure fuel moisture content daily if your fuel arrives on a continuous basis; or

(3) Obtain and maintain a fuel moisture certification from your fuel supplier.

(4) Use one of the following methods to determine fuel moisture content:

(i) ASTM D95-05 (Reapproved 2010), "Standard Test Method for Water in Petroleum Products and Bituminous Materials by Distillation," or

(ii) ASTM D4006-11, "Standard Test Method for Water in Crude Oil by Distillation," including Annex A1 and Appendix A1.

(5) Use one of the following methods to obtain fuel moisture samples:

(i) ASTM D4177-95 (Reapproved 2010), "Standard Practice for Automatic Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products," including Annexes A1 through A6 and Appendices X1 and X2, or

(ii) ASTM D4057-06 (Reapproved 2011), "Standard Practice for Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products," including Annex A1.

(6) Should the moisture in your liquid fuel be more than 1.0 percent by weight, you must

(i) Conduct HCl and HF emissions testing quarterly (and monitor site-specific operating parameters as provided in ยง 63.10000(c)(2)(iii) or

(ii) Use an HCl CEMS and/or HF CEMS.

(j) Startup and shutdown for coal-fired or solid oil derived-fired units. You must follow the requirements given in Table 3 to this subpart.

(k) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status summarizing the results of your initial compliance demonstration, as provided in ยง 63.10030.
