
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10005 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
######## Low emitting EGUs.

(h)The provisions of this paragraph (h) apply to pollutants with emissions limits from new EGUs except Hg and to all pollutants with emissions limits from existing EGUs. You may pursue this compliance option unless prohibited pursuant to § 63.10000(c)(1)(i).

(1) An EGU may qualify for low emitting EGU (LEE) status for Hg, HCl, HF, filterable PM, total non-Hg HAP metals, or individual non-Hg HAP metals (or total HAP metals or individual HAP metals, for liquid oil-fired EGUs) if you collect performance test data that meet the requirements of this paragraph (h), and if those data demonstrate:

(i) For all pollutants except Hg, performance test emissions results less than 50 percent of the applicable emissions limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for all required testing for 3 consecutive years; or

(ii) For Hg emissions from an existing EGU, either:

(A) Average emissions less than 10 percent of the applicable Hg emissions limit in Table 2 to this subpart (expressed either in units of lb/TBtu or lb/GWh); or

(B) Potential Hg mass emissions of 29.0 or fewer pounds per year and compliance with the applicable Hg emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart (expressed either in units of lb/TBtu or lb/GWh).

(2) For all pollutants except Hg, you must conduct all required performance tests described in § 63.10007 to demonstrate that a unit qualifies for LEE status.

(i) When conducting emissions testing to demonstrate LEE status, you must increase the minimum sample volume specified in Table 1 or 2 nominally by a factor of two.

(ii) Follow the instructions in § 63.10007(e) and Table 5 to this subpart to convert the test data to the units of the applicable standard.

(3) For Hg, you must conduct a 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day performance test using Method 30B in appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter to determine whether a unit qualifies for LEE status. Locate the Method 30B sampling probe tip at a point within 10 percent of the duct area centered about the duct's centroid at a location that meets Method 1 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter and conduct at least three nominally equal length test runs over the 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day test period. You may use a pair of sorbent traps to sample the stack gas for a period consistent with that given in section 5.2.1 of appendix A to this subpart. Collect Hg emissions data continuously over the entire test period (except when changing sorbent traps or performing required reference method QA procedures). As an alternative to constant rate sampling per Method 30B, you may use proportional sampling per section 8.2.2 of Performance Specification 12 B in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter.

(i) Depending on whether you intend to assess LEE status for Hg in terms of the lb/TBtu or lb/GWh emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart or in terms of the annual Hg mass emissions limit of 29.0 lb/year, you will have to collect some or all of the following data during the 30-boiler operating day test period (see paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section):

(A) Diluent gas (COor O) data, using either Method 3A in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter or a diluent gas monitor that has been certified according to part 75 of this chapter.

(B) Stack gas flow rate data, using either Method 2, 2F, or 2G in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter, or a flow rate monitor that has been certified according to part 75 of this chapter.

(C) Stack gas moisture content data, using either Method 4 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter, or a moisture monitoring system that has been certified according to part 75 of this chapter. Alternatively, an appropriate fuel-specific default moisture value from § 75.11(b) of this chapter may be used in the calculations or you may petition the Administrator under § 75.66 of this chapter for use of a default moisture value for non-coal-fired units.

(D) Hourly gross output data (megawatts), from facility records.

(ii) If you use CEMS to measure CO(or O) concentration, and/or flow rate, and/or moisture, record hourly average values of each parameter throughout the 30-boiler operating day test period. If you opt to use EPA reference methods rather than CEMS for any parameter, you must perform at least one representative test run on each operating day of the test period, using the applicable reference method.

(iii) Calculate the average Hg concentration, in µg/m(dry basis), for each of LEE test runs comprising the 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day performance test, as the arithmetic average of all Method 30B sorbent trap results from the LEE test period. Also calculate, as applicable, the average values of COor Oconcentration, stack gas flow rate, stack gas moisture content, and gross output for the LEE test period. Then:

(A) To express the test results in units of lb/TBtu, follow the procedures in § 63.10007(e). Use the average Hg concentration and diluent gas values in the calculations.

(B) To express the test results in units of lb/GWh, use Equations A-3 and A-4 in section 6.2.2 of appendix A to this subpart, replacing the hourly values "C", "Q", "B" and "(MW)" with the average values of these parameters from the performance test.

(C) To calculate pounds of Hg per year, use one of the following methods:
