
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10005 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
######## Tune-ups.

(e)All affected EGUs are subject to the work practice standards in Table 3 of this subpart. As part of your initial compliance demonstration, you must conduct a performance tune-up of your EGU according to ยง 63.10021(e).

(f) For an existing EGU without a neural network, a tune-up, following the procedures in ยง 63.10021(e), must occur within 6 months (180 days) after April 16, 2015. For an existing EGU with a neural network, a tune-up must occur within 18 months (545 days) after April 16, 2016. If a tune-up occurs prior to April 16, 2015, you must keep records showing that the tune-up met all rule requirements.

(g) If your new or reconstructed affected source commenced construction or reconstruction between May 3, 2011, and July 2, 2011, you must demonstrate initial compliance with either the proposed emission limits or the promulgated emission limits no later than 180 days after April 16, 2012 or within 180 days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to ยง 63.7(a)(2)(ix).

(1) For the new or reconstructed affected source described in this paragraph (g), if you choose to comply with the proposed emission limits when demonstrating initial compliance, you must conduct a second compliance demonstration for the promulgated emission limits within 3 years after April 16, 2012 or within 3 years after startup of the affected source, whichever is later.

(2) If your new or reconstructed affected source commences construction or reconstruction after April 16, 2012, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the promulgated emission limits no later than 180 days after startup of the source.
