
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10009 May I use emissions averaging to comply with this subpart?
######## Separate stack requirements.

(c)For a group of two or more existing EGUs in the same subcategory that each vent to a separate stack, you may average filterable PM, SO, HF, HCl, non-Hg HAP metals, or Hg emissions to demonstrate compliance with the limits in Table 2 to this subpart if you satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (d) through (j) of this section.

(d) For each existing EGU in the averaging group:

(1) The emissions rate achieved during the initial performance test for the HAP being averaged must not exceed the emissions level that was being achieved 180 days after April 16, 2015, or the date on which emissions testing done to support your emissions averaging plan is complete (if the Administrator does not require submission and approval of your emissions averaging plan), or the date that you begin emissions averaging, whichever is earlier; or

(2) The control technology employed during the initial performance test must not be less than the design efficiency of the emissions control technology employed 180 days after April 16, 2015 or the date that you begin emissions averaging, whichever is earlier.

(e) The weighted-average emissions rate from the existing EGUs participating in the emissions averaging option must be in compliance with the limits in Table 2 to this subpart at all times following the date that you begin emissions averaging.

(f) Emissions averaging group eligibility demonstration. You must demonstrate the ability for the EGUs included in the emissions averaging group to demonstrate initial compliance according to paragraph (f)(1) or (2) of this section using the maximum rated heat input or gross output over a 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day period of each EGU and the results of the initial performance tests. For this demonstration and prior to preparing your emissions averaging plan, you must conduct required emissions monitoring for 30- (or 90-) days of boiler operation and any required manual performance testing to calculate maximum weighted average emissions rate in accordance with this section. If, before the start of your initial compliance demonstration, the Administrator becomes aware that you intend to use emissions averaging for that demonstration, or if your initial Notification of Compliance Status (NOCS) indicates that you intend to implement emissions averaging at a future date, the Administrator may require you to submit your proposed emissions averaging plan and supporting data for approval. If the Administrator requires approval of your plan, you may not begin using emissions averaging until the Administrator approves your plan.

(1) You must use Equation 1a in paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that the maximum weighted average emissions rates of filterable PM, HF, SO, HCl, non-Hg HAP metals, or Hg emissions from the existing units participating in the emissions averaging option do not exceed the emissions limits in Table 2 to this subpart.

(2) If you are not capable of monitoring heat input or gross output, and the EGU generates steam for purposes other than generating electricity, you may use Equation 1b of paragraph (b) of this section as an alternative to using Equation 1a of paragraph (b) of this section to demonstrate that the maximum weighted average emissions rates of filterable PM, HF, SO, HCl, non-Hg HAP metals, or Hg emissions from the existing units participating in the emissions averaging group do not exceed the emission limits in Table 2 to this subpart.

(g) You must determine the weighted average emissions rate in units of the applicable emissions limit on a 30 group boiler operating day rolling average basis (or, if applicable, on a 90 group boiler operating day rolling average basis for Hg) according to paragraphs (g)(1) and (2) of this section. The first averaging period ends on the 30th (or, if applicable, 90th for the alternate Hg emission limit) group boiler operating day after the date that you begin emissions averaging.

(1) You must use Equation 2a or 3a of paragraph (b) of this section to calculate the weighted average emissions rate using the actual heat input or gross output for each existing unit participating in the emissions averaging option.

(2) If you are not capable of monitoring heat input or gross output, you may use Equation 2b or 3b of paragraph (b) of this section as an alternative to using Equation 2a of paragraph (b) of this section to calculate the average weighted emission rate using the actual steam generation from the units participating in the emissions averaging option.
