
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10009 May I use emissions averaging to comply with this subpart?
######## Common stack requirements.

(k)For a group of two or more existing affected units, each of which vents through a single common stack, you may average emissions to demonstrate compliance with the limits in Table 2 to this subpart if you satisfy the requirements in paragraph (l) or (m) of this section.

(l) For a group of two or more existing units in the same subcategory and which vent through a common emissions control system to a common stack that does not receive emissions from units in other subcategories or categories, you may treat such averaging group as a single existing unit for purposes of this subpart and comply with the requirements of this subpart as if the group were a single unit.

(m) For all other groups of units subject to paragraph (k) of this section, you may elect to conduct manual performance tests according to procedures specified in ยง 63.10007 in the common stack. If emissions from affected units included in the emissions averaging and from other units not included in the emissions averaging (e.g., in a different subcategory) or other nonaffected units all vent to the common stack, you must shut down the units not included in the emissions averaging and the nonaffected units or vent their emissions to a different stack during the performance test. Alternatively, you may conduct a performance test of the combined emissions in the common stack with all units operating and show that the combined emissions meet the most stringent emissions limit. You may also use a CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring to apply this latter alternative to demonstrate that the combined emissions comply with the most stringent emissions limit on a continuous basis.

(n) Combination requirements. The common stack of a group of two or more existing EGUs in the same subcategory subject to paragraph (k) of this section may be treated as a single stack for purposes of paragraph (c) of this section and included in an emissions averaging group subject to paragraph (c) of this section.
