
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10009 May I use emissions averaging to comply with this subpart?
######## General eligibility.

(a)(1) You may use emissions averaging as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section as an alternative to meeting the requirements of § 63.9991 for filterable PM, SO, HF, HCl, non-Hg HAP metals, or Hg on an EGU-specific basis if:

(i) You have more than one existing EGU in the same subcategory located at one or more contiguous properties, belonging to a single major industrial grouping, which are under common control of the same person (or persons under common control); and

(ii) You use CEMS (or sorbent trap monitoring systems for determining Hg emissions) or quarterly emissions testing for demonstrating compliance.

(2) You may demonstrate compliance by emissions averaging among the existing EGUs in the same subcategory, if your averaged Hg emissions for EGUs in the "unit designed for coal ≥8,300 Btu/lb" subcategory are equal to or less than 1.2 lb/TBtu or 1.3E-2 lb/GWh on a 30-boiler operating day basis or if your averaged emissions of individual, other pollutants from other subcategories of such EGUs are equal to or less than the applicable emissions limit in Table 2 to this subpart, according to the procedures in this section. Note that except for the alternate Hg emissions limit from EGUs in the "unit designed for coal ≥ 8,300 Btu/lb" subcategory, the averaging time for emissions averaging for pollutants is 30-group boiler operating days (rolling daily) using data from CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring (for Hg), or a combination of data from CEMS and emissions testing (for other pollutants). The averaging time for emissions averaging for the alternate Hg limit (equal to or less than 1.0 lb/TBtu or 1.1E-2 lb/GWh) from EGUs in the "unit designed for coal ≥ 8,300 Btu/lb" subcategory is 90-group boiler operating days (rolling daily) using data from CEMS, sorbent trap monitoring, or a combination of data from CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring. For the purposes of this paragraph, 30- (or 90-) group boiler operating days is defined as a period during which at least one unit in the emissions averaging group operates on each of the 30 or 90 days. You must calculate the weighted average emissions rate for the group in accordance with the procedures in this paragraph using the data from all units in the group including any that operate fewer than 30 (or 90) of the preceding 30- (or 90-) group boiler operating days.

(i) You may choose to have your EGU emissions averaging group meet either the heat input basis (MMBtu or TBtu, as appropriate for the pollutant) or gross output basis (MWh or GWh, as appropriate for the pollutant).

(ii) You may not mix bases within your EGU emissions averaging group.

(iii) You may use emissions averaging for affected units in different subcategories if the units vent to the atmosphere through a common stack (see paragraph (m) of this section).
