
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10007 What methods and other procedures must I use for the performance tests?
######## Default gross output.,i.e.,

(2)If you use CEMS to continuously monitor Hg, HCl, HF, SO, or PM emissions (or, if applicable, sorbent trap monitoring systems to continuously collect Hg emissions data), the following default value is available for use in the emission rate calculations during startup periods or shutdown periods (as defined in ยง 63.10042). For the purposes of this subpart, this default value is not considered to be substitute data. For a startup or shutdown hour in which there is heat input to an affected EGU but zero gross output, you must calculate the pollutant emission rate using a value equivalent to 5% of the maximum sustainable gross output, expressed in megawatts, as defined in section 6.5.2.1(a)(1) of appendix A to part 75 of this chapter. This default gross output is either the nameplate capacity of the EGU or the highest gross output observed in at least four representative quarters of EGU operation. For a monitored common stack, the default gross output is used only when all EGUs are operating (combusting fuel) are in startup or shutdown mode, and have zero electrical generation. Under those conditions, a default gross output equal to 5% of the combined maximum sustainable gross output of the EGUs that are operating but have a total of zero gross output must be used to calculate the hourly gross output-based pollutant emissions rate.

(g) Upon request, you shall make available to the EPA Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine whether the performance tests have been done according to the requirements of this section.
