
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10010 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## i.e.,

(b) If you use an oxygen (O) or carbon dioxide (CO) CEMS to convert measured pollutant concentrations to the units of the applicable emissions limit, the Oor COconcentrations shall be monitored at a location that represents emissions to the atmosphere,at the outlet of the EGU, downstream of all emission control devices. You must install, certify, maintain, and operate the CEMS according to part 75 of this chapter. Use only quality-assured Oor COdata in the emissions calculations; do not use part 75 substitute data values.

(c) If you are required to use a stack gas flow rate monitor, either for routine operation of a sorbent trap monitoring system or to convert pollutant concentrations to units of an electrical output-based emission standard in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must install, certify, operate, and maintain the monitoring system and conduct on-going quality-assurance testing of the system according to part 75 of this chapter. Use only unadjusted, quality-assured flow rate data in the emissions calculations. Do not apply bias adjustment factors to the flow rate data and do not use substitute flow rate data in the calculations.

(d) If you are required to make corrections for stack gas moisture content when converting pollutant concentrations to the units of an emission standard in Table 1 of 2 to this subpart, you must install, certify, operate, and maintain a moisture monitoring system in accordance with part 75 of this chapter. Alternatively, for coal-fired units, you may use appropriate fuel-specific default moisture values from § 75.11(b) of this chapter to estimate the moisture content of the stack gas or you may petition the Administrator under § 75.66 of this chapter for use of a default moisture value for non-coal-fired units. If you install and operate a moisture monitoring system, do not use substitute moisture data in the emissions calculations.

(e) If you use an HCl and/or HF CEMS, you must install, certify, operate, maintain, and quality-assure the data from the monitoring system in accordance with appendix B to this subpart. Calculate and record a 30-boiler operating day rolling average HCl or HF emission rate in the units of the standard, updated after each new boiler operating day. Each 30-boiler operating day rolling average emission rate is the average of all the valid hourly HCl or HF emission rates in the preceding 30 boiler operating days (see section 9.4 of appendix B to this subpart).

(f)(1) If you use an SOCEMS, you must install the monitor at the outlet of the EGU, downstream of all emission control devices, and you must certify, operate, and maintain the CEMS according to part 75 of this chapter.

(2) For on-going QA, the SOCEMS must meet the applicable daily, quarterly, and semiannual or annual requirements in sections 2.1 through 2.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, with the following addition: You must perform the linearity checks required in section 2.2 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter if the SOCEMS has a span value of 30 ppm or less.

(3) Calculate and record a 30-boiler operating day rolling average SOemission rate in the units of the standard, updated after each new boiler operating day. Each 30-boiler operating day rolling average emission rate is the average of all of the valid hourly SOemission rates in the 30 boiler operating day period.

(4) Use only unadjusted, quality-assured SOconcentration values in the emissions calculations; do not apply bias adjustment factors to the part 75 SOdata and do not use part 75 substitute data values. For startup or shutdown hours (as defined in § 63.10042) the default gross output and the diluent cap are available for use in the hourly SOemission rate calculations, as described in § 63.10007(f). Use a flag to identify each startup or shutdown hour and report a special code if the diluent cap or default gross output is used to calculate the SOemission rate for any of these hours.

(g) If you use a Hg CEMS or a sorbent trap monitoring system, you must install, certify, operate, maintain and quality-assure the data from the monitoring system in accordance with appendix A to this subpart. You must calculate and record a 30- (or, if alternate emissions averaging is used, 90-) boiler operating day rolling average Hg emission rate, in units of the standard, updated after each new boiler operating day. Each 30- (or, if alternate emissions averaging is used, 90-) boiler operating day rolling average emission rate, calculated according to section 6.2 of appendix A to the subpart, is the average of all of the valid hourly Hg emission rates in the preceding 30- (or, if alternate emissions averaging is used, a 90-) boiler operating days. Section 7.1.4.3 of appendix A to this subpart explains how to reduce sorbent trap monitoring system data to an hourly basis.

(h) If you use a PM CPMS to demonstrate continuous compliance with an operating limit, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate the PM CPMS and record the output of the system as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain your PM CPMS according to the procedures in your approved site-specific monitoring plan developed in accordance with § 63.10000(d), and meet the requirements in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The operating principle of the PM CPMS must be based on in-stack or extractive light scatter, light scintillation, beta attenuation, or mass accumulation detection of the exhaust gas or representative sample. The reportable measurement output from the PM CPMS may be expressed as milliamps, stack concentration, or other raw data signal.
