
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10010 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## i.e.

(ii) The PM CPMS must have a cycle time (, period required to complete sampling, measurement, and reporting for each measurement) no longer than 60 minutes.

(iii) The PM CPMS must be capable, at a minimum, of detecting and responding to particulate matter concentrations of 0.5 mg/acm.

(2) For a new unit, complete the initial PM CPMS performance evaluation no later than October 13, 2012 or 180 days after the date of initial startup, whichever is later. For an existing unit, complete the initial performance evaluation no later than October 13, 2015.

(3) Collect PM CPMS hourly average output data for all boiler operating hours except as indicated in paragraph (h)(5) of this section. Express the PM CPMS output as milliamps, PM concentration, or other raw data signal value.

(4) Calculate the arithmetic 30-boiler operating day rolling average of all of the hourly average PM CPMS output collected during all nonexempt boiler operating hours data (e.g., milliamps, PM concentration, raw data signal).

(5) You must collect data using the PM CPMS at all times the process unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, except for required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities (including, as applicable, calibration checks and required zero and span adjustments), and any scheduled maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(6) You must use all the data collected during all boiler operating hours in assessing the compliance with your operating limit except:

(i) Any data recorded during periods of monitoring system malfunctions or repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions. You must report any monitoring system malfunctions as deviations in your compliance reports under 40 CFR 63.10031(c) or (g) (as applicable);

(ii) Any data recorded during periods when the monitoring system is out-of-control (as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan), repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during out-of-control periods. You must report any such periods as deviations in your compliance reports under 40 CFR 63.10031(c) or (g) (as applicable);

(iii) Any data recorded during required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities that temporarily interrupt the measurement of output data from the PM CPMS; and

(iv) Any data recorded during periods of startup or shutdown.

(7) You must record and report the results of PM CPMS system performance audits, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(k). You must also record and make available upon request the dates and duration of periods from when the PM CPMS is out of control until completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the PM CPMS to operation consistent with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(i) If you choose to comply with the PM filterable emissions limit in lieu of metal HAP limits, you may choose to install, certify, operate, and maintain a PM CEMS and record and report the output of the PM CEMS as specified in paragraphs (i)(1) through (8) of this section. Compliance with the applicable PM emissions limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart is determined on a 30-boiler operating day rolling average basis.

(1) You must install and certify your PM CEMS according to section 4 of appendix C to this subpart.

(2) You must operate, maintain, and quality-assure the data from your PM CEMS according to section 5 of appendix C to this subpart.

(3) You must reduce the data from your PM CEMS to hourly averages in accordance with section 6.1 of appendix C to this subpart.

(4) You must collect data using the PM CEMS at all times the process unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (a) of this section, except for required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities and any scheduled maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(j) You may choose to comply with the metal HAP emissions limits using CEMS approved in accordance with ยง 63.7(f) as an alternative to the performance test method specified in this rule. If approved to use a HAP metals CEMS, the compliance limit will be expressed as a 30-boiler operating day rolling average of the numerical emissions limit value applicable for your unit in tables 1 or 2. If approved, you may choose to install, certify, operate, and maintain a HAP metals CEMS and record the output of the HAP metals CEMS as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (5) of this section.
