
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10010 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## e.g.,

(1)(i) Install, calibrate, operate, and maintain your HAP metals CEMS according to your CMS quality control program, as described in ยง 63.8(d)(2). The reportable measurement output from the HAP metals CEMS must be expressed in units of the applicable emissions limit (lb/MMBtu, lb/MWh) and in the form of a 30-boiler operating day rolling average.

(ii) Operate and maintain your HAP metals CEMS according to the procedures and criteria in your site specific performance evaluation and quality control program plan required in ยง 63.8(d).

(2) Collect HAP metals CEMS hourly average output data for all boiler operating hours except as indicated in section (j)(4) of this section.

(3) Calculate the arithmetic 30-boiler operating day rolling average of all of the hourly average HAP metals CEMS output data collected during all nonexempt boiler operating hours data.

(4) You must collect data using the HAP metals CEMS at all times the process unit is operating and at the intervals specified in paragraph (a) of this section, except for required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities, and any scheduled maintenance as defined in your site-specific monitoring plan.

(i) You must use all the data collected during all boiler operating hours in assessing the compliance with your emission limit except:

(A) Any data collected during periods of monitoring system malfunctions and repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions. You must report any monitoring system malfunctions as deviations in your compliance reports under 40 CFR 63.10031(c) or (g) (as applicable);

(B) Any data collected during periods when the monitoring system is out of control as specified in your site-specific monitoring plan, repairs associated with periods when the monitoring system is out of control, or required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities conducted during out-of-control periods. You must report any out of control periods as deviations in your compliance reports under 40 CFR 63.10031(c) or (g) (as applicable);
