
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10021 How do I demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limitations, operating limits, and work practice standards?

(a) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with each emissions limit, operating limit, and work practice standard in Tables 1 through 4 to this subpart that applies to you, according to the monitoring specified in Tables 6 and 7 to this subpart and paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(b) Except as otherwise provided in § 63.10020(c), if you use a CEMS to measure SO, PM, HCl, HF, or Hg emissions, or using a sorbent trap monitoring system to measure Hg emissions, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly data recorded by the CEMS (or sorbent trap monitoring system) and the other required monitoring systems (e.g., flow rate, CO, O, or moisture systems) to calculate the arithmetic average emissions rate in units of the standard on a continuous 30-boiler operating day (or, if alternate emissions averaging is used for Hg, 90-boiler operating day) rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new boiler operating day. Use Equation 8 to determine the 30- (or, if applicable, 90-) boiler operating day rolling average.

(c) If you use a PM CPMS data to measure compliance with an operating limit in Table 4 to this subpart, you must record the PM CPMS output data for all periods when the process is operating and the PM CPMS is not out-of-control. You must demonstrate continuous compliance by using all quality-assured hourly average data collected by the PM CPMS for all operating hours to calculate the arithmetic average operating parameter in units of the operating limit (e.g., milliamps, PM concentration, raw data signal) on a 30 operating day rolling average basis, updated at the end of each new boiler operating day. Use Equation 9 to determine the 30 boiler operating day average.

(1) For any exceedance of the 30-boiler operating day PM CPMS average value from the established operating parameter limit for an EGU subject to the emissions limits in Table 1 to this subpart, you must:

(i) Within 48 hours of the exceedance, visually inspect the air pollution control device (APCD);

(ii) If the inspection of the APCD identifies the cause of the exceedance, take corrective action as soon as possible, and return the PM CPMS measurement to within the established value; and

(iii) Within 45 days of the exceedance or at the time of the annual compliance test, whichever comes first, conduct a PM emissions compliance test to determine compliance with the PM emissions limit and to verify or re-establish the CPMS operating limit. You are not required to conduct any additional testing for any exceedances that occur between the time of the original exceedance and the PM emissions compliance test required under this paragraph.

(2) PM CPMS exceedances of the operating limit for an EGU subject to the emissions limits in Table 1 of this subpart leading to more than four required performance tests in a 12-month period (rolling monthly) constitute a separate violation of this subpart.

(d) If you use quarterly performance testing to demonstrate compliance with one or more applicable emissions limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you

(1) May skip performance testing in those quarters during which less than 168 boiler operating hours occur, except that a performance test must be conducted at least once every calendar year.

(2) Must conduct the performance test as defined in Table 5 to this subpart and calculate the results of the testing in units of the applicable emissions standard; and

(3) Must conduct site-specific monitoring using CMS to demonstrate compliance with the site-specific monitoring requirements in Table 7 to this subpart pertaining to HCl and HF emissions from a liquid oil-fired EGU to ensure compliance with the HCl and HF emission limits in Tables 1 and 2 to this subpart, in accordance with the requirements of § 63.10000(c)(2)(iii). The monitoring must meet the general operating requirements provided in § 63.10020.

(e) Conduct periodic performance tune-ups of your EGU(s), as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (9) of this section. For your first tune-up, you may perform the burner inspection any time prior to the tune-up or you may delay the first burner inspection until the next scheduled EGU outage provided you meet the requirements of § 63.10005. Subsequently, you must perform an inspection of the burner at least once every 36 calendar months unless your EGU employs neural network combustion optimization during normal operations in which case you must perform an inspection of the burner and combustion controls at least once every 48 calendar months. If your EGU is offline when a deadline to perform the tune-up passes, you shall perform the tune-up work practice requirements within 30 days after the re-start of the affected unit.

(1) As applicable, inspect the burner and combustion controls, and clean or replace any components of the burner or combustion controls as necessary upon initiation of the work practice program and at least once every required inspection period. Repair of a burner or combustion control component requiring special order parts may be scheduled as follows:

(i) Burner or combustion control component parts needing replacement that affect the ability to optimize NOand CO must be installed within 3 calendar months after the burner inspection,

(ii) Burner or combustion control component parts that do not affect the ability to optimize NOand CO may be installed on a schedule determined by the operator;

(2) As applicable, inspect the flame pattern and make any adjustments to the burner or combustion controls necessary to optimize the flame pattern. The adjustment should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, if available, or in accordance with best combustion engineering practice for that burner type;

(3) As applicable, observe the damper operations as a function of mill and/or cyclone loadings, cyclone and pulverizer coal feeder loadings, or other pulverizer and coal mill performance parameters, making adjustments and effecting repair to dampers, controls, mills, pulverizers, cyclones, and sensors;

(4) As applicable, evaluate windbox pressures and air proportions, making adjustments and effecting repair to dampers, actuators, controls, and sensors;

(5) Inspect the system controlling the air-to-fuel ratio and ensure that it is correctly calibrated and functioning properly. Such inspection may include calibrating excess Oprobes and/or sensors, adjusting overfire air systems, changing software parameters, and calibrating associated actuators and dampers to ensure that the systems are operated as designed. Any component out of calibration, in or near failure, or in a state that is likely to negate combustion optimization efforts prior to the next tune-up, should be corrected or repaired as necessary;

(6) Optimize combustion to minimize generation of CO and NO. This optimization should be consistent with the manufacturer's specifications, if available, or best combustion engineering practice for the applicable burner type. NOoptimization includes burners, overfire air controls, concentric firing system improvements, neural network or combustion efficiency software, control systems calibrations, adjusting combustion zone temperature profiles, and add-on controls such as SCR and SNCR; CO optimization includes burners, overfire air controls, concentric firing system improvements, neural network or combustion efficiency software, control systems calibrations, and adjusting combustion zone temperature profiles;

(7) While operating at full load or the predominantly operated load, measure the concentration in the effluent stream of CO and NOin ppm, by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, before and after the tune-up adjustments are made (measurements may be either on a dry or wet basis, as long as it is the same basis before and after the adjustments are made). You may use portable CO, NOand Omonitors for this measurement. EGU's employing neural network optimization systems need only provide a single pre- and post-tune-up value rather than continual values before and after each optimization adjustment made by the system;

(8) Maintain on-site and submit, if requested by the Administrator, an annual report containing the information in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(9) of this section including:

(i) The concentrations of CO and NOin the effluent stream in ppm by volume, and oxygen in volume percent, measured before and after an adjustment of the EGU combustion systems;

(ii) A description of any corrective actions taken as a part of the combustion adjustment; and

(iii) The type(s) and amount(s) of fuel used over the 12 calendar months prior to an adjustment, but only if the unit was physically and legally capable of using more than one type of fuel during that period; and

(9) Prior to January 1, 2024, report the tune-up date electronically, in a PDF file, in your semiannual compliance report, as specified in 40 CFR 63.10031(f)(4) and (6) and, if requested by the Administrator, in hard copy, as specified in 40 CFR 63.10031(f)(5). On and after January 1, 2024, report the tune-up date electronically in your quarterly compliance report, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(g) and section 10.2 of appendix E to this subpart. The tune-up report date is the date when tune-up requirements in paragraphs (e)(6) and (7) of this section are completed.

(f) You must submit the applicable reports and notifications required under 40 CFR 63.10031(a) through (k) to the Administrator electronically, using EPA's Emissions Collection and Monitoring Plan System (ECMPS) Client Tool. If the final date of any time period (or any deadline) for any of these submissions falls on a weekend or a Federal holiday, the time period shall be extended to the next business day. Moreover, if the EPA Host System supporting the ECMPS Client Tool is offline and unavailable for submission of reports for any part of a day when a report would otherwise be due, the deadline for reporting is automatically extended until the first business day on which the system becomes available following the outage. Use of the ECMPS Client Tool to submit a report or notification required under this subpart satisfies any requirement under subpart A of this part to submit that same report or notification (or the information contained in it) to the appropriate EPA Regional office or state agency whose delegation request has been approved.

(g) You must report each instance in which you did not meet an applicable emissions limit or operating limit in Tables 1 through 4 to this subpart or failed to conduct a required tune-up. These instances are deviations from the requirements of this subpart. These deviations must be reported according to § 63.10031.

(h) You must follow the startup or shutdown requirements as given in Table 3 to this subpart for each coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU.

(1) You may use the diluent cap and default gross output values, as described in § 63.10007(f), during startup periods or shutdown periods.

(2) You must operate all CMS, collect data, calculate pollutant emission rates, and record data during startup periods or shutdown periods.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) You may choose to submit an alternative non-opacity emission standard, in accordance with the requirements contained in § 63.10011(g)(4). Until promulgation in theof the final alternative non-opacity emission standard, you shall comply with paragraph (1) of the definition of "startup" in § 63.10042.

(i) If you are relying on paragraph 2 of the definition of startup in 40 CFR 63.10042, you must provide reports concerning activities and periods of startup and shutdown that occur on or prior to January 1, 2024, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5), in your semiannual compliance report. For startup and shutdown incidents that occur on and after January 1, 2024, you must provide the applicable information referenced in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5)(ii) and 40 CFR 63.10020(e) quarterly, in PDF files, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(i).
