
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10011 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limits and work practice standards?
######## e.g.,

(c)(1) If you use CEMS or sorbent trap monitoring systems to measure a HAP (Hg or HCl) directly, the initial performance test, shall consist of a 30-boiler operating day (or, for certain coal-fired, existing EGUs that use emissions averaging for Hg, a 90-boiler operating day) rolling average emissions rate obtained with a certified CEMS or sorbent trap system, expressed in units of the standard. If the monitoring system is certified prior to the applicable compliance date, the initial averaging period shall either begin with: The first boiler operating day on or after the compliance date; or 30 (or, if applicable, 90) boiler operating days prior to that date, as described in § 63.10005(b). In all cases, the initial 30- or 90-boiler operating day averaging period must be completed on or before the date that compliance must be demonstrated, in accordance with § 63.9984(f). Initial compliance is demonstrated if the results of the performance test meet the applicable emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.

(2) For an EGU that uses a CEMS to measure SOor PM emissions for initial compliance, the initial performance test shall consist of a 30-boiler operating day average emission rate obtained with certified CEMS, expressed in units of the standard. If the monitoring system is certified prior to the applicable compliance date, the initial averaging period shall either begin with: The first boiler operating day on or after the compliance date; or 30 boiler operating days prior to that date, as described in § 63.10005(b). In all cases, the initial 30- boiler operating day averaging period must be completed on or before the date that compliance must be demonstrated, in accordance with § 63.9984(f). Initial compliance is demonstrated if the results of the performance test meet the applicable SOor PM emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.

(d) For candidate LEE units, use the results of the performance testing described in § 63.10005(h) to determine initial compliance with the applicable emission limit(s) in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and to determine whether the unit qualifies for LEE status.

(e) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(f)(4) or (h), as applicable, containing the results of the initial compliance demonstration, as specified in 40 CFR 63.10030(e).
