
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.10011 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limits and work practice standards?
######## i.e.

(f)(1) You must determine the fuel whose combustion produces the least uncontrolled emissions,, the cleanest fuel, either natural gas or distillate oil, that is available on site or accessible nearby for use during periods of startup or shutdown.

(2) Your cleanest fuel, either natural gas or distillate oil, for use during periods of startup or shutdown determination may take safety considerations into account.

(g) You must follow the startup or shutdown requirements as established in Table 3 to this subpart for each coal-fired, liquid oil-fired, or solid oil-derived fuel-fired EGU.

(1) You may use the diluent cap and default gross output values, as described in § 63.10007(f), during startup periods or shutdown periods.

(2) You must operate all CMS, collect data, calculate pollutant emission rates, and record data during startup periods or shutdown periods.

(3) You must report the emissions data recorded during startup and shutdown. If you are relying on paragraph (2) of the definition of startup in 40 CFR 63.10042, then for startup and shutdown incidents that occur on or prior to December 31, 2023, you must also report the applicable supplementary information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5) in the semiannual compliance report. For startup and shutdown incidents that occur on or after January 1, 2024, you must provide the applicable information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5)(ii) and 40 CFR 63.10020(e) quarterly, in PDF files, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(i).

(4) If you choose to use paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in § 63.10042 and you find that you are unable to safely engage and operate your particulate matter (PM) control(s) within 1 hour of first firing of coal, residual oil, or solid oil-derived fuel, you may choose to rely on paragraph (1) of definition of "startup" in § 63.10042 or you may submit a request to use an alternative non-opacity emissions standard, as described below.

(i) As mentioned in § 63.6(g)(1), your request will be published in thefor notice and comment rulemaking. Until promulgation in theof the final alternative non-opacity emission standard, you shall comply with paragraph (1) of the definition of "startup" in § 63.10042. You shall not implement the alternative non-opacity emissions standard until promulgation in theof the final alternative non-opacity emission standard.

(ii) Your request need not address the items contained in § 63.6(g)(2).

(iii) Your request shall provide evidence of a documented manufacturer-identified safety issue.

(iv) Your request shall provide information to document that the PM control device is adequately designed and sized to meet the PM emission limit applicable to the EGU.

(v) In addition, your request shall contain documentation that:

(A) Your EGU is using clean fuels to the maximum extent possible, taking into account considerations such as not compromising boiler or control device integrity, to bring your EGU and PM control device up to the temperature necessary to alleviate or prevent the identified safety issues prior to the combustion of primary fuel in your EGU;

(B) You have followed explicitly your EGU manufacturer's procedures to alleviate or prevent the identified safety issue; and

(C) You have identified with specificity the details of your EGU manufacturer's statement of concern.

(vi) Your request shall specify the other work practice standards you will take to limit HAP emissions during startup periods and shutdown periods to ensure a control level consistent with the work practice standards of the final rule.

(vii) You must comply with all other work practice requirements, including but not limited to data collection, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements.
