
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Testing and Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10010 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## e.g.,

(C) Any data recorded during required monitoring system quality assurance or quality control activities that temporarily interrupt the measurement of emissions (calibrations, certain audits, routine probe maintenance); and

(D) Any data recorded during periods of startup or shutdown.

(ii) You must record and report the results of HAP metals CEMS system performance audits, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(k). You must also record and make available upon request the dates and duration of periods when the HAP metals CEMS is out of control to completion of the corrective actions necessary to return the HAP metals CEMS to operation consistent with your site-specific performance evaluation and quality control program plan.

(k) If you demonstrate compliance with the HCl and HF emission limits for a liquid oil-fired EGU by conducting quarterly testing, you must also develop a site-specific monitoring plan as provided for in ยง 63.10000(c)(2)(iii) and Table 7 to this subpart.

(l) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in ยง 63.10042 for your EGU, you must install, verify, operate, maintain, and quality assure each monitoring system necessary for demonstrating compliance with the PM or non-mercury metals work practice standards required to comply with ยง 63.10020(e).

(1) You shall develop a site-specific monitoring plan for PM or non-mercury metals work practice monitoring during startup periods.

(2) You shall submit the site-specific monitoring plan upon request by the Administrator.

(3) The provisions of the monitoring plan must address the following items:

(i) Monitoring system installation;

(ii) Performance and equipment specifications;

(iii) Schedule for initial and periodic performance evaluations;

(iv) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria;

(v) On-going operation and maintenance procedures; and

(vi) On-going recordkeeping and reporting procedures.

(4) You may rely on monitoring system specifications or instructions or manufacturer's specifications to address paragraphs (l)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(5) You must operate and maintain the monitoring system according to the site-specific monitoring plan.
