
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10023 How do I establish my PM CPMS operating limit and determine compliance with it?
######## x,y

(B) Determine your PM CPMS instrument average () in milliamps, and the average of your corresponding three PM compliance test runs (), using equation 10.

(C) With your PM CPMS instrument zero expressed in milliamps, your three run average PM CPMS milliamp value, and your three run average PM emissions value (in lb/MWh) from your compliance runs, determine a relationship of PM lb/MWh per milliamp with equation 11.

(D) Determine your source specific 30-day rolling average operating limit using the PM lb/MWh per milliamp value from equation 11 in equation 12, below. This sets your operating limit at the PM CPMS output value corresponding to 75 percent of your emission limit.

(ii) If your PM compliance test demonstrates your PM emissions exceed 75 percent of your emissions limit, you will use the average PM CPMS value recorded during the PM compliance test demonstrating compliance with the PM limit to establish your operating limit.

(A) Determine your operating limit by averaging the PM CPMS milliamp output corresponding to your three PM performance test runs that demonstrate compliance with the emission limit using equation 13.

(iii) Your PM CPMS must provide a 4-20 milliamp output and the establishment of its relationship to manual reference method measurements must be determined in units of milliamps.

(iv) Your PM CPMS operating range must be capable of reading PM concentrations from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit. If your PM CPMS is an auto-ranging instrument capable of multiple scales, the primary range of the instrument must be capable of reading PM concentration from zero to a level equivalent to two times your allowable emission limit.

(v) During the initial performance test or any such subsequent performance test that demonstrates compliance with the PM limit, record and average all milliamp output values from the PM CPMS for the periods corresponding to the compliance test runs.

(vi) For PM performance test reports used to set a PM CPMS operating limit, the electronic submission of the test report must also include the make and model of the PM CPMS instrument, serial number of the instrument, analytical principle of the instrument (e.g. beta attenuation), span of the instruments primary analytical range, milliamp value equivalent to the instrument zero output, technique by which this zero value was determined, and the average milliamp signal corresponding to each PM compliance test run.

(c) You must operate and maintain your process and control equipment such that the 30 operating day average PM CPMS output does not exceed the operating limit determined in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
