
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.10030 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b) and (c), 63.8 (e), (f)(4) and (6), and 63.9 (b) through (h) that apply to you by the dates specified.

(b) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you startup your EGU that is an affected source before April 16, 2012, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 days after April 16, 2012.

(c) As specified in § 63.9(b)(4) and (b)(5), if you startup your new or reconstructed EGU that is an affected source on or after April 16, 2012, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 15 days after the actual date of startup of the EGU that is an affected source.

(d) When you are required to conduct a performance test, you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 30 days before the performance test is scheduled to begin.

(e) When you are required to conduct an initial compliance demonstration as specified in § 63.10011(a), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). The Notification of Compliance Status report must contain all of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section, that applies to your initial compliance strategy.

(1) A description of the affected source(s), including identification of the subcategory of the source, the design capacity of the source, a description of the add-on controls used on the source, description of the fuel(s) burned, including whether the fuel(s) were determined by you or EPA through a petition process to be a non-waste under 40 CFR 241.3, whether the fuel(s) were processed from discarded non-hazardous secondary materials within the meaning of 40 CFR 241.3, and justification for the selection of fuel(s) burned during the performance test.

(2) Summary of the results of all performance tests and fuel analyses and calculations conducted to demonstrate initial compliance including all established operating limits.

(3) Identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance with each applicable emission limit through performance testing; fuel moisture analyses; performance testing with operating limits (e.g., use of PM CPMS); CEMS; or a sorbent trap monitoring system.

(4) Identification of whether you plan to demonstrate compliance by emissions averaging.

(5) A signed certification that you have met all applicable emission limits and work practice standards.

(6) If you had a deviation from any emission limit, work practice standard, or operating limit, you must also submit a brief description of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, emissions point identification, and the cause of the deviation in the Notification of Compliance Status report.

(7) Except for requests to switch from one emission limit to another, as provided in paragraph (e)(7)(iii) of this section, your initial notification of compliance status shall also include the following information:

(i) [Reserved]

(ii) Certifications of compliance, as applicable, and must be signed by a responsible official stating:

(A) "This EGU complies with the requirements in § 63.10021(a) to demonstrate continuous compliance." and

(B) "No secondary materials that are solid waste were combusted in any affected unit."
