
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.10032 What records must I keep?
######## e.g.,

(a) You must keep records according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. If you are required to (or elect to) continuously monitor Hg and/or HCl and/or HF and/or PM emissions, or if you elect to use a PM CPMS, you must keep the records required under appendix A and/or appendix B and/or appendix C and/or appendix D to this subpart. If you elect to conduct periodic (quarterly or annual) performance stack tests, then, for each test completed on or after January 1, 2024, you must keep records of the applicable data elements under 40 CFR 63.7(g). You must also keep records of all data elements and other information in appendix E to this subpart that apply to your compliance strategy.

(1) In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), a copy of each notification or report that you submit to comply with this subpart. You must also keep records of all supporting documentation for the initial Notifications of Compliance Status, semiannual compliance reports, or quarterly compliance reports that you submit.

(2) Records of performance stack tests, fuel analyses, or other compliance demonstrations and performance evaluations, as required in ยง 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(b) For each CEMS and CPMS, you must keep records according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Records described in ยง 63.10(b)(2)(vi) through (xi).
