
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.10031 What reports must I submit and when?
######## i.e.,,i.e.,

(C) An hourly SOemission rate data stream, in units of the standard (lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh, as applicable), calculated according to 40 CFR 63.10007(e) and (f)(1), rounded to the same precision as the emission standard (with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place), expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged;

(D) The results of all required daily quality-assurance tests of the SOmonitor and the additional monitors used to convert SOconcentration to units of the standard, as specified in appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; and

(E) A compliance certification, which includes a statement, based on reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that all SOemissions from the affected EGUs under this subpart have been correctly and fully monitored, by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete. You must submit such a compliance certification statement in support of each quarterly report.

(b) You must submit semiannual compliance reports according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in 40 CFR 63.9984 (or, if applicable, the extended compliance date approved under 40 CFR 63.6(i)(4)) and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date that occurs at least 180 days after the compliance date that is specified for your source in 40 CFR 63.9984 (or, if applicable, the extended compliance date approved under 40 CFR 63.6(i)(4)).

(2) The first compliance report must be submitted electronically no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in 40 CFR 63.9984 (or, if applicable, the extended compliance date approved under 40 CFR 63.6(i)(4)).

(3) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(4) Each subsequent compliance report must be submitted electronically no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(5) For each affected source that is subject to permitting regulations pursuant to part 70 or part 71 of this chapter, and if the permitting authority has established dates for submitting semiannual reports pursuant to 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), through the reporting period that ends December 31, 2023, you may submit the first and subsequent compliance reports according to the dates the permitting authority has established instead of according to the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(6) The final semiannual compliance report shall cover the reporting period from July 1, 2023, through December 31, 2023. Quarterly compliance reports shall be submitted thereafter, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, starting with a report covering the first calendar quarter of 2024.

(c) The semiannual compliance report must contain the information required in paragraphs (c)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) The information required by the summary report located in 63.10(e)(3)(vi).

(2) The total fuel use by each affected source subject to an emission limit, for each calendar month within the semiannual reporting period, including, but not limited to, a description of the fuel, whether the fuel has received a non-waste determination by EPA or your basis for concluding that the fuel is not a waste, and the total fuel usage amount with units of measure.

(3) Indicate whether you burned new types of fuel during the reporting period. If you did burn new types of fuel you must include the date of the performance test where that fuel was in use.

(4) Include the date of the most recent tune-up for each EGU. The date of the tune-up is the date the tune-up provisions specified in § 63.10021(e)(6) and (7) were completed.

(5) Should you choose to rely on paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in § 63.10042 for your EGU, for each instance of startup or shutdown you shall:

(i) Include the maximum clean fuel storage capacity and the maximum hourly heat input that can be provided for each clean fuel determined according to the requirements of § 63.10032(f).

(ii) Include the information required to be monitored, collected, or recorded according to the requirements of § 63.10020(e).

(iii)-(v) [Reserved]

(6) You must report emergency bypass information annually from EGUs with LEE status.

(7) A summary of the results of the annual performance tests and documentation of any operating limits that were reestablished during the test, if applicable. If you are conducting stack tests once every 3 years to maintain LEE status, consistent with § 63.10006(b), the date of each stack test conducted during the previous 3 years, a comparison of emission level you achieved in each stack test conducted during the previous 3 years to the 50 percent emission limit threshold required in § 63.10005(h)(1)(i), and a statement as to whether there have been any operational changes since the last stack test that could increase emissions.

(8) A certification.

(9) If you have a deviation from any emission limit, work practice standard, or operating limit, you must also submit a brief description of the deviation, the duration of the deviation, emissions point identification, and the cause of the deviation.

(10) If you had any process or control equipment malfunction(s) during the reporting period, you must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the semiannual reporting period which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded.

(d) Excess emissions and deviation reporting. For EGUs whose owners or operators rely on a CMS to comply with an emissions or operating limit, the semiannual compliance reports described in paragraph (c) of this section must include the excess emissions and monitor downtime summary report described in 40 CFR 63.10(e)(3)(vi). However, starting with the first calendar quarter of 2024, reporting of the information under 40 CFR 63.10(e)(3)(vi) (and under paragraph (e)(3)(v), if the applicable excess emissions and/or monitor downtime threshold is exceeded) is discontinued for all CMS, and you must, instead, include in the quarterly compliance reports described in paragraph (g) of this section the applicable data elements in section 13 of appendix E to this subpart for any "deviation" (as defined in 40 CFR 63.10042 and elsewhere in this subpart) that occurred during the calendar quarter. If there were no deviations, you must include a statement to that effect in the quarterly compliance report.

(e) Each affected source that has obtained a title V operating permit pursuant to part 70 or part 71 of this chapter must report all deviations as defined in this subpart in the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A). If an affected source submits a semiannual compliance report pursuant to paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, or two quarterly compliance reports covering the appropriate calendar half pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section, along with, or as part of, the semiannual monitoring report required by 40 CFR 70.6(a)(3)(iii)(A) or 40 CFR 71.6(a)(3)(iii)(A), and the compliance report(s) includes all required information concerning deviations from any emission limit, operating limit, or work practice requirement in this subpart, submission of the compliance report(s) satisfies any obligation to report the same deviations in the semiannual monitoring report. Submission of the compliance report(s) does not otherwise affect any obligation the affected source may have to report deviations from permit requirements to the permit authority.

(f) For each performance stack test completed prior to January 1, 2024, (including 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day Hg LEE demonstration tests and PM tests to establish operating limits for PM CPMS), you must submit a PDF test report in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, no later than 60 days after the date on which the testing is completed. For each test completed on or after January 1, 2024, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(g), submit the applicable reference method information in sections 17 through 31 of appendix E to this subpart along with the quarterly compliance report for the calendar quarter in which the test was completed.

(1) For each RATA of an Hg, HCl, HF, or SOmonitoring system completed prior to January 1, 2024, and for each PM CEMS correlation test, each relative response audit (RRA) and each response correlation audit (RCA) of a PM CEMS completed prior to that date, you must submit a PDF test report in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, no later than 60 days after the date on which the test is completed. For each SOor Hg RATA completed on or after January 1, 2024, you must submit the applicable reference method information in sections 17 through 31 of appendix E to this subpart prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly emissions report. For HCl or HF RATAs, and for correlation tests, RRAs, and RCAs of PM CEMS that are completed on or after January 1, 2024, submit the appendix E reference method information together with the summarized electronic test results, in accordance with section 11.4 of appendix B to this subpart or section 7.2.4 of appendix C to this part, as applicable.

(2) If, for a particular EGU or a group of EGUs serving a common stack, you have elected to demonstrate compliance using a PM CEMS, an approved HAP metals CEMS, or a PM CPMS, you must submit quarterly PDF reports in accordance with paragraph (f)(6) of this section, which include all of the 30-boiler operating day rolling average emission rates derived from the CEMS data or the 30-boiler operating day rolling average responses derived from the PM CPMS data (as applicable). The quarterly reports are due within 60 days after the reporting periods ending on March 31st, June 30th, September 30th, and December 31st. Submission of these quarterly reports in PDF files shall end with the report that covers the fourth calendar quarter of 2023. Beginning with the first calendar quarter of 2024, the compliance averages shall no longer be reported separately, but shall be incorporated into the quarterly compliance reports described in paragraph (g) of this section. In addition to the compliance averages for PM CEMS, PM CPMS, and/or HAP metals CEMS, the quarterly compliance reports described in paragraph (g) of this section must also include the 30- (or, if applicable 90-) boiler operating day rolling average emission rates for Hg, HCl, HF, and/or SO, if you have elected to (or are required to) continuously monitor these pollutants. Further, if your EGU or common stack is in an averaging plan, your quarterly compliance reports must identify all of the EGUs or common stacks in the plan and must include all of the 30- (or 90-) group boiler operating day rolling weighted average emission rates (WAERs) for the averaging group.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) You must submit semiannual compliance reports as required under paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, ending with a report covering the semiannual period from July 1 through December 31, 2023, and Notifications of Compliance Status as required under section 63.10030(e), as PDF files. Quarterly compliance reports shall be submitted in XML format thereafter, in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section, starting with a report covering the first calendar quarter of 2024.

(5) All reports required by this subpart not subject to the requirements in paragraphs (f) introductory text and (f)(1) through (4) of this section must be sent to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13. If acceptable to both the Administrator and the owner or operator of an EGU, these reports may be submitted on electronic media. The Administrator retains the right to require submittal of reports subject to paragraphs (f) introductory text and (f)(1) through (4) of this section in paper format.

(6) All reports and notifications described in paragraphs (f) introductory text, (f)(1), (2), and (4) of this section shall be submitted to the EPA in the specified format and at the specified frequency, using the ECMPS Client Tool. Each PDF version of a stack test report, CEMS RATA report, PM CEMS correlation test report, RRA report, and RCA report must include sufficient information to assess compliance and to demonstrate that the reference method testing was done properly. Note that EPA will continue to accept, as necessary, PDF reports that are being phased out at the end of 2023, if the submission deadlines for those reports extend beyond December 31, 2023. The following data elements must be entered into the ECMPS Client Tool at the time of submission of each PDF file:

(i) The facility name, physical address, mailing address (if different from the physical address), and county;

(ii) The ORIS code (or equivalent ID number assigned by EPA's Clean Air Markets Division (CAMD)) and the Facility Registry System (FRS) ID;

(iii) The EGU (or EGUs) to which the report applies. Report the EGU IDs as they appear in the CAMD Business System;

(iv) If any of the EGUs in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section share a common stack, indicate which EGUs share the stack. If emissions data are monitored and reported at the common stack according to part 75 of this chapter, report the ID number of the common stack as it is represented in the electronic monitoring plan required under § 75.53 of this chapter;

(v) If any of the EGUs described in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section are in an averaging plan under § 63.10009, indicate which EGUs are in the plan and whether it is a 30- or 90-day averaging plan;
