
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Notification, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.10031 What reports must I submit and when?
######## e.g.,

(vi) The identification of each emission point to which the report applies. An "emission point" is a point at which source effluent is released to the atmosphere, and is either a dedicated stack that serves one of the EGUs identified in paragraph (f)(6)(iii) of this section or a common stack that serves two or more of those EGUs. To identify an emission point, associate it with the EGU or stack ID in the CAMD Business system or the electronic monitoring plan ("Unit 2 stack," "common stack CS001," or "multiple stack MS001");

(vii) An indication of the type of PDF report or notification being submitted;

(viii) The pollutant(s) being addressed in the report;

(ix) The reporting period being covered by the report (if applicable);

(x) The relevant test method that was performed for a performance test (if applicable);

(xi) The date the performance test was completed (if applicable) and the test number (if applicable); and

(xii) The responsible official's name, title, and phone number.

(g) Starting with a report for the first calendar quarter of 2024, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit quarterly electronic compliance reports. Each quarterly compliance report shall include the applicable data elements in sections 2 through 13 of appendix E to this subpart. For each stack test summarized in the compliance report, you must also submit the applicable reference method information in sections 17 through 31 of appendix E to this subpart. The compliance reports and associated appendix E information must be submitted no later than 60 days after the end of each calendar quarter.

(h) On and after January 1, 2024, initial Notifications of Compliance Status (if any) shall be submitted in accordance with 40 CFR 63.9(h)(2)(ii), as PDF files, using the ECMPS Client Tool. The applicable data elements in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with each Notification.

(i) If you have elected to use paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in 40 CFR 63.10042, then, for startup and shutdown incidents that occur on or prior to December 31, 2023, you must include the information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5) in the semiannual compliance report, in a PDF file. If you have elected to use paragraph (2) of the definition of "startup" in 40 CFR 63.10042, then, for startup and shutdown event(s) that occur on or after January 1, 2024, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit the information in 40 CFR 63.10031(c)(5) and 40 CFR 63.10020(e) along with each quarterly compliance report, in a PDF file, starting with a report for the first calendar quarter of 2024. The applicable data elements in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with each startup and shutdown report.

(j) If you elect to use a certified PM CEMS to monitor PM emissions continuously to demonstrate compliance with this subpart and have begun recording valid data from the PM CEMS prior to November 9, 2020, you must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit a detailed report of your PS 11 correlation test (see appendix B to part 60 of this chapter) in a PDF file no later than 60 days after that date. For a correlation test completed on or after November 9, 2020, but prior to January 1, 2024, you must submit the PDF report no later than 60 days after the date on which the test is completed. For a correlation test completed on or after January 1, 2024, you must submit the PDF report according to section 7.2.4 of appendix C to this subpart. The applicable data elements in paragraph (f)(6)(i) through (xii) of this section must be entered into ECMPS with the PDF report.
