
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.10041 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by U.S. EPA, or a delegated authority such as your state, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to your state, local, or tribal agency, then that agency (as well as the U.S. EPA) has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your state, local, or tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the EPA Administrator and are not transferred to the state, local, or tribal agency; moreover, the U.S. EPA retains oversight of this subpart and can take enforcement actions, as appropriate, with respect to any failure by any person to comply with any provision of this subpart.

(1) Approval of alternatives to the non-opacity emission limits and work practice standards in § 63.9991(a) and (b) under § 63.6(g).

(2) Approval of major change to test methods in Table 5 to this subpart under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f) and as defined in § 63.90, approval of minor and intermediate changes to monitoring performance specifications/procedures in Table 5 where the monitoring serves as the performance test method (see definition of "test method" in § 63.2.

(3) Approval of major changes to monitoring under § 63.8(f) and as defined in § 63.90.

(4) Approval of major change to recordkeeping and reporting under § 63.10(e) and as defined in § 63.90.
