
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart L - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region IX
###### Implementation Plan for the Navajo Nation
####### ยง 49.5512 Federal Implementation Plan Provisions for Four Corners Power Plant, Navajo Nation.
######## Sulfur Dioxide.

(2)For the purpose of determining compliance with this section, the sulfur dioxide inlet concentration (in lb/MMBtu) shall be calculated using the daily average percent sulfur and Btu content of the coal combusted. The inlet sulfur concentration and Btu content shall be determined in accordance with American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) methods or any other method receiving prior approval from the Regional Administrator. A daily fuel sample shall be collected using the coal sampling tower conforming to the ASTM specifications. The analyses shall be done on the daily sample using ASTM methods or any other method receiving prior approval from the Regional Administrator.

(i) The inlet sulfur dioxide concentration shall be calculated using the following formula:

(ii) The total pounds of SOgenerated by burning the coal shall be calculated by multiplying the SOinlet concentration by the daily total heat input determined by the 40 CFR part 75 acid rain monitoring. This will determine the pounds of SOproduced per day. The SOemitted from the stacks shall be determined by adding the daily SOemissions from each stack as determined by the 40 CFR part 75 acid rain monitors. Compliance with the emission limit shall be determined for each day by adding that day's SOemissions and that day's SOproduced to the previous 364 days and then dividing the 365 days of emissions by the 365 days of SOproduced. Compliance is demonstrated if this fraction, converted to a percent, is equal to or less than 12.0 percent. The data from the 40 CFR part 75 monitors shall not be bias adjusted. If a valid SOpounds per hour or heat input is not available for any hour for a unit, that heat input and SOpounds per hour shall not be used in the calculation of the annual plant-wide average.
