
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Hg Monitoring Provisions
####### Maximum Potential Concentration.,i.e.,

3.2.1.4.1There are three options for determining the maximum potential Hg concentration (MPC). Option 1 applies to coal combustion. You may use a default value of 10 µg/scm for all coal ranks (including coal refuse) except for lignite; for lignite, use 16 µg/scm. If different coals are blended as part of normal operation, use the highest MPC for any fuel in the blend. Option 2 is to base the MPC on the results of site-specific Hg emission testing. This option may be used only if the unit does not have add-on Hg emission controls or a flue gas desulfurization system, or if testing is performed upstream of all emission control devices. If Option 2 is selected, perform at least three test runs at the normal operating load, and the highest Hg concentration obtained in any of the tests shall be the MPC. Option 3 is to use fuel sampling and analysis to estimate the MPC. To make this estimate, use the average Hg content (the weight percentage) from at least three representative fuel samples, together with other available information, including, but not limited to the maximum fuel feed rate, the heating value of the fuel, and an appropriate F-factor. Assume that all of the Hg in the fuel is emitted to the atmosphere as vapor-phase Hg.
