
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Hg Monitoring Provisions
####### 7-Day Calibration Error Test.,i.e.,

4.1.1.1Perform the 7-day calibration error test on 7 consecutive source operating days, using a zero-level gas and either a high-level or a mid-level calibration gas standard (as defined in paragraphs 3.1.8, 3.1.10, and 3.1.11 of this appendix). Use a NIST-traceable elemental Hg gas standard (as defined in paragraphs 3.1.4 of this appendix) for the test. If your Hg CEMS lacks an integrated elemental Hg gas generator, you may continue to use NIST-traceable oxidized Hg gases for the 7-day calibration error test (or the daily calibration error check) until such time as NIST-traceable compressed elemental Hg gas standards, at appropriate concentration levels, are available from gas vendors. If moisture is added to the calibration gas, the dilution effect of the moisture and/or chlorine addition on the calibration gas concentration must be accounted for in an appropriate manner. Operate the Hg CEMS in its normal sampling mode during the test. The calibrations should be approximately 24 hours apart, unless the 7-day test is performed over non-consecutive calendar days. On each day of the test, inject the zero-level and upscale gases in sequence and record the analyzer responses. Pass the calibration gas through all filters, scrubbers, conditioners, and other monitor components used during normal sampling, and through as much of the sampling probe as is practical. Do not make any manual adjustments to the monitor (resetting the calibration) until after taking measurements at both the zero and upscale concentration levels. If automatic adjustments are made following both injections, conduct the calibration error test such that the magnitude of the adjustments can be determined, and use only the unadjusted analyzer responses in the calculations. Calculate the calibration error (CE) on each day of the test, as described in Table A-1 of this appendix. The CE on each day of the test must either meet the main performance specification or the alternative specification in Table A-1 of this appendix.
