
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Hg Monitoring Provisions
####### Linearity Check.

4.1.1.2Perform the linearity check using low, mid, and high-level concentrations of NIST-traceable elemental Hg standards. Three gas injections at each concentration level are required, with no two successive injections at the same concentration level. Introduce the calibration gas at the gas injection port, as specified in section 3.2.1.1.3.6 of this appendix. Operate the CEMS at its normal operating temperature and conditions. Pass the calibration gas through all filters, scrubbers, conditioners, and other components used during normal sampling, and through as much of the sampling probe as is practical. If moisture and/or chlorine is added to the calibration gas, the dilution effect of the moisture and/or chlorine addition on the calibration gas concentration must be accounted for in an appropriate manner. Record the monitor response from the data acquisition and handling system for each gas injection. At each concentration level, use the average analyzer response to calculate the linearity error (LE), as described in Table A-1. The LE must either meet the main performance specification or the alternative specification in Table A-1.
