
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Hg Monitoring Provisions
####### Cycle Time Test.

4.1.1.4Perform the cycle time test, using a zero-level gas and a high-level calibration gas.

Either an elemental or oxidized NIST-traceable Hg standard may be used as the high-level gas. Perform the test in two stages-upscale and downscale. The slower of the upscale and downscale response times is the cycle time for the CEMS. Begin each stage of the test by injecting calibration gas after achieving a stable reading of the stack emissions. The cycle time is the amount of time it takes for the analyzer to register a reading that is 95 percent of the way between the stable stack emissions reading and the final, stable reading of the calibration gas concentration. Use the following criterion to determine when a stable reading of stack emissions or calibration gas has been attained-the reading is stable if it changes by no more than 2.0 percent of the span value or 0.5 µg/scm (whichever is less restrictive) for two minutes, or a reading with a change of less than 6.0 percent from the measured average concentration over 6 minutes. Integrated batch sampling type Hg CEMS are exempted from this test; however, these systems must be capable of delivering a measured Hg concentration reading at least once every 15 minutes. If necessary to increase measurement sensitivity of a batch sampling type Hg CEMS for a specific application, you may petition the Administrator for approval of a time longer than 15 minutes between readings.
