
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Hg Monitoring Provisions
####### Test Frequency.

5.1.2The frequency for the required QA tests of the Hg CEMS shall be as follows:

5.1.2.1 Calibration error tests of the Hg CEMS are required daily, except during unit outages. Use a NIST-traceable elemental Hg gas standard for these calibrations. If your Hg CEMS lacks an integrated elemental Hg gas generator, you may continue to use NIST-traceable oxidized Hg gases for the 7-day calibration error test (or the daily calibration error check) until such time as NIST-traceable compressed elemental Hg gas standards, at appropriate concentration levels, are available from gas vendors. Both a zero-level gas and either a mid-level or high-level gas are required for these calibrations.

5.1.2.2 Perform a linearity check of the Hg CEMS in each QA operating quarter, using low-level, mid-level, and high-level NIST-traceable elemental Hg standards. For units that operate infrequently, limited exemptions from this test are allowed for "non-QA operating quarters". A maximum of three consecutive exemptions for this reason are permitted, following the quarter of the last test. After the third consecutive exemption, a linearity check must be performed in the next calendar quarter or within a grace period of 168 unit or stack operating hours after the end of that quarter. The test frequency for 3-level system integrity checks (if performed in lieu of linearity checks) is the same as for the linearity checks. Use low-level, mid-level, and high-level NIST-traceable oxidized Hg standards for the system integrity checks.
