
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix A to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Hg Monitoring Provisions
####### Heat Input-Based Hg Emission Rates.

6.2.1Calculate hourly heat input-based Hg emission rates, in units of lb/TBtu, according to sections 6.2.1.1 through 6.2.1.4 of this appendix.

6.2.1.1 Select an appropriate emission rate equation from among Equations 19-1 through 19-9 in EPA Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter.

6.2.1.2 Calculate the Hg emission rate in lb/MMBtu, using the equation selected from Method 19. Multiply the Hg concentration value by 6.24 x 10to convert it from µg/scm to lb/scf. In cases where an appropriate F-factor is not listed in Table 19-2 of Method 19, you may use F-factors from Table 1 in section 3.3.5 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, or F-factors derived using the procedures in section 3.3.6 of appendix to part 75 of this chapter. Also, for startup and shutdown hours, you may calculate the Hg emission rate using the applicable diluent cap value specified in section 3.3.4.1 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, provided that the diluent gas monitor is not out-of-control and the hourly average Oconcentration is above 14.0% O(19.0% for an IGCC) or the hourly average COconcentration is below 5.0% CO(1.0% for an IGCC), as applicable.

6.2.1.3 Multiply the lb/MMBtu value obtained in section 6.2.1.2 of this appendix by 10to convert it to lb/TBtu.

6.2.1.4 The heat input-based Hg emission rate limit in Table 2 to this subpart must be met on a 30 boiler operating day rolling average basis, except as otherwise provided in § 63.10009(a)(2). Use Equation 19-19 in EPA Method 19 to calculate the Hg emission rate for each averaging period. The term Ein Equation 19-19 must be in the units of the applicable emission limit. Do not include non-operating hours with zero emissions in the average.
