
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### Conditional Data Validation.,i.e.,

5.4.3For recertification and diagnostic testing of the monitoring systems that are used to provide data under this appendix, the conditional data validation provisions in ยง 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (ix) of this chapter may be used to avoid or minimize data loss. The allotted window of time to complete calibration tests and RATAs shall be as specified in ยง 75.20(b)(3)(iv) of this chapter; the allotted window of time to complete a quarterly gas audit or data accuracy assessment shall be the same as for a linearity check (168 unit or stack operating hours).

For the purposes of this appendix, the owner or operator of an affected unit shall not substitute for missing data from HCl or HF CEMS. Any process operating hour for which quality-assured HCl or HF concentration data are not obtained is counted as an hour of monitoring system downtime.

Bias adjustment of hourly emissions data from a HCl or HF CEMS is not required.

The owner or operator shall develop and implement a quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) program for the HCl and/or HF CEMS that are used to provide data under this subpart. At a minimum, the program shall include a written plan that describes in detail (or that refers to separate documents containing) complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for the most important QA/QC activities. Electronic storage of the QA/QC plan is permissible, provided that the information can be made available in hard copy to auditors and inspectors. The QA/QC program requirements for the other monitoring systems described in section 5.3 of this appendix are specified in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
