
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### Grace Periods.

5.3.2For the purposes of this appendix, a "grace period" is defined as a specified number of unit or stack operating hours after the deadline for a required quality-assurance test of a continuous monitor has passed, in which the test may be performed and passed without loss of data.

5.3.2.1 For the flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems described in section 5.2 of this appendix, a 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for quarterly linearity checks, and a 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available for RATAs, as provided, respectively, in sections 2.2.4 and 2.3.3 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.

5.3.2.2 For the purposes of this appendix, if the deadline for a required gas audit or RATA of a HCl or HF CEMS cannot be met due to circumstances beyond the control of the owner or operator:

5.3.2.2.1 A 168 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the gas audit; or

5.3.2.2.2 A 720 unit or stack operating hour grace period is available in which to perform the RATA.

5.3.2.3 If a required QA test is performed during a grace period, the deadline for the next test shall be determined as follows:

5.3.2.3.1 For a gas audit or RATA of the monitoring systems described in section 5.1 of this appendix, determine the deadline for the next gas audit or RATA (as applicable) in accordance with section 2.2.4(b) or 2.3.3(d) of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter; treat a gas audit in the same manner as a linearity check.

5.3.2.3.2 For the gas audit of a HCl or HF CEMS, the grace period test only satisfies the audit requirement for the calendar quarter in which the test was originally due. If the calendar quarter in which the grace period audit is performed is a QA operating quarter, an additional gas audit is required for that quarter.

5.3.2.3.3 For the RATA of a HCl or HF CEMS, the next RATA is due within three QA operating quarters after the calendar quarter in which the grace period test is performed.
