
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### i.e.,

5.1.2 On a quarterly basis, you must conduct a gas audit of the HCl and/or HF CEMS as described in section 3.1.1 of this appendix. For the purposes of this appendix, "quarterly" means once every "QA operating quarter" (as defined in section 3.1.20 of appendix A to this subpart). You have the option to use HCl gas in lieu of HF gas for conducting this audit on an HF CEMS. To the extent practicable, perform consecutive quarterly gas audits at least 30 days apart. The initial quarterly audit is due in the first QA operating quarter following the calendar quarter in which certification testing of the CEMS is successfully completed. Up to three consecutive exemptions from the quarterly audit requirement are allowed for "non-QA operating quarters" (calendar quarters in which there are less than 168 unit or stack operating hours). However, no more than four consecutive calendar quarters may elapse without performing a gas audit, except as otherwise provided in section 5.4.2.2.1 of this appendix.

5.1.3 You must perform an annual relative accuracy test audit or RATA of the HCl or HF CEMS as described in section 3.1.2 of this appendix. Perform the RATA at normal load. For the purposes of this appendix, "annual" means once every four "QA operating quarters" (as defined in section 3.1.20 of appendix A to this subpart). The first annual RATA is due within four QA operating quarters following the calendar quarter in which the initial certification testing of the HCl or HF CEMS is successfully completed. The provisions in section 5.1.2.4 of appendix A to this subpart pertaining to RATA deadline extensions also apply.

5.2 If you choose to follow Performance Specification PS 18 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then the quality assurance/quality control procedures in Procedure 6 of appendix F to part 60 of this chapter shall apply. The quarterly and annual QA tests required under Procedure 6 shall be performed, respectively, at the frequencies specified in sections 5.1.2 and 5.1.3 of this appendix.

5.3 Stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems must meet the applicable on-going QA test requirements of part 75 of this chapter.
