
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### i.e.

3.1.1.1 The audit sample gas does not have to be obtained from the Administrator; however, it must be (1) from a secondary source of certified gases (, independent of any calibration gas used for the daily calibration assessments) and (2) directly traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or VSL Dutch Metrology Institute (VSL) reference materials through an unbroken chain of comparisons. If audit gas traceable to NIST or VSL reference materials is not available, you may use a gas with a concentration certified to a specified uncertainty by the gas manufacturer.

3.1.1.2 Analyze the results of the gas audit using the calculations in section 12.1 of Performance Specification 15. The calculated correction factor (CF) from Eq. 6 of Performance Specification 15 must be between 0.85 and 1.15. You do not have to test the bias for statistical significance.

3.1.2 You must perform a relative accuracy test audit or RATA according to section 11.1.1.4 of Performance Specification 15 and the requirements below. Perform the RATA of the HCl or HF CEMS at normal load. Acceptable HCl/HF reference methods (RM) are Methods 26 and 26A in appendix A-8 to part 60 of this chapter, Method 320 in Appendix A to this part, or ASTM D6348-03 (Reapproved 2010) "Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14), each applied based on the criteria set forth in Table 5 of this subpart.

3.1.2.1 When ASTM D6348-03 is used as the RM, the following conditions must be met:

3.1.2.1.1 The test plan preparation and implementation in the Annexes to ASTM D6348-03, Sections A1 through A8 are mandatory;

3.1.2.1.2 In ASTM D6348-03 Annex A5 (Analyte Spiking Technique), the percent (%) R must be determined for each target analyte (see Equation A5.5);

3.1.2.1.3 For the ASTM D6348-03 test data to be acceptable for a target analyte, %R must be 70% &#x2264;R &#x2264;130%; and

3.1.2.1.4 The %R value for each compound must be reported in the test report and all field measurements corrected with the calculated %R value for that compound using the following equation:

3.1.2.2 The relative accuracy (RA) of the HCl or HF CEMS must be no greater than 20 percent of the mean value of the RM test data in units of ppm on the same moisture basis. Alternatively, if the mean RM value is less than 1.0 ppm, the RA results are acceptable if the absolute value of the difference between the mean RM and CEMS values does not exceed 0.20 ppm.

3.2 If you choose to follow PS 18 of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then your HCl CEMS must be certified according to PS 18, sections 7.0, 8.0, 11.0, 12.0, and 13.0.

3.3 Any additional stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring system(s) needed to express pollutant concentrations in units of the applicable emissions limit must be certified according to part 75 of this chapter.

Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to a certified CEMS that may significantly affect the ability of the system to accurately measure or record pollutant or diluent gas concentrations, stack gas flow rates, or stack gas moisture content, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. Furthermore, whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to the flue gas handling system or the unit operation that may significantly change the concentration or flow profile, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system. The same tests performed for the initial certification of the monitoring system shall be repeated for recertification, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. Examples of changes that require recertification include: Replacement of a gas analyzer; complete monitoring system replacement, and changing the location or orientation of the sampling probe.

On-going QA test requirements for HCl and HF CEMS must be implemented as follows:

5.1 If you choose to follow Performance Specification 15 (PS 15) of appendix B to part 60 of this chapter, then the quality assurance/quality control procedures of PS 15 shall apply as set forth in sections 5.1.1 through 5.1.3 and 5.4.2 of this appendix.

5.1.1 On a daily basis, you must assess the calibration error of the HCl or HF CEMS using either a calibration transfer standard as specified in Performance Specification 15 Section 10.1 which references Section 4.5 of the FTIR Protocol or a HCl and/or HF calibration gas at a concentration no greater than two times the level corresponding to the applicable emission limit. A calibration transfer standard is a substitute calibration compound chosen to ensure that the FTIR is performing well at the wavelength regions used for analysis of the target analytes. The measured concentration of the calibration transfer standard or HCl and/or HF calibration gas results must agree within +/-5 percent of the reference gas value after correction for differences in pressure.
