
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### Specific Requirements for HCl and HF CEMS.

8.2The following requirements are specific to HCl and HF CEMS:

8.2.1 Keep a written record of the procedures used for each type of QA test required for each HCl and HF CEMS. Explain how the results of each type of QA test are calculated and evaluated.

8.2.2 Explain how each component of the HCl and/or HF CEMS will be adjusted to provide correct responses to calibration gases after routine maintenance, repairs, or corrective actions.

9.1 Design and operate the HCl and/or HF CEMS to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-minute period.

9.2 Reduce the HCl and/or HF concentration data to hourly averages in accordance with ยง 60.13(h)(2) of this chapter.

9.3 Convert each hourly average HCl or HF concentration to an HCl or HF emission rate expressed in units of the applicable emissions limit.

9.3.1 For heat input-based emission rates, select an appropriate emission rate equation from among Equations 19-1 through 19-9 in EPA Method 19 in Appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate in lb/MMBtu. Multiply the HCl concentration value (ppm) by 9.43 x 10to convert it to lb/scf, for use in the applicable Method 19 equation. For HF, the conversion constant from ppm to lb/scf is 5.18 x 10. The appropriate diluent cap value from section 6.2.1.2 of Appendix A to this subpart may be used to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate (lb/MMBtu) during startup or shutdown hours.

9.3.2 For gross output-based emission rates, first calculate the HCl or HF mass emission rate (lb/h), using an equation that has the general form of Equation A-2 or A-3 in appendix A to this subpart (as applicable), replacing the value of K with 9.43 x 10lb/scf-ppm (for HCl) or 5.18 x 10(for HF) and defining Cas the hourly average HCl or HF concentration in ppm. Then, divide the result by the hourly gross output (megawatts) to convert it to units of lb/MWh. If the gross output is zero during a startup or shutdown hour, use the default gross output (as defined in ยง 63.10042) to calculate the HCl or HF emission rate. The default gross output is not considered to be a substitute data value.
