
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### HCl and HF CEMS.

10.1.8.1

10.1.8.1.1 For each required 7-day and daily calibration drift test or daily calibration error test (including daily calibration transfer standard tests) of the HCl or HF CEMS, record the test date(s) and time(s), reference gas value(s), monitor response(s), and calculated calibration drift or calibration error value(s). If you use the dynamic spiking option for the mid-level calibration drift check under PS-18, you must also record the measured concentration of the native HCl in the flue gas before and after the spike and the spiked gas dilution factor. When using an IP-CEMS under PS-18, you must also record the measured concentrations of the native HCl before and after introduction of each reference gas, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the instrument line strength factor, and the calculated equivalent concentration of reference gas.

10.1.8.1.2 For the required gas audits of an FTIR HCl or HF CEMS that is following PS 15, record the date and time of each spiked and unspiked sample, the audit gas reference values and uncertainties. Keep records of all calculations and data analyses required under sections 9.1 and 12.1 of Performance Specification 15, and the results of those calculations and analyses.

10.1.8.1.3 For each required RATA of an HCl or HF CEMS, record the beginning and ending date and time of each test run, the reference method(s) used, and the reference method and HCl or HF CEMS run values. Keep records of stratification tests performed (if any), all of the raw field data, relevant process operating data, and all of the calculations used to determine the relative accuracy.

10.1.8.1.4 For each required beam intensity test of an HCl IP-CEMS under PS-18, record the test date and time, the known attenuation value (%) used for the test, the concentration of the high-level reference gas used, the full-beam and attenuated beam intensity levels, the measured HCl concentrations at full-beam intensity and attenuated intensity and the percent difference between them, and the results of the test. For each required daily beam intensity check of an IP-CEMS under Procedure 6, record the beam intensity measured including the units of measure and the results of the check.

10.1.8.1.5 For each required measurement error (ME) test of an HCl monitor, record the date and time of each gas injection, the reference gas concentration (low, mid, or high) and the monitor response for each of the three injections at each of the three levels. Also record the average monitor response and the ME at each gas level and the related calculations. For ME tests conducted on IP-CEMS, also record the measured concentrations of the native HCl before and after introduction of each reference gas, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the calculated equivalent concentration of reference gas.

10.1.8.1.6 For each required level of detection (LOD) test of an HCl monitor performed in a controlled environment, record the test date, the concentrations of the reference gas and interference gases, the results of the seven (or more) consecutive measurements of HCl, the standard deviation, and the LOD value. For each required LOD test performed in the field, record the test date, the three measurements of the native source HCl concentration, the results of the three independent standard addition (SA) measurements known as standard addition response (SAR), the effective spike addition gas concentration (for IP-CEMS, the equivalent concentration of the reference gas), the resulting standard addition detection level (SADL) value and all related calculations. For extractive CEMS performing the SA using dynamic spiking, you must record the spiked gas dilution factor.

10.1.8.1.7 For each required ME/level of detection response time test of an HCl monitor, record the test date, the native HCl concentration of the flue gas, the reference gas value, the stable reference gas readings, the upscale/downscale start and end times, and the results of the upscale and downscale stages of the test.

10.1.8.1.8 For each required temperature or pressure measurement verification or audit of an IP-CEMS, keep records of the test date, the temperatures or pressures (as applicable) measured by the calibrated temperature or pressure reference device and the IP-CEMS, and the results of the test.

10.1.8.1.9 For each required interference test of an HCl monitor, record (or obtain from the analyzer manufacturer records of): The date of the test; the gas volume/rate, temperature, and pressure used to conduct the test; the HCl concentration of the reference gas used; the concentrations of the interference test gases; the baseline HCl and HCl responses for each interferent combination spiked; and the total percent interference as a function of span or HCl concentration.

10.1.8.1.10 For each quarterly relative accuracy audit (RAA) of an HCl monitor, record the beginning and ending date and time of each test run, the reference method used, the HCl concentrations measured by the reference method and CEMS for each test run, the average concentrations measured by the reference method and the CEMS, and the calculated relative accuracy. Keep records of the raw field data, relevant process operating data, and the calculations used to determine the relative accuracy.

10.1.8.1.11 For each quarterly cylinder gas audit (CGA) of an HCl monitor, record the date and time of each injection, and the reference gas concentration (zero, mid, or high) and the monitor response for each injection. Also record the average monitor response and the calculated ME at each gas level. For IP-CEMS, you must also record the measured concentrations of the native HCl before and after introduction of each reference gas, the path lengths of the calibration cell and the stack optical path, the stack and calibration cell temperatures, the stack and calibration cell pressures, the instrument line strength factor, and the calculated equivalent concentration of reference gas.

10.1.8.1.12 For each quarterly dynamic spiking audit (DSA) of an HCl monitor, record the date and time of the zero gas injection and each spike injection, the results of the zero gas injection, the gas concentrations (mid and high) and the dilution factors and the monitor response for each of the six upscale injections as well as the corresponding native HCl concentrations measured before and after each injection. Also record the average dynamic spiking error for each of the upscale gases, the calculated average DSA Accuracy at each upscale gas concentration, and all calculations leading to the DSA Accuracy.
