
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix B to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - -HCl and HF Monitoring Provisions
####### Monitoring Plan Reporting.

11.3For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) using HCl and/or HF CEMS, the owner or operator shall make electronic and hard copy monitoring plan submittals as follows:

11.3.1 For an EGU that begins reporting hourly HCl and/or HF concentrations with a previously-certified CEMS, submit the monitoring plan information in section 10.1.1.2 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required quarterly emissions report. For a new EGU, or for an EGU switching to continuous monitoring of HCl and/or HF emissions after having implemented another allowable compliance option under this subpart, submit the information in section 10.1.1.2 of this appendix at least 21 days prior to the start of initial certification testing of the CEMS. Also submit the monitoring plan information in section 75.53(g) pertaining to any required flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems within the applicable time frame specified in this section, if the required records are not already in place.

11.3.2 Update the monitoring plan when required, as provided in paragraph 10.1.1.1 of this appendix. An electronic monitoring plan information update must be submitted either prior to or concurrent with the quarterly report for the calendar quarter in which the update is required.

11.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool. Hard copy portions of the monitoring plan shall be kept on record according to section 10.1 of this appendix.
