
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### i.e.,

3.2.3 Other Necessary Data Collection. To convert hourly PM concentrations to the units of the applicable emissions standard (lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh), you must collect additional data as described in sections 3.2.3.1 and 3.2.3.2 of this appendix. You must install, certify, operate, maintain, and quality-assure any stack gas flow rate, COO, or moisture monitoring systems needed for this purpose according to sections 4 and 5 of this appendix. The calculation methods for the emission limits described in sections 3.2.3.1 and 3.2.3.2 of this appendix are presented in section 6 of this appendix.

3.2.3.1 Heat Input-Based Emission Limits. To demonstrate compliance with a heat input-based PM emission limit in Table 2 to this subpart, you must provide the hourly stack gas COor Oconcentration, along with a fuel-specific Ffactor or dry-basis F-factor and (if applicable) the stack gas moisture content, in order to convert measured PM concentrations values to the units of the standard.

3.2.3.2 Gross Output-Based Emission Limits. To demonstrate compliance with a gross output-based PM emission limit in Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart, you must provide the hourly gross output in megawatts, along with data from a certified stack gas flow rate monitor and (if applicable) the stack gas moisture content, in order to convert measured PM concentrations values to units of the standard.
