
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### e.g.,

7.1.1.1 Updates. If you make a replacement, modification, or change in a certified CEMS that is used to provide data under this appendix (including a change in the automated data acquisition and handling system (DAHS)) or if you make a change to the flue gas handling system and that replacement, modification, or change affects information reported in the monitoring plan (a change to a serial number for a component of a monitoring system), you shall update the monitoring plan.

7.1.1.2 Contents of the Monitoring Plan. For the PM CEMS, your monitoring plan shall contain the applicable information in sections 7.1.1.2.1 and 7.1.1.2.2 of this appendix. For required stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems, your monitoring plan shall include the applicable information required for those systems under 40 CFR 75.53 (g) and (h) of this chapter.

7.1.1.2.1 Electronic. Your electronic monitoring plan records must include the following information: Unit or stack ID number(s); unit information (type of unit, maximum rated heat input, fuel type(s), emission controls); monitoring location(s); the monitoring methodologies used; monitoring system information, including (as applicable): Unique system and component ID numbers; the make, model, and serial number of the monitoring equipment; the sample acquisition method; formulas used to calculate emissions; operating range and load information; monitor span and range information; units of measure of your PM concentrations (see section 3.2.2); and appropriate default values. Your electronic monitoring plan shall be evaluated and submitted using the ECMPS Client Tool provided by the Clean Air Markets Division (CAMD) in EPA's Office of Atmospheric Programs.

7.1.1.2.2 Hard Copy. You must keep records of the following items: Schematics and/or blueprints showing the location of the PM monitoring system(s) and test ports; data flow diagrams; test protocols; and miscellaneous technical justifications. The hard copy portion of the monitoring plan must also explain how the PM concentrations are measured and how they are converted to the units of the applicable emissions limit. The equation(s) used for the conversions must be documented. Electronic storage of the hard copy portion of the monitoring plan is permitted.
