
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### e.g.,

6.2.1 PM concentrations must be at standard conditions in order to convert them to units of the emissions limit. If your PM CEMS measures PM concentrations at standard conditions, proceed to section 6.2.2 or 6.2.3, below (as applicable). However, if your PM CEMS measures PM concentrations in units of mg/acm or mg/acm at a specified temperature (160 &#xB0;C), you must first use one of the following equations to convert the hourly PM concentration values from actual to standard conditions:

or

6.2.2.2 You must use the appropriate carbon-based or dry-basis F-factor in the emission rate equation that you have selected. You may either use an F-factor from Table 19-2 of EPA test Method 19 in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter or from section 3.3.5 or section 3.3.6 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter.

6.2.2.3 If the hourly average Oconcentration is above 14.0% O(19.0% for an IGCC) or the hourly average COconcentration is below 5.0% CO(1.0% for an IGCC), you may calculate the PM emission rate using the applicable diluent cap value (as defined in 40 CFR 63.10042 and specified in 40 CFR 63.10007(f)(1)), provided that the diluent gas monitor is operating and recording quality-assured data).

6.2.2.4 If your selected EPA test Method 19 equation requires a correction for the stack gas moisture content, you may either use quality-assured hourly data from a certified part 75 moisture monitoring system, a fuel-specific default moisture value from 40 CFR 75.11(b) of this chapter, or a site-specific default moisture value approved by the Administrator under section 75.66 of this chapter.

6.2.3 Gross Output-Based PM Emission Rates. For each unit or stack operating hour, if Cis measured on a wet basis, you must use Equation C-3 to calculate the gross output-based PM emission rate (if applicable). Use Equation C-4 if Cis measured on a dry basis:

or

6.2.4 You must calculate the 30-boiler operating day rolling average PM emission rates according to 40 CFR 63.10021(b).
