
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### QA/QC Program Requirements.

5.3You must develop and implement a QA/QC program for the PM CEMS and the other equipment that is used to provide data under this subpart. You may store your QA/QC plan electronically, provided that the information can be made available expeditiously in hard copy to auditors and inspectors.

5.3.1 General Requirements.

5.3.1.1 Preventive Maintenance. You must keep a written record of the procedures needed to maintain the PM CEMS and other equipment that is used to provide data under this subpart in proper operating condition, along with a schedule for those procedures. At a minimum, you must include all procedures specified by the manufacturers of the equipment and, if applicable, additional or alternate procedures developed for the equipment.

5.3.1.2 Recordkeeping Requirements. You must keep a written record describing procedures that will be used to implement the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this appendix.

5.3.1.3 Maintenance Records. You must keep a record of all testing, maintenance, or repair activities performed on the PM CEMS, and other equipment used to provide data under this subpart in a location and format suitable for inspection. You may use a maintenance log for this purpose. You must maintain the following records for each system or device: The date, time, and description of any testing, adjustment, repair, replacement, or preventive maintenance action performed, and records of any corrective actions taken. Additionally, you must record any adjustment that may affect the ability of a monitoring system or measurement device to make accurate measurements, and you must keep a written explanation of the procedures used to make the adjustment(s).

5.3.2 Specific Requirements for the PM CEMS.

5.3.2.1 Daily, and Quarterly Quality Assurance Assessments. You must keep a written record of the procedures used for daily assessments of the PM CEMS. You must also keep records of the procedures used to perform quarterly ACA and (if applicable) SVA audits. You must document how the test results are calculated and evaluated.

5.3.2.2 Monitoring System Adjustments. You must document how each component of the PM CEMS will be adjusted to provide correct responses after routine maintenance, repairs, or corrective actions.

5.3.2.3 Correlation Tests, Annual and Triennial Audits. You must keep a written record of procedures used for the correlation test(s), annual RRAs, and triennial RCAs of the PM CEMS. You must document how the test results are calculated and evaluated.

5.3.3 Specific Requirements for Diluent Gas, Stack Gas Flow Rate, and Moisture Monitoring Systems. The QA/QC program requirements for the stack gas flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems described in section 3.2.3 of this appendix are specified in section 1 of appendix B to part 75 of this chapter.
