
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### i.e.,

5.1.2.3 Successive quarterly audits (ACAs and, if applicable, sample volume audits (SVAs)) shall be conducted at least 60 days apart.

5.1.3 Grace Period. A grace period is available, immediately following the end of the calendar quarter in which an RRA or RCA of the PM CEMS is due. The length of the grace period shall be the lesser of 720 EGU (or stack) operating hours or 1 calendar quarter.

5.1.4 RCA and RRA Acceptability. The results of your RRA or RCA are considered acceptable provided that the criteria in section 10.4(5) of Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter are met for an RCA or section 10.4(6) of Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter are met for an RRA.

5.1.5 Data Validation. Your PM CEMS is considered to be out-of-control, and you may not report data from it as quality-assured, when, for a required certification, recertification, or QA test, the applicable acceptance criterion (either in PS-11 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter or Procedure 2 in appendix F to part 60 of this chapter) is not met. Further, data from your PM CEMS are considered out-of-control, and may not be used for reporting, when a required QA test is not performed on schedule or within an allotted grace period. When an out-of-control period occurs, you must perform the appropriate follow-up actions. For an out-of-control period triggered by a failed QA test, you must perform and pass the same type of test in order to end the out-of-control period. For a QA test that is not performed on time, data from the PM CEMS remain out-of-control until the required test has been performed and passed. You must count all out-of-control data periods of the PM CEMS as hours of monitoring system downtime.
