
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### Reporting Requirements.

7.2

7.2.1 General Reporting Provisions. You must comply with the following requirements for reporting PM emissions from each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack) under this subpart:

7.2.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with section 7.2.2 of this appendix;

7.2.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with section 7.2.3 of this appendix;

7.2.1.3 Certification, recertification, and quality assurance test submittals, in accordance with section 7.2.4 of this appendix; and

7.2.1.4 Electronic quarterly emissions report submittals, in accordance with section 7.2.5 of this appendix.

7.2.2 Notifications. You must provide notifications for each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10030.

7.2.3 Monitoring Plan Reporting. For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart using PM CEMS to measure PM emissions, you must make electronic and hard copy monitoring plan submittals as follows:

7.2.3.1 For an EGU that begins reporting hourly PM concentrations on January 1, 2024, with a previously certified PM CEMS, submit the monitoring plan information in section 7.1.1.2 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required quarterly emissions report. For a new EGU, or for an EGU switching to continuous monitoring of PM emissions after having implemented another allowable compliance option under this subpart, submit the information in section 7.1.1.2 of this appendix at least 21 days prior to the start of initial certification testing of the PM CEMS. Also submit the monitoring plan information in 40 CFR 75.53(g) pertaining to any required flow rate, diluent gas, and moisture monitoring systems within the applicable time frame specified in this section, if the required records are not already in place.

7.2.3.2 Whenever an update of the monitoring plan is required, as provided in section 7.1.1.1 of this appendix, you must submit the updated information either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report.

7.2.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool. Hard copy portions of the monitoring plan shall be submitted to the appropriate delegated authority.
