
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### i.e.,,e.g.,,i.e.,

7.2.4 Certification, Recertification, and Quality-Assurance Test Reporting. Except for daily quality assurance tests of the required monitoring systems (calibration error or drift tests, sample volume checks, system optics checks, and flow monitor interference checks), you must submit the results of all required certification, recertification, and quality-assurance tests described in sections 7.1.9.1 through 7.1.9.6 and 7.1.10 of this appendix electronically (except for test results previously submitted,under the Acid Rain Program), using the ECMPS Client Tool. Submit the results of the quality assurance test (RCA or RRA) or, if applicable, a new PM CEMS correlation test, either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report. If this is not possible, you have up to 60 days after the test completion date to submit the test results; in this case, you may claim provisional status for the emissions data affected by the quality assurance test or correlation, starting from the date and hour in which the test was completed and continuing until the date and hour in which the test results are submitted. For an RRA or RCA, if the applicable audit specifications are met, the status of the emissions data in the relevant time period changes from provisional to quality-assured, and no further action is required. For a successful correlation test, apply the correlation equation retrospectively to the raw data to change the provisional status of the data to quality-assured, and resubmit the affected emissions report(s). However, if the applicable performance specifications are not met, the provisional data must be invalidated, and resubmission of the affected quarterly emission report(s) is required. For a failed RRA or RCA, you must take corrective actions and proceed according to the applicable requirements found in sections 10.5 through 10.7 of Procedure 2 until a successful quality assurance test report is submitted. If a correlation test is unsuccessful, you may not report quality-assured data from the PM CEMS until the results of a subsequent correlation test show that the specifications in section 13.0 of PS 11 are met.

7.2.5 Quarterly Reports.

7.2.5.1 For each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack), the owner or operator must use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit electronic quarterly emissions reports to the Administrator, in an XML format specified by the Administrator, starting with a report for the later of:

7.2.5.1.1 The first calendar quarter of 2024; or

7.2.5.1.2 The calendar quarter in which the initial PM CEMS correlation test is completed.

7.2.5.2 You must submit the electronic reports within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for EGUs that have been placed in long-term cold storage (as defined in section 72.2 of this chapter).

7.2.5.3 Each of your electronic quarterly reports shall include the following information:

7.2.5.3.1 The date of report generation;

7.2.5.3.2 Facility identification information;

7.2.5.3.3 The information in sections 7.1.2 through 7.1.7 of this appendix that is applicable to your PM emission measurement methodology; and
