
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix C to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM Monitoring Provisions
####### e.g.,

7.1.2 Operating Parameter Records. You must record the following information for each operating hour of each EGU and also for each group of EGUs utilizing a monitored common stack, to the extent that these data are needed to convert PM concentration data to the units of the emission standard. For non-operating hours, you must record only the items in sections 7.1.2.1 and 7.1.2.2 of this appendix. If you elect to or are required to comply with a gross output-based PM standard, for any hour in which there is gross output greater than zero, you must record the items in sections 7.1.2.1 through 7.1.2.3 and (if applicable) 7.1.2.5 of this appendix; however, if there is heat input to the unit(s) but no gross output (at unit startup), you must record the items in sections 7.1.2.1, 7.1.2.2, and, if applicable, section 7.1.2.5 of this appendix. If you elect to comply with a heat input-based PM standard, you must record only the items in sections 7.1.2.1, 7.1.2.2, 7.1.2.4, and, if applicable, section 7.1.2.5 of this appendix.

7.1.2.1 The date and hour;

7.1.2.2 The unit or stack operating time (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from 1 hundredth to 1 quarter of an hour, at your option);

7.1.2.3 The hourly gross output (rounded to nearest MWe);

7.1.2.4 If applicable, the Ffactor or dry-basis F-factor used to calculate the heat input-based PM emission rate; and

7.1.2.5 If applicable, a flag to indicate that the hour is an exempt startup or shutdown hour.

7.1.3 PM Concentration Records. For each affected unit or common stack using a PM CEMS, you must record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:

7.1.3.1 The date and hour;

7.1.3.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes for the PM CEMS, as provided in the electronic monitoring plan, if your CEMS provides a quality-assured value of PM concentration for the hour;

7.1.3.3 The hourly PM concentration, in units of measure that correspond to your PM CEMS correlation curve, for each operating hour in which a quality-assured value is obtained. Record all PM concentrations with one leading non-zero digit and one decimal place, expressed in scientific notation. Use the following rounding convention: If the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 5 or greater, round the first decimal place upward (increase it by one); if the digit immediately following the first decimal place is 4 or less, leave the first decimal place unchanged.

7.1.3.4 A special code, indicating whether or not a quality-assured PM concentration is obtained for the hour; and

7.1.3.5 Monitor data availability for PM concentration, as a percentage of unit or stack operating hours calculated in the manner established for SO, CO, Oor moisture monitoring systems according to 40 CFR 75.32 of this chapter.

7.1.4 Stack Gas Volumetric Flow Rate Records.

7.1.4.1 When a gross output-based PM emissions limit must be met, in units of lb/MWh, you must obtain hourly measurements of stack gas volumetric flow rate during EGU operation, in order to convert PM concentrations to units of the standard.

7.1.4.2 When hourly measurements of stack gas flow rate are needed, you must keep hourly records of the flow rates and related information, as specified in 40 CFR 75.57(c)(2) of this chapter.

7.1.5 Records of Diluent Gas (COor O) Concentration.

7.1.5.1 When a heat input-based PM emission limit must be met, in units of lb/MMBtu, you must obtain hourly measurements of COor Oconcentration during EGU operation, in order to convert PM concentrations to units of the standard.

7.1.5.2 When hourly measurements of diluent gas concentration are needed, you must keep hourly COor Oconcentration records, as specified in 40 CFR 75.57(g) of this chapter.

7.1.6 Records of Stack Gas Moisture Content.

7.1.6.1 When corrections for stack gas moisture content are needed to demonstrate compliance with the applicable PM emissions limit:

7.1.6.1.1 If you use a continuous moisture monitoring system, you must keep hourly records of the stack gas moisture content and related information, as specified in 40 CFR 75.57(c)(3) of this chapter.

7.1.6.1.2 If you use a fuel-specific default moisture value, you must represent it in the electronic monitoring plan required under section 7.1.1.2.1 of this appendix.

7.1.7 PM Emission Rate Records. For applicable PM emission limits in units of lb/MMBtu or lb/MWh, you must record the following information for each affected EGU or common stack:

7.1.7.1 The date and hour;
