
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix D to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM CPMS Monitoring Provisions
####### e.g.,

3.1.1.2.2 Electronic Monitoring Plan Updates. If you replace or make a change to a PM CPMS that is used to provide data under this subpart (including a change in the automated DAHS) and the replacement or change affects information reported in the electronic monitoring plan (changes to the make, model and serial number when a PM CPMS is replaced), you must update the monitoring plan.

3.1.2 Operating Parameter Records. You must record the following information for each operating hour of each affected unit and for each group of units utilizing a common stack. For non-operating hours, record only the items in sections 3.1.2.1 and 3.1.2.2 of this appendix.

3.1.2.1 The date and hour;

3.1.2.2 The unit or stack operating time (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from 1 hundredth to 1 quarter of an hour, at the option of the owner or operator); and

3.1.2.3 If applicable, a flag to indicate that the hour is an exempt startup or shutdown hour.

3.1.3 PM CPMS Output Records. For each affected unit or common stack using a PM CPMS, you must record the following information for each unit or stack operating hour:

3.1.3.1 The date and hour;

3.1.3.2 Monitoring system and component identification codes for the PM CPMS, as provided in the electronic monitoring plan, for each operating hour in which the monitoring system is not out-of-control and a valid value of the output parameter is obtained;

3.1.3.3 The hourly average output from the PM CPMS, for each operating hour in which the monitoring system is not out-of-control and a valid value of the output parameter is obtained, either in milliamps, PM concentration, or other units of measure, as applicable;

3.1.3.4 A special code for each operating hour in which the PM CPMS is out-of-control and a valid value of the output parameter is not obtained; and

3.1.3.5 Percent monitor data availability for the PM CPMS, calculated in the manner established for SO, CO, Oor moisture monitoring systems according to section 75.32 of this chapter.

3.1.4 Records of PM CPMS Audits and Out-of-Control Periods. In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10010(h)(7), you must record, and make available upon request, the results of PM CPMS performance audits, as well as the dates of PM CPMS out-of-control periods and the corrective actions taken to return the system to normal operation.
