
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix D to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - PM CPMS Monitoring Provisions
####### Reporting Requirements.

3.2

3.2.1 General Reporting Provisions. You must comply with the following requirements for reporting PM CPMS data from each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack) under this subpart:

3.2.1.1 Notifications, in accordance with section 3.2.2 of this appendix;

3.2.1.2 Monitoring plan reporting, in accordance with section 3.2.3 of this appendix;

3.2.1.3 Report submittals, in accordance with sections 3.2.4 and 3.2.5 of this appendix.

3.2.2 Notifications. You must provide notifications for the affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10030.

3.2.3 Monitoring Plan Reporting. For each affected unit (or group of units monitored at a common stack) under this subpart using a PM CPMS you must make monitoring plan submittals as follows:

3.2.3.1 For units using the PM CPMS compliance option prior to January 1, 2024, submit the electronic monitoring plan information in section 3.1.1.2.1 of this appendix prior to or concurrent with the first required electronic quarterly report. For units switching to the PM CPMS methodology on or after January 1, 2024, submit the electronic monitoring plan no later than 21 days prior to the date on which the PM test is performed to establish the initial operating limit.

3.2.3.2 Whenever an update of the electronic monitoring plan is required, as provided in section 3.1.1.2.2 of this appendix, the updated information must be submitted either prior to or concurrent with the relevant quarterly electronic emissions report.

3.2.3.3 All electronic monitoring plan submittals and updates shall be made to the Administrator using the ECMPS Client Tool.

3.2.3.4 In accordance with 40 CFR 63.10000(d), you must submit the site-specific monitoring plan described in section 3.1.1.1 of this appendix to the Administrator, if requested.

3.2.4 Electronic Quarterly Reports.

3.2.4.1 For each affected EGU (or group of EGUs monitored at a common stack) that is subject to the provisions of this appendix, reporting of hourly responses from the PM CPMS will begin either with the first operating hour in the third quarter of 2023 or the first operating hour after completion of the initial stack test that establishes the operating limit, whichever is later. The owner or operator must then use the ECMPS Client Tool to submit electronic quarterly reports to the Administrator, in an XML format specified by the Administrator, starting with a report for the later of:

3.2.4.1.1 The first calendar quarter of 2024; or

3.2.4.1.2 The calendar quarter in which the initial operating limit for the PM CPMS is established.

3.2.4.2 The electronic quarterly reports must be submitted within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter, except for units that have been placed in long-term cold storage (as defined in section 72.2 of this chapter).

3.2.4.3 Each electronic quarterly report shall include the following information:

3.2.4.3.1 The date of report generation;

3.2.4.3.2 Facility identification information; and

3.2.4.3.3 The information in sections 3.1.2 and 3.1.3 of this appendix.

3.2.4.4 Compliance Certification. Based on a reasonable inquiry of those persons with primary responsibility for ensuring that the output from the PM CPMS has been correctly and fully monitored, the owner or operator shall submit a compliance certification in support of each electronic quarterly report. The compliance certification shall include a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying that, to the best of his or her knowledge, the report is true, accurate, and complete.

3.2.5 Performance Stack Test Results. You must use the ECMPS Client Tool to report the results of all performance stack tests conducted to document compliance with the applicable emissions limit in Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart, as follows:

3.2.5.1 Report a summary of each test electronically, in XML format, in the relevant quarterly compliance report under 40 CFR 63.10031(g); and

3.2.5.2 Provide a complete stack test report as a PDF file, in accordance with 40 CFR 63.10031(f) or (h), as applicable.
