
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix E to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Data Elements
####### heat input-based,e.g.,

16.3 Application of EPA test Method 4. For performance stack tests, depending on which equation is used to convert pollutant concentration to units of the standard, measurement of the stack gas moisture content, using EPA test Method 4, may also be required for each test run. The EPA test Method 4 moisture data are also needed for the EPA test Method 2 calculations (to determine the molecular weight of the gas) and for the RATA of an Hg CEMS that measures on a wet basis, when EPA test Method 30B is used. Other applications that require EPA test Method 4 moisture determinations include: RATAs of an SOmonitor, when the reference method and CEMS data are measured on a different moisture basis (wet or dry); conversion of wet-basis pollutant concentrations to the units of aemissions limit when certain EPA test Method 19 equations are used (Eq. 19-3, 19-4, or 19-8); and stack gas molecular weight determinations. When EPA test Method 5, 5D, 26A, or 29 is used for the performance test, the EPA test Method 4 moisture determination may be made by using the water collected in the impingers together with data from the dry gas meter; alternatively, a separate EPA test Method 4 determination may be made. However, when EPA test Method 26 or 30B is used, EPA test Method 4 must be performed separately.

16.4 Applications of EPA test Methods 5 and 5D. The EPA test Method 5 (or, if applicable 5D) must be used for the following applications: To demonstrate compliance with a filterable PM emissions limit; for PM tests used to set operating limits for PM CPMS; and for the initial correlations, RRAs and RCAs of a PM CEMS.

16.5 Applications of EPA test Method 6C. If you elect to monitor SOemissions from your coal-fired EGU as a surrogate for HCl, the SOCEMS must be installed, certified, operated, and maintained according to 40 CFR part 75. Part 75 allows the use of EPA test Methods 6, 6A, 6B, and 6C for the required RATAs of the SOmonitor. However, in practice, only instrumental EPA test Method 6C is used.

16.6 Applications of EPA test Methods 26 and 26A. The EPA test Method 26A may be used for quarterly HCl or HF stack testing, or for the RATA of an HCl or HF CEMS. The EPA test Method 26 may be used for quarterly HCl or HF stack testing; however, for the RATAs of an HCl monitor that is following PS 18 and Procedure 6 in appendices B and F to part 60 of this chapter, EPA test Method 26 may only be used if approved upon request.

16.7 Applications of EPA test Method 29. The EPA test Method 29 may be used for periodic performance stack tests to determine compliance with individual or total HAP metals emissions limits. For coal-fired EGUs, the total HAP emissions limits exclude Hg.

16.8 Applications of EPA test Method 30B. The EPA test Method 30B is used for 30- (or 90-) boiler operating day Hg LEE tests and RATAs of Hg CEMS and sorbent trap monitoring systems, and it may be used for quarterly Hg stack testing (oil-fired EGUs, only).
