
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart UUUUU - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Coal- and Oil-Fired Electric Utility Steam Generating Units
###### Appendix E to Subpart UUUUU of Part 63 - Data Elements
####### Laboratory Results for EPA test Methods 29 Total or Individual Multiple HAP Metals.,i.e.,

21If you use EPA test Method 29 and elect to comply with the total or individual HAP metals standards, you must report run-level data elements 19.1 through 19.34 in Section 19, and the point-level data elements in Section 20. To link the laboratory data with the run data in the xml schema, you must report the Source ID (Data Element 18.1), EPA Test Method (Data Element 19.3), Run Number (Data Element 19.4), and Run Begin Date (Data Element 19.8) with the results of the laboratory analyses. Regardless of whether you elect to comply with the total HAP metals standard or the individual HAP metals standard, you must report the front half catch, the back half catch, and the sum of the front and back half catches collected with EPA test Method 29 for each individual HAP metal and for the total HAP metals. The list of individual HAP metals is Antimony, Arsenic, Beryllium, Cadmium, Chromium, Cobalt, Lead, Manganese, Nickel, Selenium, and Mercury (if applicable). You must also calculate and report the pollutant emission rates(s) in relation to the standard(s) with which you have elected to comply and the units specified in Table 5 as follows:

21.1 Each Individual HAP metal total mass collected:

21.1.1 Pollutant Name;

21.1.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;

21.1.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and

21.1.4 Detection Limit Flag.

21.2 Each Individual HAP metal Front Half:

21.2.1 Pollutant Name;

21.2.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;

21.2.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and

21.2.4 Detection Limit Flag.

21.3 Each Individual HAP metal Back Half:

21.3.1 Pollutant Name;

21.3.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;

21.3.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and

21.3.4 Detection Limit Flag.

21.4 Each Individual HAP metal concentration:

21.4.1 Pollutant Name;

21.4.2 Pollutant Concentration; and

21.4.3 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure.

21.5 Each Individual HAP metal emission rate in units of the standard:

21.5.1 Pollutant Name;

21.5.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and

21.5.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.

21.6 Each Individual HAP metal emission rate in units of lbs/MMBTU or lbs/MW (per Table 5):

21.6.1 Pollutant Name;

21.6.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and

21.6.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.

21.7 Total Filterable HAP metals mass collected:

21.7.1 Pollutant Name;

21.7.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;

21.7.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and

21.7.4 Detection Limit Flag.

21.8 Total Filterable HAP metals concentration:

21.8.1 Pollutant Name;

21.8.2 Pollutant Concentration; and

21.8.3 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure.

21.9 Total Filterable HAP metals in units of lbs/MMBtu or lbs/MW (per Table 5):

21.9.1 Pollutant Name;

21.9.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and

21.9.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.

21.10 Total HAP metals mass collected:

21.10.1 Pollutant Name;

21.10.2 Pollutant Mass Collected;

21.10.3 Pollutant Mass Units of Measure; and

21.10.4 Detection Limit Flag.

21.11 Total HAP metals concentration

21.11.1 Pollutant Name;

21.11.2 Pollutant Concentration; and

21.11.3 Pollutant Concentration Units of Measure.

21.12 Total HAP metals Emission Rate in Units of the Standard:

21.12.1 Pollutant Name;

21.12.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and

21.12.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.

21.13 Total HAP metals Emission Rate in lbs/MMBtu or lbs/MW (per Table 5):

21.13.1 Pollutant Name;

21.13.2 Pollutant Emission Rate; and

21.13.3 Pollutant Emission Rate Units of Measure.
