
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Electric Arc Furnace Steelmaking Facilities
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.10686 What are the requirements for electric arc furnaces and argon-oxygen decarburization vessels?

(a) You must install, operate, and maintain a capture system that collects the emissions from each EAF (including charging, melting, and tapping operations) and argon-oxygen decarburization (AOD) vessel and conveys the collected emissions to a control device for the removal of particulate matter (PM).

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, you must not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from an EAF or AOD vessel any gases which:

(1) Exit from a control device and contain in excess of 0.0052 grains of PM per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf); and

(2) Exit from a melt shop and, due solely to the operations of any affected EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater.

(c) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that has a production capacity of less than 150,000 tons per year (tpy) of stainless or specialty steel (as determined by the maximum production if specified in the source's operating permit or EAF capacity and maximum number of operating hours per year), you must not discharge or cause the discharge into the atmosphere from an EAF or AOD vessel any gases which:

(1) Exit from a control device and contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of 0.8 pounds per ton (lb/ton) of steel. Alternatively, the owner or operator may elect to comply with a PM limit of 0.0052 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf); and

(2) Exit from a melt shop and, due solely to the operations of any affected EAF(s) or AOD vessel(s), exhibit 6 percent opacity or greater.

(d) Except as provided in paragraph (d)(6) of this section, you must conduct performance tests to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emissions limit for each emissions source subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section.

(1) You must conduct each PM performance test for an EAF or AOD vessel according to the procedures in ยง 63.7 and 40 CFR 60.275a using the following test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1, A-2, A-3, and A-4:

(i) Method 1 or 1A of appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G of appendix A-1 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses" (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) Method 4 of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 5 or 5D of appendix A-3 of 40 CFR part 60 to determine the PM concentration. Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test. For EAF, sample only when metal is being melted and refined. For AOD vessels, sample only when the operation(s) are being conducted.

(2) You must conduct each opacity test for a melt shop according to the procedures in ยง 63.6(h) and Method 9 of appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60. When emissions from any EAF or AOD vessel are combined with emissions from emission sources not subject to this subpart, you must demonstrate compliance with the melt shop opacity limit based on emissions from only the emission sources subject to this subpart.

(3) During any performance test, you must monitor and record the information specified in 40 CFR 60.274a(h) for all heats covered by the test.

(4) You must notify and receive approval from the Administrator for procedures that will be used to determine compliance for an EAF or AOD vessel when emissions are combined with those from facilities not subject to this subpart.

(5) To determine compliance with the PM emissions limit in paragraph (c) of this section for an EAF or AOD vessel in a lb/ton of steel format, compute the process-weighted mass emissions (E) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section:

(6) If you own or operate an existing affected source that is subject to the emissions limits in paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, you may certify initial compliance with the applicable emission limit for one or more emissions sources based on the results of a previous performance test for that emissions source in lieu of the requirement for an initial performance test provided that the test(s) were conducted within 5 years of the compliance date using the methods and procedures specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section; the test(s) were for the affected facility; and the test(s) were representative of current or anticipated operating processes and conditions. Should the permitting authority deem the prior test data unacceptable to demonstrate compliance with an applicable emissions limit, the owner or operator must conduct an initial performance test within 180 days of the compliance date or within 90 days of receipt of the notification of disapproval of the prior test, whichever is later.

(e) You must monitor the capture system and PM control device required by this subpart, maintain records, and submit reports according to the compliance assurance monitoring requirements in 40 CFR part 64. The exemption in 40 CFR 64.2(b)(1)(i) for emissions limitations or standards proposed after November 15, 1990 under section 111 or 112 of the CAA does not apply. In lieu of the deadlines for submittal in 40 CFR 64.5, you must submit the monitoring information required by 40 CFR 64.4 to the applicable permitting authority for approval by no later than the compliance date for your affected source for this subpart and operate according to the approved plan by no later than 180 days after the date of approval by the permitting authority.
