
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Electric Arc Furnace Steelmaking Facilities
###### Other Information and Requirements
####### ยง 63.10691 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to your State, local, or tribal agency.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, the authorities contained in paragraph (c) of this section are retained by the Administrator and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.

(c) The authorities that will not be delegated to State, local, or tribal agencies are listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under 40 CFR 63.6(g).

(2) Approval of an alternative opacity emissions standard under ยง 63.6(h)(9).

(3) Approval of a major change to test methods under ยง 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A "major change to test method" is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.

(4) Approval of major change to monitoring under 40 CFR 63.8(f). A "major change to monitoring" is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.

(5) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under 40 CFR 63.10(f). A "major change to recordkeeping/reporting" is defined in 40 CFR 63.90.

(6) Approval of a program for the removal of mercury switches under ยง 63.10685(b)(2).
