
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Iron and Steel Foundries Area Sources
###### Requirements for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Large Iron and Steel Foundries
####### § 63.10895 What are my standards and management practices?

(a) If you own or operate an affected source that is a large foundry as defined in § 63.10906, you must comply with the pollution prevention management practices in §§ 63.10885 and 63.10886, the requirements in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section, and the requirements in §§ 63.10896 through 63.10900.

(b) You must operate a capture and collection system for each metal melting furnace at a new or existing iron and steel foundry unless that furnace is specifically uncontrolled as part of an emissions averaging group. Each capture and collection system must meet accepted engineering standards, such as those published by the American Conference of Governmental Industrial Hygienists.

(c) You must not discharge to the atmosphere emissions from any metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces that exceed the applicable limit in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section. When an alternative emissions limit is provided for a given emissions source, you are not restricted in the selection of which applicable alternative emissions limit is used to demonstrate compliance.

(1) For an existing iron and steel foundry, 0.8 pounds of particulate matter (PM) per ton of metal charged or 0.06 pounds of total metal HAP per ton of metal charged.

(2) For a new iron and steel foundry, 0.1 pounds of PM per ton of metal charged or 0.008 pounds of total metal HAP per ton of metal charged.

(d) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must comply with each control device parameter operating limit in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section that applies to you.

(1) For each wet scrubber applied to emissions from a metal melting furnace, you must maintain the 3-hour average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate at or above the minimum levels established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(2) For each electrostatic precipitator applied to emissions from a metal melting furnace, you must maintain the voltage and secondary current (or total power input) to the control device at or above the level established during the initial or subsequent performance test.

(e) If you own or operate a new or existing iron and steel foundry, you must not discharge to the atmosphere fugitive emissions from foundry operations that exhibit opacity greater than 20 percent (6-minute average), except for one 6-minute average per hour that does not exceed 30 percent.
