
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Iron and Steel Foundries Area Sources
###### Requirements for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Small Foundries
####### § 63.10890 What are my management practices and compliance requirements?

(a) You must comply with the pollution prevention management practices for metallic scrap and mercury switches in § 63.10885 and binder formulations in § 63.10886.

(b) You must submit an initial notification of applicability according to § 63.9(b)(2).

(c) You must submit a notification of compliance status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(i). You must send the notification of compliance status before the close of business on the 30th day after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.10881. The notification must include the following compliance certifications, as applicable:

(1) "This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for metallic scrap according to § 63.10885(a)(1)" and/or "This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for general iron and steel scrap according to § 63.10885(a)(2)."

(2) "This facility has prepared, and will operate by, written material specifications for the removal of mercury switches and a site-specific plan implementing the material specifications according to § 63.10885(b)(1) and/or "This facility participates in and purchases motor vehicle scrap only from scrap providers who participate in a program for removal of mercury switches that has been approved by the Administrator according to § 63.10885(b)(2) and has prepared a plan for participation in the EPA-approved program according to § 63.10885(b)(2)(iv)" and/or "The only materials from motor vehicles in the scrap charged to a metal melting furnace at this facility are materials recovered for their specialty alloy content in accordance with § 63.10885(b)(3) which are not reasonably expected to contain mercury switches" and/or "This facility complies with the requirements for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap in accordance with § 63.10885(b)(4)."

(3) "This facility complies with the no methanol requirement for the catalyst portion of each binder chemical formulation for a furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line according to § 63.10886."

(d) As required by § 63.10(b)(1), you must maintain files of all information (including all reports and notifications) for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record. At a minimum, the most recent 2 years of data shall be retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be retained off site. Such files may be maintained on microfilm, on a computer, on computer floppy disks, on magnetic tape disks, or on microfiche. Any records required to be maintained by this part that are submitted electronically via the EPA's Compliance and Emissions Data Reporting Interface (CEDRI) may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.

(e) You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (7) of this section according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(1).

(1) Records supporting your initial notification of applicability and your notification of compliance status according to § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Records of your written materials specifications according to § 63.10885(a) and records that demonstrate compliance with the requirements for restricted metallic scrap in § 63.10885(a)(1) and/or for the use of general scrap in § 63.10885(a)(2) and for mercury in § 63.10885(b)(1) through (3), as applicable. You must keep records documenting compliance with § 63.10885(b)(4) for scrap that does not contain motor vehicle scrap.

(3) If you are subject to the requirements for a site-specific plan for mercury switch removal under § 63.10885(b)(1), you must maintain records of the number of mercury switches removed or the weight of mercury recovered from the switches and properly managed, the estimated number of vehicles processed, and an estimate of the percent of mercury switches recovered.

(4) If you are subject to the option for approved mercury programs under § 63.10885(b)(2), you must maintain records identifying each scrap provider and documenting the scrap provider's participation in an approved mercury switch removal program. If you purchase motor vehicle scrap from a broker, you must maintain records identifying each broker and documentation that all scrap provided by the broker was obtained from other scrap providers who participate in an approved mercury switch removal program.

(5) Records to document use of binder chemical formulation that does not contain methanol as a specific ingredient of the catalyst formulation for each furfuryl alcohol warm box mold or core making line as required by § 63.10886. These records must be the Material Safety Data Sheet (provided that it contains appropriate information), a certified product data sheet, or a manufacturer's hazardous air pollutant data sheet.

(6) Records of the annual quantity and composition of each HAP-containing chemical binder or coating material used to make molds and cores. These records must be copies of purchasing records, Material Safety Data Sheets, or other documentation that provides information on the binder or coating materials used.

(7) Records of metal melt production for each calendar year.

(f) You must submit semiannual compliance reports to the Administrator according to the requirements in § 63.10899(c), (f), and (g), except that § 63.10899(c)(5) and (7) do not apply.

(g) You must submit a written notification to the Administrator of the initial classification of your facility as a small foundry as required in § 63.10880(f) and (g), as applicable, and for any subsequent reclassification as required in § 63.10881(d)(1) or (e), as applicable.

(h) Following the initial determination for an existing affected source as a small foundry, if the annual metal melt production exceeds 20,000 tons during the preceding year, you must comply with the requirements for large foundries by the applicable dates in § 63.10881(d)(1)(i) or (d)(1)(ii). Following the initial determination for a new affected source as a small foundry, if you increase the annual metal melt capacity to exceed 10,000 tons, you must comply with the requirements for a large foundry by the applicable dates in § 63.10881(e)(1).

(i) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.

(j) You must comply with the following requirements of the general provisions in subpart A of this part: §§ 63.1 through 63.5; § 63.6(a), (b), and (c); § 63.9; § 63.10(a), (b)(1), (b)(2)(xiv), (b)(3), (d)(1) and (4), and (f); and §§ 63.13 through 63.16. Requirements of the general provisions not cited in the preceding sentence do not apply to the owner or operator of a new or existing affected source that is classified as a small foundry.
