
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Iron and Steel Foundries Area Sources
###### Requirements for New and Existing Affected Sources Classified as Large Iron and Steel Foundries
####### § 63.10898 What are my performance test requirements?

(a) You must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emissions limits for each metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces that is subject to an emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) and for each building or structure housing foundry operations that is subject to the opacity limit for fugitive emissions in § 63.10895(e). You must conduct the test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status.

(1) If you own or operate an existing iron and steel foundry, you may choose to submit the results of a prior performance test for PM or total metal HAP that demonstrates compliance with the applicable emissions limit for a metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces provided the test was conducted within the last 5 years using the methods and procedures specified in this subpart and either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limit despite such process changes.

(2) If you own or operate an existing iron and steel foundry and you choose to submit the results of a prior performance test according to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must submit a written notification to the Administrator of your intent to use the previous test data no later than 60 days after your compliance date. The notification must contain a full copy of the performance test and contain information to demonstrate, if applicable, that either no process changes have been made since the test, or that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite such process changes.

(3) If you have an electric induction furnace equipped with an emissions control device at an existing foundry, you may use the test results from another electric induction furnace to demonstrate compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) provided the furnaces are similar with respect to the type of emission control device that is used, the composition of the scrap charged, furnace size, and furnace melting temperature.

(4) If you have an uncontrolled electric induction furnace at an existing foundry, you may use the test results from another electric induction furnace to demonstrate compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) provided the test results are prior to any control device and the electric induction furnaces are similar with respect to the composition of the scrap charged, furnace size, and furnace melting temperature.

(5) For electric induction furnaces that do not have emission capture systems, you may install a temporary enclosure for the purpose of representative sampling of emissions. A permanent enclosure and capture system is not required for the purpose of the performance test.

(b) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with all applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limits in § 63.10895(c) for a metal melting furnace or group of all metal melting furnaces no less frequently than every 5 years and each time you elect to change an operating limit or make a process change likely to increase HAP emissions.

(c) You must conduct each performance test under conditions representative of normal operations according to the requirements in Table 1 to this subpart and paragraphs (d) through (g) of this section. Normal operating conditions exclude periods of startup and shutdown. You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(d) To determine compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) for a metal melting furnace in a lb/ton of metal charged format, compute the process-weighted mass emissions (E) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section:

(e) To determine compliance with the applicable emissions limit in § 63.10895(c) for a group of all metal melting furnaces using emissions averaging,

(1) Determine and record the monthly average charge rate for each metal melting furnace at your iron and steel foundry for the previous calendar month; and

(2) Compute the mass-weighted PM or total metal HAP using Equation 2 of this section.

(3) For an uncontrolled electric induction furnace that is not equipped with a capture system and has not been previously tested for PM or total metal HAP, you may assume an emissions factor of 2 pounds per ton of PM or 0.13 pounds of total metal HAP per ton of metal melted in Equation 2 of this section instead of a measured test value. If the uncontrolled electric induction furnace is equipped with a capture system, you must use a measured test value.

(f) To determine compliance with the applicable PM or total metal HAP emissions limit for a metal melting furnace in § 63.10895(c) when emissions from one or more regulated furnaces are combined with other non-regulated emissions sources, you may demonstrate compliance using the procedures in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Determine the PM or total metal HAP process-weighted mass emissions for each of the regulated streams prior to the combination with other exhaust streams or control device.

(2) Measure the flow rate and PM or total metal HAP concentration of the combined exhaust stream both before and after the control device and calculate the mass removal efficiency of the control device using Equation 3 of this section.

(3) Meet the applicable emissions limit based on the calculated PM or total metal HAP process-weighted mass emissions for the regulated emissions source using Equation 4 of this section:

(g) To determine compliance with an emissions limit for situations when multiple sources are controlled by a single control device, but only one source operates at a time or other situations that are not expressly considered in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this section, you must submit a site-specific test plan to the Administrator for approval according to the requirements in § 63.7(c)(2) and (3).

(h) You must conduct each opacity test for fugitive emissions according to the requirements in § 63.6(h)(5) and Table 1 to this subpart.

(i) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the opacity limit in § 63.10895(e) no less frequently than every 6 months and each time you make a process change likely to increase fugitive emissions.

(j) In your performance test report, you must certify that the capture system operated normally during the performance test.

(k) You must establish operating limits for a new affected source during the initial performance test according to the requirements in Table 2 of this subpart.

(l) You may change the operating limits for a wet scrubber, electrostatic precipitator, or baghouse if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (l)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator of your plan to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.

(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limitation in § 63.10895(c).

(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the applicable procedures in Table 2 to this subpart.
