
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.11081 Am I subject to the requirements in this subpart?

(a) The affected source to which this subpart applies is each area source bulk gasoline terminal, pipeline breakout station, pipeline pumping station, and bulk gasoline plant identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. You are subject to the requirements in this subpart if you own or operate one or more of the affected area sources identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A bulk gasoline terminal that is not subject to the control requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart R (§§ 63.422, 63.423, and 63.424) or 40 CFR part 63, subpart CC (§§ 63.646, 63.648, 63.649, and 63.650).

(2) A pipeline breakout station that is not subject to the control requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart R (§§ 63.423 and 63.424).

(3) A pipeline pumping station.

(4) A bulk gasoline plant.

(b) If you are an owner or operator of affected sources, as defined in (a)(1) through (4) of this section, you are not required to meet the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 as a result of being subject to this subpart. However, you are still subject to the requirement to apply for and obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71 if you meet one or more of the applicability criteria found in 40 CFR 70.3(a) and (b) or 40 CFR part 71.3(a) and (b).

(c) Gasoline storage tanks that are located at affected sources identified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, and that are used only for dispensing gasoline in a manner consistent with tanks located at a gasoline dispensing facility as defined in § 63.11132, are not subject to any of the requirements in this subpart. These tanks must comply with subpart CCCCCC of this part.

(d) The loading of aviation gasoline into storage tanks at airports, and the subsequent transfer of aviation gasoline within the airport, is not subject to this subpart.

(e) The loading of gasoline into marine tank vessels at bulk facilities is not subject to this subpart.

(f) If your affected source's throughput ever exceeds an applicable throughput threshold in the definition of "bulk gasoline terminal" or in item 1 in Table 2 to this subpart, the affected source will remain subject to the requirements for sources above the threshold, even if the affected source throughput later falls below the applicable throughput threshold.

(g) For the purpose of determining gasoline throughput, as used in the definition of bulk gasoline plant and bulk gasoline terminal, the 20,000 gallons per day threshold throughput is the maximum calculated design throughout for any day, and is not an average. An enforceable State, local, or Tribal permit limitation on throughput, established prior to the applicable compliance date, may be used in lieu of the 20,000 gallons per day design capacity throughput threshold to determine whether the facility is a bulk gasoline plant or a bulk gasoline terminal.

(h) Storage tanks that are used to load gasoline into a cargo tank for the on-site redistribution of gasoline to another storage tank are subject to this subpart.

(i) For any affected source subject to the provisions of this subpart and another Federal rule, you may elect to comply only with the more stringent provisions of the applicable subparts. You must consider all provisions of the rules, including monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting. You must identify the affected source and provisions with which you will comply in your Notification of Compliance Status required under § 63.11093. You also must demonstrate in your Notification of Compliance Status that each provision with which you will comply is at least as stringent as the otherwise applicable requirements in this subpart. You are responsible for making accurate determinations concerning the more stringent provisions; noncompliance with this rule is not excused if it is later determined that your determination was in error, and, as a result, you are violating this subpart. Compliance with this rule is your responsibility, and the Notification of Compliance Status does not alter or affect that responsibility.

(j) For new or reconstructed affected sources, as specified in § 63.11082(b) and (c), recordkeeping to document applicable throughput must begin upon startup of the affected source. For existing sources, as specified in § 63.11082(d), recordkeeping to document applicable throughput must begin on January 10, 2008. Records required under this paragraph shall be kept for a period of 5 years.
