
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities
###### Testing and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11092 What testing and monitoring requirements must I meet?

(a) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the emission standard in item 1(b) of Table 2 to this subpart must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.

(1) Conduct a performance test on the vapor processing and collection systems according to either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) Use the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 of this chapter, except a reading of 500 parts per million shall be used to determine the level of leaks to be repaired under § 60.503(b) of this chapter.

(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).

(2) If you are operating your gasoline loading rack in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that requires your loading rack to meet an emission limit of 80 milligrams (mg), or less, per liter of gasoline loaded (mg/l), you may submit a statement by a responsible official of your facility certifying the compliance status of your loading rack in lieu of the test required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) If you have conducted performance testing on the vapor processing and collection systems within 5 years prior to January 10, 2008, and the test is for the affected facility and is representative of current or anticipated operating processes and conditions, you may submit the results of such testing in lieu of the test required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provided the testing was conducted using the test methods and procedures in § 60.503 of this chapter. Should the Administrator deem the prior test data unacceptable, the facility is still required to meet the requirement to conduct an initial performance test within 180 days of the compliance date specified in § 63.11083; thus, previous test reports should be submitted as soon as possible after January 10, 2008.

(4) The performance test requirements of § 63.11092(a) do not apply to flares defined in § 63.11100 and meeting the flare requirements in § 63.11(b). The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the flare and associated vapor collection system is in compliance with the requirements in § 63.11(b) and 40 CFR 60.503(a), (b), and (d).

(b) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall install, calibrate, certify, operate, and maintain, according to the manufacturer's specifications, a continuous monitoring system (CMS) while gasoline vapors are displaced to the vapor processor systems, as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section. For each facility conducting a performance test under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and for each facility utilizing the provisions of paragraphs (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section, the CMS must be installed by January 10, 2011.

(1) For each performance test conducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine a monitored operating parameter value for the vapor processing system using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. During the performance test, continuously record the operating parameter as specified under paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Where a carbon adsorption system is used, the owner or operator shall monitor the operation of the system as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) A continuous emissions monitoring system (CEMS) capable of measuring organic compound concentration shall be installed in the exhaust air stream.
