
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities
###### Testing and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11092 What testing and monitoring requirements must I meet?
######## v

() The owner or operator shall document any system malfunction, as defined in the monitoring and inspection plan, and any activation of the automated alarm or shutdown system with a written entry into a log book or other permanent form of record. Such record shall also include a description of the corrective action taken and whether such corrective actions were taken in a timely manner, as defined in the monitoring and inspection plan, as well as an estimate of the amount of gasoline loaded during the period of the malfunction.

(iv) Monitoring an alternative operating parameter or a parameter of a vapor processing system other than those listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section will be allowed upon demonstrating to the Administrator's satisfaction that the alternative parameter demonstrates continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.11088(a).

(2) Where a flare meeting the requirements in § 63.11(b) is used, a heat-sensing device, such as an ultraviolet beam sensor or a thermocouple, must be installed in proximity to the pilot light to indicate the presence of a flame.

(3) Determine an operating parameter value based on the parameter data monitored during the performance test, supplemented by engineering assessments and the manufacturer's recommendations.

(4) Provide for the Administrator's approval the rationale for the selected operating parameter value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time, including data and calculations used to develop the value and a description of why the value, monitoring frequency, and averaging time demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission standard in § 63.11088(a).

(5) If you have chosen to comply with the performance testing alternatives provided under paragraph (a)(2) or paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the monitored operating parameter value may be determined according to the provisions in paragraph (b)(5)(i) or paragraph (b)(5)(ii) of this section.

(i) Monitor an operating parameter that has been approved by the Administrator and is specified in your facility's current enforceable operating permit. At the time that the Administrator requires a new performance test, you must determine the monitored operating parameter value according to the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) Determine an operating parameter value based on engineering assessment and the manufacturer's recommendation and submit the information specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for approval by the Administrator. At the time that the Administrator requires a new performance test, you must determine the monitored operating parameter value according to the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(c) For performance tests performed after the initial test required under paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator shall document the reasons for any change in the operating parameter value since the previous performance test.

(d) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline terminal subject to the provisions of this subpart shall comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the operating parameter value for the parameters described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(2) In cases where an alternative parameter pursuant to paragraph (b)(1)(iv) or paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section is approved, each owner or operator shall operate the vapor processing system in a manner not to exceed or not to go below, as appropriate, the alternative operating parameter value.

(3) Operation of the vapor processing system in a manner exceeding or going below the operating parameter value, as appropriate, shall constitute a violation of the emission standard in § 63.11088(a), except as specified in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
