
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Distribution Bulk Terminals, Bulk Plants, and Pipeline Facilities
###### Notifications, Records, and Reports
####### ยง 63.11095 What are my reporting requirements?
######## 2,2

(4) Each instance in which malfunctions discovered during the monitoring and inspections required under ยง 63.11092(b)(1)(i)(B)() and (b)(1)(iii)(B)() were not resolved according to the necessary corrective actions described in the monitoring and inspection plan. The report shall include a description of the malfunction and the timing of the steps taken to correct the malfunction.

(5) For each occurrence of an equipment leak for which no repair attempt was made within 5 days or for which repair was not completed within 15 days after detection:

(i) The date on which the leak was detected;

(ii) The date of each attempt to repair the leak;

(iii) The reasons for the delay of repair; and

(iv) The date of successful repair.

(c) Each owner or operator of a bulk gasoline plant or a pipeline pumping station shall submit a semiannual excess emissions report, including the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3) and (b)(5) of this section, only for a 6-month period during which an excess emission event has occurred. If no excess emission events have occurred during the previous 6-month period, no report is required.

(d) Each owner or operator of an affected source under this subpart shall submit a semiannual report including the number, duration, and a brief description of each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with ยง 63.11085(a), including actions taken to correct a malfunction. The report may be submitted as a part of the semiannual compliance report, if one is required. Owners or operators of affected bulk plants and pipeline pumping stations are not required to submit reports for periods during which no malfunctions occurred.
