
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Dispensing Facilities
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### § 63.11113 When do I have to comply with this subpart?

(a) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source before January 10, 2008, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than January 10, 2008.

(2) If you start up your affected source after January 10, 2008, you must comply with the standards in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(b) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than January 10, 2011.

(c) If you have an existing affected source that becomes subject to the control requirements in this subpart because of an increase in the monthly throughput, as specified in § 63.11111(c) or § 63.11111(d), you must comply with the standards in this subpart no later than 3 years after the affected source becomes subject to the control requirements in this subpart.

(d) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source and you are complying with Table 1 to this subpart, you must comply according to paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source from November 9, 2006 to September 23, 2008, you must comply no later than September 23, 2008.

(2) If you start up your affected source after September 23, 2008, you must comply upon startup of your affected source.

(e) The initial compliance demonstration test required under § 63.11120(a)(1) and (2) must be conducted as specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you have a new or reconstructed affected source, you must conduct the initial compliance test upon installation of the complete vapor balance system.

(2) If you have an existing affected source, you must conduct the initial compliance test as specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) or (e)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) For vapor balance systems installed on or before December 15, 2009, you must test no later than 180 days after the applicable compliance date specified in paragraphs (b) or (c) of this section.

(ii) For vapor balance systems installed after December 15, 2009, you must test upon installation of the complete vapor balance system.

(f) If your GDF is subject to the control requirements in this subpart only because it loads gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, you must comply with the standards in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) or (f)(2) of this section.

(1) If your GDF is an existing facility, you must comply by January 24, 2014.

(2) If your GDF is a new or reconstructed facility, you must comply by the dates specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) If you start up your GDF after December 15, 2009, but before January 24, 2011, you must comply no later than January 24, 2011.

(ii) If you start up your GDF after January 24, 2011, you must comply upon startup of your GDF.
