
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Dispensing Facilities
###### Emission Limitations and Management Practices
####### § 63.11118 Requirements for facilities with monthly throughput of 100,000 gallons of gasoline or more.

(a) You must comply with the requirements in §§ 63.11116(a) and 63.11117(b).

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (c) of this section, you must meet the requirements in either paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Each management practice in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your GDF.

(2) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you satisfy the requirements in both paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, you will be deemed in compliance with this subsection.

(i) You operate a vapor balance system at your GDF that meets the requirements of either paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) Achieves emissions reduction of at least 90 percent.

(B) Operates using management practices at least as stringent as those in Table 1 to this subpart.

(ii) Your gasoline dispensing facility is in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that contains requirements of either paragraph (b)(2)(i)(A) or paragraph (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(c) The emission sources listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section are not required to comply with the control requirements in paragraph (b) of this section, but must comply with the requirements in § 63.11117.

(1) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 250 gallons that are constructed after January 10, 2008.

(2) Gasoline storage tanks with a capacity of less than 2,000 gallons that were constructed before January 10, 2008.

(3) Gasoline storage tanks equipped with floating roofs, or the equivalent.

(d) Cargo tanks unloading at GDF must comply with the management practices in Table 2 to this subpart.

(e) You must comply with the applicable testing requirements contained in § 63.11120.

(f) You must submit the applicable notifications as required under § 63.11124.

(g) You must keep records and submit reports as specified in §§ 63.11125 and 63.11126.

(h) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the applicable dates contained in § 63.11113.
