
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Dispensing Facilities
###### Testing and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11120 What testing and monitoring requirements must I meet?

(a) Each owner or operator, at the time of installation, as specified in § 63.11113(e), of a vapor balance system required under § 63.11118(b)(1), and every 3 years thereafter, must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must demonstrate compliance with the leak rate and cracking pressure requirements, specified in item 1(g) of Table 1 to this subpart, for pressure-vacuum vent valves installed on your gasoline storage tanks using the test methods identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.1E,-Leak Rate and Cracking Pressure of Pressure/Vacuum Vent Valves, adopted October 8, 2003 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).

(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).

(2) You must demonstrate compliance with the static pressure performance requirement specified in item 1(h) of Table 1 to this subpart for your vapor balance system by conducting a static pressure test on your gasoline storage tanks using the test methods identified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i), (a)(2)(ii), or (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) California Air Resources Board Vapor Recovery Test Procedure TP-201.3,-Determination of 2-Inch WC Static Pressure Performance of Vapor Recovery Systems of Dispensing Facilities, adopted April 12, 1996, and amended March 17, 1999 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).

(ii) Use alternative test methods and procedures in accordance with the alternative test method requirements in § 63.7(f).
