
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Source Category: Gasoline Dispensing Facilities
###### Notifications, Records, and Reports
####### § 63.11124 What notifications must I submit and when?

(a) Each owner or operator subject to the control requirements in § 63.11117 must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must submit an Initial Notification that you are subject to this subpart by May 9, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, or at the time you become subject to the control requirements in § 63.11117, unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. If your affected source is subject to the control requirements in § 63.11117 only because it loads gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, you must submit the Initial Notification by May 24, 2011, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. The notification must be submitted to the applicable EPA Regional office and delegated state authority as specified in § 63.13.

(i) The name and address of the owner and the operator.

(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the GDF.

(iii) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to this subpart and identifying the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of § 63.11117 that apply to you.

(2) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13, within 60 days of the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11113, unless you meet the requirements in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official who must certify its accuracy, must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart, and must indicate whether the facilities' monthly throughput is calculated based on the volume of gasoline loaded into all storage tanks or on the volume of gasoline dispensed from all storage tanks. If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(3) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you are operating in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that requires submerged fill as specified in § 63.11117(b), you are not required to submit an Initial Notification or a Notification of Compliance Status under paragraph (a)(1) or paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator subject to the control requirements in § 63.11118 must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) You must submit an Initial Notification that you are subject to this subpart by May 9, 2008, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later, or at the time you become subject to the control requirements in § 63.11118. If your affected source is subject to the control requirements in § 63.11118 only because it loads gasoline into fuel tanks other than those in motor vehicles, as defined in § 63.11132, you must submit the Initial Notification by May 24, 2011, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. The notification must be submitted to the applicable EPA Regional office and delegated state authority as specified in § 63.13.

(i) The name and address of the owner and the operator.

(ii) The address (i.e., physical location) of the GDF.

(iii) A statement that the notification is being submitted in response to this subpart and identifying the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of § 63.11118 that apply to you.

(2) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status to the applicable EPA Regional Office and the delegated State authority, as specified in § 63.13, in accordance with the schedule specified in § 63.9(h). The Notification of Compliance Status must be signed by a responsible official who must certify its accuracy, must indicate whether the source has complied with the requirements of this subpart, and must indicate whether the facility's throughput is determined based on the volume of gasoline loaded into all storage tanks or on the volume of gasoline dispensed from all storage tanks. If your facility is in compliance with the requirements of this subpart at the time the Initial Notification required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is due, the Notification of Compliance Status may be submitted in lieu of the Initial Notification provided it contains the information required under paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) If, prior to January 10, 2008, you satisfy the requirements in both paragraphs (b)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, you are not required to submit an Initial Notification or a Notification of Compliance Status under paragraph (b)(1) or paragraph (b)(2) of this subsection.

(i) You operate a vapor balance system at your gasoline dispensing facility that meets the requirements of either paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) or (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) Achieves emissions reduction of at least 90 percent.

(B) Operates using management practices at least as stringent as those in Table 1 to this subpart.

(ii) Your gasoline dispensing facility is in compliance with an enforceable State, local, or tribal rule or permit that contains requirements of either paragraphs (b)(3)(i)(A) or (b)(3)(i)(B) of this section.

(4) You must submit a Notification of Performance Test, as specified in § 63.9(e), prior to initiating testing required by § 63.11120(a) and (b).

(5) You must submit additional notifications specified in § 63.9, as applicable.
