
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11142 What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) You must meet all the requirements in 40 CFR part 61, subpart F, except for §§ 61.62 and 61.63.

(b) You must comply with each emission limit and standard specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to your existing affected source, and you must comply with each emission limit and standard specified in Table 2 to this subpart that applies to your new affected source.

(c) The emission limits, operating limits and work practice standards specified in this subpart apply at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown and malfunction.

(d) You must demonstrate initial compliance by the dates specified in § 63.11141.

(e) You must conduct subsequent performance testing according to the schedule specified in § 63.11905.

(f) You must meet the requirements of the applicable sections of 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHHHH, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (19) of this section, except for the purposes of complying with this subpart, where the applicable sections of 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHHHH, as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (19) of this section reference Table 1 or Table 2 to subpart HHHHHHH, reference is made to Table 1 or Table 2 to this subpart.

(1) You must comply with the requirements of § 63.11880(b).

(2) You must comply with the requirements of §§ 63.11890(a) through 63.11890(d) and are subject to § 63.11895.

(3) You must comply with the requirements of § 63.11896, except for the purposes of complying with this subpart, where § 63.11896 refers to § 63.11870(d) of subpart HHHHHHH, reference is made to § 63.11140(b)(4) of this subpart.

(4) You must comply with the requirements of § 63.11900, except for the purposes of complying with this subpart, where § 63.11900 refers to § 63.11875 of subpart HHHHHHH, reference is made to § 63.11141 of this subpart.

(5) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11910 for initial and continuous compliance for storage vessels.

(6) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11915 for equipment leaks.

(7) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11920 for initial and continuous compliance for heat exchange systems.

(8) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11925 for initial and continuous compliance for process vents.

(9) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11930 for closed vent systems.

(10) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11935 for continuous emissions monitoring systems (CEMS) and continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards for process vents.

(11) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11940 for continuous monitoring requirements for control devices required to install CPMS to meet the emission limits for process vents.

(12) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11945 for performance testing requirements for process vents.

(13) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11950 for emissions calculations to be used for an emission profile by process of batch process operations.

(14) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11955 for initial and continuous compliance requirements for other emission sources.

(15) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11956 for ambient monitoring.

(16) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11960 for initial and continuous compliance requirements for stripped resin.

(17) You must meet the requirements of § 63.11965 through § 63.11980 for general, initial and continuous compliance, test methods and calculation procedures for wastewater.

(18) You must meet the notification and reporting requirements of § 63.11985.

(19) You must meet the recordkeeping requirements of §§ 63.11990 and 63.11995.
