
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production Area Sources
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11141 What are my compliance dates?

(a) If you own or operate an existing affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(1), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(1)(i) by January 23, 2007.

(b) If you own or operate a new affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(2), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart as specified in § 63.11140(b)(2)(i) by the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up a new affected source on or before January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than January 23, 2007.

(2) If you start up a new affected source after January 23, 2007, but before or on May 20, 2011, then you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(c) If you own or operate an existing affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(1), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(1)(iii) by April 17, 2015.

(d) If you own or operate an affected source that commenced construction or reconstruction between October 6, 2006, and May 20, 2011, then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(3) by April 17, 2015.

(e) If you own or operate a new affected source as specified in § 63.11140(b)(4), then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart specified in § 63.11140(b)(4)(i) by the dates in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source between May 20, 2011, and April 17, 2012, then you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than April 17, 2012.

(2) If you start up your affected source after April 17, 2012, then you must achieve compliance with the provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
