
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production Area Sources
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.11145 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a state, local or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a state, local or tribal agency, then that agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a state, local or tribal agency within your state.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a state, local or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the state, local or tribal agency.

(1) Approval of an alternative means of emissions imitation under § 61.12(d) of this chapter.

(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 61.13(h) of this chapter. A "major change to test method" is defined in § 63.90.

(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 61.14(g) of this chapter. A "major change to monitoring" is defined in § 63.90.

(4) Approval of a major change to reporting under § 61.10. A "major change to recordkeeping/reporting" is defined in § 63.90.
