
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11146 What are the applicability provisions and compliance dates?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a primary copper smelter that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions.

(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each primary copper smelter.

(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source before October 6, 2006.

(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after October 6, 2006.

(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(d) If you own or operate an area source subject to this subpart, you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.

(e) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by January 23, 2007.

(f) If you own or operate a new affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart by the dates in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you startup a new affected source on or before January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart not later than January 23, 2007.

(2) If you startup a new affected source after January 23, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.
