
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11148 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources using batch copper converters?
######## Monitoring requirements for baghouses.

(c)To monitor the performance of each baghouse used to comply with PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section, you must use a bag leak detection system according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate a bag leak detection system for the baghouse to monitor the baghouse performance.

(2) The baghouse leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations that can effectively discern any dysfunctional leaks of the baghouse.

(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative or absolute particulate matter loadings.

(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound automatically when an increase in relative particulate emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is easily heard by plant operating personnel.

(iv) The bag leak detection system must be installed downstream of the baghouse.

(v) The bag leak detection system must be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations. The calibration of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the relative baseline output level by adjusting the sensitivity and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.

(3) If the bag leak detection system alarm sounds, you must initiate investigation of the baghouse within 24 hours of the first discovery of the alarm and, if necessary, take corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust or repair the baghouse to minimize possible exceedances of the applicable PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) You must log in ink or electronic format and maintain a record of installation, calibration, maintenance, and operation of the bag leak detection system. If the bag leak detection system alarm sounds, the records must include an identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection alarms, their cause, and an explanation of the corrective actions taken, if any.
