
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11147 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources not using batch copper converters?
######## Compliance requirements.

(b)For purposes of determining compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) You must calibrate, maintain and operate a system to continuously measure emissions of particulate matter (PM) from the smelter's main stack.

(2) All PM collected by the smelter main stack continuous PM sampling system is reported as PMunless you demonstrate to the satisfaction of the permitting authority that, due to an infrequent event, the measured PM contains a large fraction of particles greater than 10 microns in diameter.

(3) To determine the mass emissions rate, the PMconcentration as determined by the smelter main stack continuous PM sampling system is multiplied by the volumetric flow rate for the smelter main stack and any necessary conversion factors.

(4) Compliance with the PMemissions limit is demonstrated based on the average mass PMemissions rate for each 24-hour period.

(5) The results of the PM monitoring and calculated average mass PMemissions rate for each 24-hour period must be recorded and the records maintained for at least 5 years. Collected data must be available for inspection when the required laboratory analysis is completed.

(6) You must submit to the permitting authority by the 20th day of each month a report summarizing the 24-hour average mass PMemissions rates for the previous month.

(7) You may certify initial compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section based on the results of PM sampling conducted during the previous month.
