
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11148 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources using batch copper converters?
######## Monitoring requirements for electrostatic precipitators.

(b)To monitor the performance of each electrostatic precipitator used to comply with the PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section, you must use a continuous opacity monitoring system (COMS) that is installed at the outlet of each electrostatic precipitator or a common duct at the outlet of multiple electrostatic precipitators.

(1) Each COMS must meet Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(2) You must comply with the quality assurance requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) You must automatically (intrinsic to the opacity monitor) check the zero and upscale (span) calibration drifts at least once daily. For a particular COMS, the acceptable range of zero and upscale calibration materials is as defined in the applicable version of Performance Specification 1 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(ii) You must adjust the zero and span whenever the 24-hour zero drift or 24-hour span drift exceeds 4 percent opacity. The COMS must allow for the amount of excess zero and span drift measured at the 24-hour interval checks to be recorded and quantified. The optical surfaces exposed to the effluent gases must be cleaned prior to performing the zero and span drift adjustments, except for systems using automatic zero adjustments. For systems using automatic zero adjustments, the optical surfaces must be cleaned when the cumulative automatic zero compensation exceeds 4 percent opacity.

(iii) You must apply a method for producing a simulated zero opacity condition and an upscale (span) opacity condition using a certified neutral density filter or other related technique to produce a known obscuration of the light beam. All procedures applied must provide a system check of the analyzer internal optical surfaces and all electronic circuitry including the lamp and photodetector assembly.

(iv) Except during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, the COMS must be in continuous operation and must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10 second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(v) You must reduce all data from the COMS to 6-minute averages. Six-minute opacity averages must be calculated from 36 or more data points equally spaced over each 6-minute period. Data recorded during periods of system breakdowns, repairs, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments must not be included in the data averages. An arithmetic or integrated average of all data may be used.

(3) You must evaluate opacity measurements from the COMS on a 24-hour rolling average excluding periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction. If the 24-hour rolling average opacity exceeds 15 percent, you must initiate investigation of the relevant controls or equipment within 24 hours of the first discovery of the high opacity incident and, if necessary, take corrective action as soon as practicable to adjust or repair the controls or equipment to reduce the opacity average to below the 15 percent level.

(4) You must log in ink or electronic format and maintain a record of 24-hour opacity measurements performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section and any corrective actions taken, if any. A record of corrective actions taken must include the date and time during which the 24-hour rolling average opacity exceeded 15 percent and the date, time and type of the corrective action.
