
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11148 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources using batch copper converters?
######## Emissions limits and work practice standards.

(a)(1) For each copper concentrate dryer, you must not discharge to the atmosphere from the dryer vent any gases that contain total particulate matter (PM) in excess of 0.022 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf).

(2) You must exhaust the process off gas from each smelting vessel to a control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) During periods when copper ore concentrate feed is charged to and smelted to form molten copper matte and slag layers in the smelting vessel, you must exhaust the process off gas from the smelting vessel to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and to a sulfuric acid plant prior to discharge to the atmosphere.

(ii) During periods when no copper ore concentrate feed is charged to the smelting vessel but the smelting vessel remains in operation to temporarily hold molten material in the vessel before resuming copper production, you must exhaust the process off gas from the smelting vessel to an electrostatic precipitator, wet scrubber, or baghouse prior to discharge to the atmosphere.

(3) You must control the process emissions released when tapping copper matte or slag from a smelting vessel according to paragraphs (a)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes released when copper matte or slag is tapped from the smelting vessel. The design and placement of this capture system must be such that the tapping port opening, launder, and receiving vessel (e.g., ladle, slag pot) are positioned within the confines or influence of the capture system's ventilation draft during those times when the copper matte or slag is flowing from the tapping port opening.

(ii) You must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere from the capture system used to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section any gases that contain total PM in excess of 0.022 gr/dscf.

(4) For each batch copper converter, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) You must operate a primary capture system that collects the process off gas vented when one or more batch copper converters are blowing. If you operate a batch copper converter that does not use a "U"-shaped side flue located at one end of the converter, then the capture system design must include use of a primary hood that covers the entire mouth of each batch copper converter vessel when the copper converter is positioned for blowing. The capture system may use multiple intake and duct segments through which the ventilation rates are controlled independently of each other.

(ii) If you operate a batch copper converter that does not use a "U"-shaped side flue located at one end of the converter, then you must operate a secondary capture system that collects gases and fumes released from the batch copper converter when the converter mouth is rotated out partially or totally from within the confines or influence of the primary capture system's ventilation draft during charging, skimming, pouring, or holding. The capture system design must use additional hoods (e.g., sliding secondary hoods, air curtain hoods) or other capture devices (e.g., building evacuation systems). The capture system may use multiple intake and duct segments through which the ventilation rates are controlled independently of each other, and individual duct segments may be connected to separate PM control devices.

(iii) You must exhaust the process off gas captured by the primary capture system that is used to comply with paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and to a sulfuric acid plant prior to discharge to the atmosphere.

(iv) For each secondary capture system that is used to comply with paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section and is not vented to a gas cleaning system controlling PM and a sulfuric acid plant, you must not cause to be discharged to the atmosphere any gases that contain total particulate matter in excess of 0.02 grains/dscf.
