
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11148 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources using batch copper converters?
######## Performance testing.

(e)(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section based on the results of a performance test for each affected source.

(i) You may certify initial compliance for an affected source based on the results of a previous performance test conducted within the past 12 months before your compliance date.

(ii) If you have not conducted a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limits within the past 12 months before your compliance date, you must conduct a performance test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status.

(2) You must demonstrate subsequent compliance with the applicable PM emissions limits in paragraph (a) of this section based on the results of repeat performance tests conducted at least every 2.5 years for each affected source.

(3) You must conduct each performance test according to ยง 63.7(e)(1) using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses" (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the PM concentration for negative pressure baghouses or Method 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for positive pressure baghouses. A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.
