
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11148 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources using batch copper converters?
######## Reporting requirements.

(h)(1) You must prepare and submit to the permitting authority an excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report every calendar quarter. A less frequent reporting interval may used for either report as approved by the permitting authority.

(2) The summary report must include the information in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The magnitude of excess emissions computed, any conversion factor(s) used, and the date and time of commencement and completion of each time period of excess emissions. The process operating time during the reporting period.

(ii) Specific identification of each period of excess emissions that occurs during startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions of the affected facility. The nature and cause of any malfunction (if known), the corrective action taken or preventative measures adopted.

(iii) The date and time identifying each period during which the continuous monitoring system was inoperative except for zero and span checks and the nature of the system repairs or adjustments.

(iv) When no excess emissions have occurred or the continuous monitoring system(s) have not been inoperative, repaired, or adjusted, such information must be stated in the report.
