
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Primary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11149 What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?
######## Compliance requirements.

(c)(1) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2) this section within 180 days after startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status no later than 30 days after the end of the compliance demonstration.

(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions limit in paragraph (a)(1) of this section using the procedures in paragraph (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section whenever your facility is producing copper from copper concentrate.

(i) You must continuously monitor and record PM emissions, determine and record the daily (24-hour) value for each day, and calculate and record the daily average pounds of total PM per ton of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel according to the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) You must calculate the daily average at the end of each calendar day for the preceding 24-hour period.

(iii) You must maintain records of the calculations of daily averages with supporting information and data, including measurements of the weight of copper concentrate feed charged to the smelting vessel. Collected PM CEMS data must be made available for inspection.
