
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart FFFFFF - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Copper Smelting Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11155 What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?

(a) You must not discharge to the atmosphere any gases which contain particulate matter (PM) in excess of 0.002 grains per dry standard cubic foot (gr/dscf) from the exhaust vent of any capture system for a smelting furnace, melting furnace, or other vessel that contains molten material and any capture system for the transfer of molten material.

(b) For each smelting furnace, melting furnace, or other vessel that contains molten material, you must install and operate a capture system that collects the gases and fumes from the vessel and from the transfer of molten material and convey the collected gas stream to a control device.

(c) You must prepare and operate at all times according to a written plan for the selection, inspection, and pretreatment of copper scrap to minimize, to the extent practicable, the amount of oil and plastics in the scrap that is charged to the smelting furnace. Your plan must include a training program for scrap inspectors. You must keep records to demonstrate continuous compliance with the requirements of your plan. You must keep a current copy of your pollution prevention plan onsite and available for inspection.

(d) You must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system on all baghouses used to comply with the PM emissions limit in paragraph (a) of this section according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section, prepare and operate by a site-specific monitoring plan according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section, take corrective action according to paragraph (d)(3) of this section, and record information according to paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(1) Each bag leak detection system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting PM emissions at concentrations of 1 milligram per actual cubic meter (0.00044 grains per actual cubic foot) or less.

(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative PM loadings. The owner or operator must continuously record the output from the bag leak detection system using electronic or other means (e.g., using a strip chart recorder or a data logger.)

(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will sound when the system detects an increase in relative particulate loading over the alarm set point established according to paragraph (d)(1)(iv) of this section, and the alarm must be located such that it can be heard by the appropriate plant personnel.

(iv) In the initial adjustment of the bag leak detection system, you must establish, at a minimum, the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device, the alarm set points, and the alarm delay time.

(v) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the averaging period, alarm set point, or alarm delay time without approval from the Administrator or delegated authority except as provided in paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section.

(vi) Once per quarter, you may adjust the sensitivity of the bag leak detection system to account for seasonal effects, including temperature and humidity, according to the procedures identified in the site-specific monitoring plan required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(vii) You must install the bag leak detection sensor downstream of the baghouse and upstream of any wet scrubber.

(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(2) You must develop and submit to the Administrator or delegated authority for approval a site-specific monitoring plan for each bag leak detection system. You must operate and maintain the bag leak detection system according to the site-specific monitoring plan at all times. Each monitoring plan must describe the items in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Installation of the bag leak detection system;

(ii) Initial and periodic adjustment of the bag leak detection system, including how the alarm set-point will be established;

(iii) Operation of the bag leak detection system, including quality assurance procedures;

(iv) How the bag leak detection system will be maintained, including a routine maintenance schedule and spare parts inventory list;

(v) How the bag leak detection system output will be recorded and stored; and

(vi) Corrective action procedures as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. In approving the site-specific monitoring plan, the Administrator or delegated authority may allow owners and operators more than 3 hours to alleviate a specific condition that causes an alarm if the owner or operator identifies in the monitoring plan this specific condition as one that could lead to an alarm, adequately explains why it is not feasible to alleviate this specific condition within 3 hours of the time the alarm occurs, and demonstrates that the requested time will ensure alleviation of this condition as expeditiously as practicable.

(3) For each bag leak detection system, you must initiate procedures to determine the cause of every alarm within 1 hour of the alarm. Except as provided in paragraph (d)(2)(vi) of this section, you must alleviate the cause of the alarm within 3 hours of the alarm by taking whatever corrective action(s) are necessary. Corrective actions may include, but are not limited to the following:

(i) Inspecting the baghouse for air leaks, torn or broken bags or filter media, or any other condition that may cause an increase in particulate emissions;

(ii) Sealing off defective bags or filter media;

(iii) Replacing defective bags or filter media or otherwise repairing the control device;

(iv) Sealing off a defective baghouse compartment;

(v) Cleaning the bag leak detection system probe or otherwise repairing the bag leak detection system; or

(vi) Shutting down the process producing the particulate emissions.

(4) You must maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section for each bag leak detection system.

(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;

(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and

(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of an alarm were initiated, whether procedures were initiated within 1 hour of the alarm, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.

(e) You must conduct a performance test to demonstrate initial compliance with the PM emissions limit within 180 days after startup and report the results in your notification of compliance status. You must conduct each PM test according to ยง 63.7(e)(1) using the test methods and procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(2) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(3) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(4) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(5) Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to determine the PM concentration for negative pressure baghouses and Method 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) for positive pressure baghouses. The sampling time and volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dry standard cubic meters (30 dry standard cubic feet). A minimum of three valid test runs are needed to comprise a PM performance test.

(f) You must conduct subsequent performance tests to demonstrate compliance with the PM emissions limit at least once every 5 years.

(g) If you use a control device other than a baghouse, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to the Administrator for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) A description of the device;

(2) Test results collected in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing PM to the levels required by this subpart;

(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.

(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emission limits; and

(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
