
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.11175 What notifications must I submit?
######## Notification of compliance status.

(b)If you are the owner or operator of a new source, you are not required to submit a separate notification of compliance status in addition to the initial notification specified in paragraph (a) of this subpart provided you were able to certify compliance on the date of the initial notification, as part of the initial notification, and your compliance status has not since changed. If you are the owner or operator of any existing source and did not certify in the initial notification that your source is already in compliance as specified in paragraph (a) of this section, then you must submit a notification of compliance status. You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status on or before March 11, 2011. You are required to submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section with your Notification of Compliance Status:

(1) Your company's name and the street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different.

(2) The name, title, address, telephone, e-mail address (if available) and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart or an explanation of any noncompliance and a description of corrective actions being taken to achieve compliance. For paint stripping operations, the relevant requirements that you must evaluate in making this determination are specified in ยง 63.11173(a) through (d). For surface coating operations, the relevant requirements are specified in ยง 63.11173(e) through (g).

(3) The date of the Notification of Compliance Status.

(4) If you are the owner or operator of an existing affected paint stripping source that annually uses more than one ton of MeCl, you must submit a statement certifying that you have developed and are implementing a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with ยง 63.11173(b).
