
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.11169 What is the purpose of this subpart?

Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, this subpart establishes national emission standards for hazardous air pollutants (HAP) for area sources involved in any of the activities in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. This subpart also establishes requirements to demonstrate initial and continuous compliance with the emission standards contained herein.

(a) Paint stripping operations that involve the use of chemical strippers that contain methylene chloride (MeCl), Chemical Abstract Service number 75092, in paint removal processes;

(b) Autobody refinishing operations that encompass motor vehicle and mobile equipment spray-applied surface coating operations;

(c) Spray application of coatings containing compounds of chromium (Cr), lead (Pb), manganese (Mn), nickel (Ni), or cadmium (Cd), collectively referred to as the target HAP to any part or product made of metal or plastic, or combinations of metal and plastic that are not motor vehicles or mobile equipment.

(d) This subpart does not apply to any of the activities described in paragraph (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Surface coating or paint stripping performed on site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the National Nuclear Security Administration.

(2) Surface coating or paint stripping of military munitions, as defined in ยง 63.11180, manufactured by or for the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such State) or equipment directly and exclusively used for the purposes of transporting military munitions.

(3) Surface coating or paint stripping performed by individuals on their personal vehicles, possessions, or property, either as a hobby or for maintenance of their personal vehicles, possessions, or property. This subpart also does not apply when these operations are performed by individuals for others without compensation. An individual who spray applies surface coating to more than two motor vehicles or pieces of mobile equipment per year is subject to the requirements in this subpart that pertain to motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating regardless of whether compensation is received.

(4) Surface coating or paint stripping that meets the definition of "research and laboratory activities" in ยง 63.11180.

(5) Surface coating or paint stripping that meets the definition of "quality control activities" in ยง 63.11180.

(6) Surface coating or paint stripping activities that are covered under another area source NESHAP.
