
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### ยง 63.11175 What notifications must I submit?
######## Initial notification.

(a)If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping operation using paint strippers containing MeCl and/or a surface coating operation subject to this subpart, you must submit the initial notification required by ยง 63.9(b). For a new affected source, you must submit the Initial Notification no later than 180 days after initial startup, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or July 7, 2008, whichever is later. For an existing affected source, you must submit the initial notification no later than January 11, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart. The initial notification must provide the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) The company name, if applicable.

(2) The name, title, street address, telephone number, e-mail address (if available), and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official;

(3) The street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different. If the source is a motor vehicle or mobile equipment surface coating operation that repairs vehicles at the customer's location, rather than at a fixed location, such as a collision repair shop, the notification should state this and indicate the physical location where records are kept to demonstrate compliance;

(4) An identification of the relevant standard (i.e., this subpart, 40 CFR part 63, subpart HHHHHH);

(5) A brief description of the type of operation as specified in paragraph (a)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) For all surface coating operations, indicate whether the source is a motor vehicle and mobile equipment surface coating operation or a miscellaneous surface coating operation, and include the number of spray booths and preparation stations, and the number of painters usually employed at the operation.

(ii) For paint stripping operations, identify the method(s) of paint stripping employed (e.g., chemical, mechanical) and the substrates stripped (e.g., wood, plastic, metal).

(6) Each paint stripping operation must indicate whether they plan to annually use more than one ton of MeCl after the compliance date.

(7) A statement of whether the source is already in compliance with each of the relevant requirements of this subpart, or whether the source will be brought into compliance by the compliance date. For paint stripping operations, the relevant requirements that you must evaluate in making this determination are specified in ยง 63.11173(a) through (d) of this subpart. For surface coating operations, the relevant requirements are specified in ยง 63.11173(e) through (g) of this subpart.

(8) If your source is a new source, you must certify in the initial notification whether the source is in compliance with each of the requirements of this subpart. If your source is an existing source, you may certify in the initial notification that the source is already in compliance. If you are certifying in the initial notification that the source is in compliance with the relevant requirements of this subpart, then include also a statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address (if available) and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification, a statement that the source has complied with all the relevant standards of this subpart, and that this initial notification also serves as the notification of compliance status.
