
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources
###### Notifications, Reports, and Records
####### § 63.11176 What reports must I submit?
######## Annual notification of changes report.

(a)If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping, motor vehicle or mobile equipment, or miscellaneous surface coating affected source, you are required to submit a report in each calendar year in which information previously submitted in either the initial notification required by § 63.11175(a), Notification of Compliance, or a previous annual notification of changes report submitted under this paragraph, has changed. Deviations from the relevant requirements in § 63.11173(a) through (d) or § 63.11173(e) through (g) on the date of the report will be deemed to be a change. This includes notification when paint stripping affected sources that have not developed and implemented a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) used more than one ton of MeCl in the previous calendar year. The annual notification of changes report must be submitted prior to March 1 of each calendar year when reportable changes have occurred and must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (2) of this section.

(1) Your company's name and the street address (physical location) of the affected source and the street address where compliance records are maintained, if different.

(2) The name, title, address, telephone, e-mail address (if available) and signature of the owner and operator, or other certifying company official, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart or an explanation of any noncompliance and a description of corrective actions being taken to achieve compliance.

(b) If you are the owner or operator of a paint stripping affected source that has not developed and implemented a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) of this subpart, you must submit a report for any calendar year in which you use more than one ton of MeCl. This report must be submitted no later than March 1 of the following calendar year. You must also develop and implement a written MeCl minimization plan in accordance with § 63.11173(b) no later than December 31. You must then submit a Notification of Compliance Status report containing the information specified in § 63.11175(b) by March 1 of the following year and comply with the requirements for paint stripping operations that annually use more than one ton of MeCl in §§ 63.11173(d) and 63.11177(f).
