
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.11196 What are my compliance dates?

(a) If you own or operate an existing affected boiler, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) If the existing affected boiler is subject to a work practice or management practice standard of a tune-up, you must achieve compliance with the work practice or management practice standard no later than March 21, 2014.

(2) If the existing affected boiler is subject to emission limits, you must achieve compliance with the emission limits no later than March 21, 2014.

(3) If the existing affected boiler is subject to the energy assessment requirement, you must achieve compliance with the energy assessment requirement no later than March 21, 2014.

(b) If you start up a new affected source on or before May 20, 2011, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart no later than May 20, 2011.

(c) If you start up a new affected source after May 20, 2011, you must achieve compliance with the provisions of this subpart upon startup of your affected source.

(d) If you own or operate an industrial, commercial, or institutional boiler and would be subject to this subpart except for the exemption in ยง 63.11195(b) for commercial and industrial solid waste incineration units covered by 40 CFR part 60, subpart CCCC or subpart DDDD, and you cease combusting solid waste, you must be in compliance with this subpart on the effective date of the waste to fuel switch as specified in ยง 60.2145(a)(2) and (3) of subpart CCCC or ยง 60.2710(a)(2) and (3) of subpart DDDD.
