
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### What This Subpart Covers
####### ยง 63.11195 Are any boilers not subject to this subpart?
######## e.g.,

(c) A boiler required to have a permit under section 3005 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act or covered by subpart EEE of this part (hazardous waste boilers).

(d) A boiler that is used specifically for research and development. This exemption does not include boilers that solely or primarily provide steam (or heat) to a process or for heating at a research and development facility. This exemption does not prohibit the use of the steam (or heat) generated from the boiler during research and development, however, the boiler must be concurrently and primarily engaged in research and development for the exemption to apply.

(e) A gas-fired boiler as defined in this subpart.

(f) A hot water heater as defined in this subpart.

(g) Any boiler that is used as a control device to comply with another subpart of this part, or part 60, part 61, or part 65 of this chapter provided that at least 50 percent of the average annual heat input during any 3 consecutive calendar years to the boiler is provided by regulated gas streams that are subject to another standard.

(h) Temporary boilers as defined in this subpart.

(i) Residential boilers as defined in this subpart.

(j) Electric boilers as defined in this subpart.

(k) An electric utility steam generating unit (EGU) as defined in this subpart.
