
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11210 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?
######## e.g.,

(j) For boilers located at existing major sources of HAP that limit their potential to emit (make a physical change or take a permit limit) such that the existing major source becomes an area source, you must comply with the applicable provisions as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Any such existing boiler at the existing source must demonstrate compliance with subpart JJJJJJ within 180 days of the later of March 21, 2014 or upon the existing major source commencing operation as an area source.

(2) Any new or reconstructed boiler at the existing source must demonstrate compliance with subpart JJJJJJ within 180 days of the later of March 21, 2011 or startup.

(3) Notification of such changes must be submitted according to § 63.11225(g).

(k) For existing affected boilers that have not operated on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel between the effective date of the rule and the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11196, you must comply with the applicable provisions as specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must complete the initial compliance demonstration, if subject to the emission limits in Table 1 to this subpart, as specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected boiler on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2).

(2) You must complete the initial performance tune-up, if subject to the tune-up requirements in § 63.11223, by following the procedures described in § 63.11223(b) no later than 30 days after the re-start of the affected boiler on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel.

(3) You must complete the one-time energy assessment, if subject to the energy assessment requirements specified in Table 2 to this subpart, no later than the compliance date specified in § 63.11196.
