
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11210 What are my initial compliance requirements and by what date must I conduct them?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with each emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart that applies to you by either conducting performance (stack) tests, as applicable, according to § 63.11212 and Table 4 to this subpart or, for mercury, conducting fuel analyses, as applicable, according to § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart.

(b) For existing affected boilers that have applicable emission limits, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limits no later than 180 days after the compliance date that is specified in § 63.11196 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2), except as provided in paragraph (k) of this section.

(c) For existing affected boilers that have applicable work practice standards, management practices, or emission reduction measures, you must demonstrate initial compliance no later than the compliance date that is specified in § 63.11196 and according to the applicable provisions in § 63.7(a)(2), except as provided in paragraph (j) of this section.

(d) For new or reconstructed affected boilers that have applicable emission limits, you must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable emission limits no later than 180 days after March 21, 2011 or within 180 days after startup of the source, whichever is later, according to § 63.7(a)(2)(ix).

(e) For new or reconstructed oil-fired boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 14, 2016, that combust only oil that contains no more than 0.50 weight percent sulfur or a mixture of 0.50 weight percent sulfur oil with other fuels not subject to a particulate matter (PM) emission limit under this subpart and that do not use a post-combustion technology (except a wet scrubber) to reduce PM or sulfur dioxide emissions, you are not subject to the PM emission limit in Table 1 of this subpart until September 14, 2019, providing you monitor and record on a monthly basis the type of fuel combusted. If you intend to burn a new type of fuel or fuel mixture that does not meet the requirements of this paragraph, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel. On and after September 14, 2019, you are subject to the PM emission limit in Table 1 of this subpart and you must demonstrate compliance with the PM emission limit in Table 1 no later than March 12, 2020.

(f) For new or reconstructed boilers that combust only ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel as defined in § 63.11237, you are not subject to the PM emission limit in Table 1 of this subpart providing you monitor and record on a monthly basis the type of fuel combusted. If you intend to burn a fuel other than ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel or gaseous fuels as defined in § 63.11237, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel.

(g) For new or reconstructed affected boilers that have applicable work practice standards or management practices, you are not required to complete an initial performance tune-up, but you are required to complete the applicable biennial or 5-year tune-up as specified in § 63.11223 no later than 25 months or 61 months, respectively, after the initial startup of the new or reconstructed affected source.

(h) For affected boilers that ceased burning solid waste consistent with § 63.11196(d) and for which your initial compliance date has passed, you must demonstrate compliance within 60 days of the effective date of the waste-to-fuel switch as specified in § 60.2145(a)(2) and (3) of subpart CCCC or § 60.2710(a)(2) and (3) of subpart DDDD. If you have not conducted your compliance demonstration for this subpart within the previous 12 months, you must complete all compliance demonstrations for this subpart before you commence or recommence combustion of solid waste.

(i) For affected boilers that switch fuels or make a physical change to the boiler that results in the applicability of a different subcategory within subpart JJJJJJ or the boiler becoming subject to subpart JJJJJJ, you must demonstrate compliance within 180 days of the effective date of the fuel switch or the physical change. Notification of such changes must be submitted according to § 63.11225(g).
