
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11211 How do I demonstrate initial compliance with the emission limits?

(a) For affected boilers that demonstrate compliance with any of the emission limits of this subpart through performance (stack) testing, your initial compliance requirements include conducting performance tests according to § 63.11212 and Table 4 to this subpart, conducting a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler according to § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart, establishing operating limits according to § 63.11222, Table 6 to this subpart and paragraph (b) of this section, as applicable, and conducting CMS performance evaluations according to § 63.11224. For affected boilers that burn a single type of fuel, you are exempted from the compliance requirements of conducting a fuel analysis for each type of fuel burned in your boiler. For purposes of this subpart, boilers that use a supplemental fuel only for startup, unit shutdown, and transient flame stability purposes still qualify as affected boilers that burn a single type of fuel, and the supplemental fuel is not subject to the fuel analysis requirements under § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart.

(b) You must establish parameter operating limits according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) For a wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and minimum scrubber pressure drop as defined in § 63.11237, as your operating limits during the three-run performance stack test. If you use a wet scrubber and you conduct separate performance stack tests for PM and mercury emissions, you must establish one set of minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits. If you conduct multiple performance stack tests, you must set the minimum scrubber liquid flow rate and pressure drop operating limits at the highest minimum values established during the performance stack tests.

(2) For an electrostatic precipitator operated with a wet scrubber, you must establish the minimum total secondary electric power (secondary voltage and secondary current), as defined in § 63.11237, as your operating limits during the three-run performance stack test.

(3) For activated carbon injection, you must establish the minimum activated carbon injection rate, as defined in § 63.11237, as your operating limit during the three-run performance stack test.

(4) The operating limit for boilers with fabric filters that demonstrate continuous compliance through bag leak detection systems is that a bag leak detection system be installed according to the requirements in § 63.11224, and that each fabric filter must be operated such that the bag leak detection system alarm does not sound more than 5 percent of the operating time during a 6-month period.

(c) If you elect to demonstrate compliance with an applicable mercury emission limit through fuel analysis, you must conduct fuel analyses according to § 63.11213 and Table 5 to this subpart and follow the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) If you burn more than one fuel type, you must determine the fuel type, or mixture, you could burn in your boiler that would result in the maximum emission rates of mercury.

(2) You must determine the 90th percentile confidence level fuel mercury concentration of the composite samples analyzed for each fuel type using Equation 1 of this section.

(3) To demonstrate compliance with the applicable mercury emission limit, the emission rate that you calculate for your boiler using Equation 1 of this section must be less than the applicable mercury emission limit.
