
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Initial Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11212 What stack tests and procedures must I use for the performance tests?

(a) You must conduct all performance tests according to ยง 63.7(c), (d), (f), and (h). You must also develop a site-specific test plan according to the requirements in ยง 63.7(c).

(b) You must conduct each stack test according to the requirements in Table 4 to this subpart. Boilers that use a CEMS for carbon monoxide (CO) are exempt from the initial CO performance testing in Table 4 to this subpart and the oxygen concentration operating limit requirement specified in Table 3 to this subpart.

(c) You must conduct performance stack tests at the representative operating load conditions while burning the type of fuel or mixture of fuels that have the highest emissions potential for each regulated pollutant, and you must demonstrate initial compliance and establish your operating limits based on these performance stack tests. For subcategories with more than one emission limit, these requirements could result in the need to conduct more than one performance stack test. Following each performance stack test and until the next performance stack test, you must comply with the operating limit for operating load conditions specified in Table 3 to this subpart.

(d) You must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs for each performance stack test required in this section, as specified in ยง 63.7(e)(3) and in accordance with the provisions in Table 4 to this subpart.

(e) To determine compliance with the emission limits, you must use the F-Factor methodology and equations in sections 12.2 and 12.3 of EPA Method 19 of appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter to convert the measured PM concentrations and the measured mercury concentrations that result from the performance test to pounds per million Btu heat input emission rates.
