
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11225 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) You must submit the notifications specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section to the administrator.

(1) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.7(b); 63.8(e) and (f); and 63.9(b) through (e), (g), and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections except as specified in paragraphs (a)(2) and (4) of this section.

(2) An Initial Notification must be submitted no later than January 20, 2014 or within 120 days after the source becomes subject to the standard.

(3) If you are required to conduct a performance stack test you must submit a Notification of Intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 days before the performance stack test is scheduled to begin.

(4) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11196 unless you own or operate a new boiler subject only to a requirement to conduct a biennial or 5-year tune-up or you must conduct a performance stack test. If you own or operate a new boiler subject to a requirement to conduct a tune-up, you are not required to prepare and submit a Notification of Compliance Status for the tune-up. If you must conduct a performance stack test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 60 days of completing the performance stack test. You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (vi) of this section. The Notification of Compliance Status must include the information and certification(s) of compliance in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (v) of this section, as applicable, and signed by a responsible official.

(i) You must submit the information required in § 63.9(h)(2), except the information listed in § 63.9(h)(2)(i)(B), (D), (E), and (F). If you conduct any performance tests or CMS performance evaluations, you must submit that data as specified in paragraph (e) of this section. If you conduct any opacity or visible emission observations, or other monitoring procedures or methods, you must submit that data to the Administrator at the appropriate address listed in § 63.13.

(ii) "This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11214 to conduct an initial tune-up of the boiler."

(iii) "This facility has had an energy assessment performed according to § 63.11214(c)."

(iv) For units that install bag leak detection systems: "This facility complies with the requirements in § 63.11224(f)."

(v) For units that do not qualify for a statutory exemption as provided in section 129(g)(1) of the Clean Air Act: "No secondary materials that are solid waste were combusted in any affected unit."
