
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11224 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?
######## e.g.,

(iii) Performance evaluation procedures and acceptance criteria (calibrations).

(2) In your site-specific monitoring plan, you must also address paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Ongoing operation and maintenance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(c)(1), (3), and (4)(ii).

(ii) Ongoing data quality assurance procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.8(d).

(iii) Ongoing recordkeeping and reporting procedures in accordance with the general requirements of § 63.10(c), (e)(1), and (e)(2)(i).

(3) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CMS in accordance with your site-specific monitoring plan.

(4) You must operate and maintain the CMS in continuous operation according to the site-specific monitoring plan.

(d) If you have an operating limit that requires the use of a CMS, you must install, operate, and maintain each CPMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation every 15 minutes. You must have data values from a minimum of four successive cycles of operation representing each of the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed, to have a valid hour of data.

(2) You must calculate hourly arithmetic averages from each hour of CPMS data in units of the operating limit and determine the 30-day rolling average of all recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.11221(c). Calculate a 30-day rolling average from all of the hourly averages collected for the 30-day operating period using Equation 3 of this section.

(3) For purposes of collecting data, you must operate the CPMS as specified in § 63.11221(b). For purposes of calculating data averages, you must use all the data collected during all periods in assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.11221(c). Periods when CPMS data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.11221(d).

(4) Record the results of each inspection, calibration, and validation check.

(e) If you have an applicable opacity operating limit under this rule, you must install, operate, certify and maintain each COMS according to the procedures in paragraphs (e)(1) through (8) of this section by the compliance date specified in § 63.11196.

(1) Each COMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to Performance Specification 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8 and according to Performance Specification 1 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(3) As specified in § 63.8(c)(4)(i), each COMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-second period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-minute period.

(4) The COMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(5) You must include in your site-specific monitoring plan procedures and acceptance criteria for operating and maintaining each COMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(d). At a minimum, the monitoring plan must include a daily calibration drift assessment, a quarterly performance audit, and an annual zero alignment audit of each COMS.

(6) You must operate and maintain each COMS according to the requirements in the monitoring plan and the requirements of § 63.8(e). You must identify periods the COMS is out of control including any periods that the COMS fails to pass a daily calibration drift assessment, a quarterly performance audit, or an annual zero alignment audit.

(7) You must calculate and record 6-minute averages from the opacity monitoring data and determine and record the daily block average of recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.11221(c).

(8) For purposes of collecting opacity data, you must operate the COMS as specified in § 63.11221(b). For purposes of calculating data averages, you must use all the data collected during all periods in assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.11221(c). Periods when COMS data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.11221(d).

(f) If you use a fabric filter bag leak detection system to comply with the requirements of this subpart, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and continuously operate the bag leak detection system as specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) You must install and operate a bag leak detection system for each exhaust stack of the fabric filter.

(2) Each bag leak detection system must be installed, operated, calibrated, and maintained in a manner consistent with the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations and in accordance with EPA-454/R-98-015 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14).

(3) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter emissions at concentrations of 10 milligrams per actual cubic meter or less.

(4) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative or absolute particulate matter loadings.

(5) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with a device to continuously record the output signal from the sensor.

(6) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an audible or visual alarm system that will activate automatically when an increase in relative particulate matter emissions over a preset level is detected. The alarm must be located where it is easily heard or seen by plant operating personnel.

(7) For positive pressure fabric filter systems that do not duct all compartments or cells to a common stack, a bag leak detection system must be installed in each baghouse compartment or cell.

(8) Where multiple bag leak detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.
