
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11220 When must I conduct subsequent performance tests or fuel analyses?

(a) If your boiler has a heat input capacity of 10 million Btu per hour or greater, you must conduct all applicable performance (stack) tests according to § 63.11212 on a triennial basis, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section. Triennial performance tests must be completed no more than 37 months after the previous performance test.

(b) For new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the PM emission limit, if your boiler's performance test results show that your PM emissions are equal to or less than half of the PM emission limit, you do not need to conduct further performance tests for PM until September 14, 2021, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements and must comply with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A performance test for PM must be conducted by September 14, 2021.

(2) If your performance test results show that your PM emissions are equal to or less than half of the PM emission limit, you may choose to conduct performance tests for PM every fifth year. Each such performance test must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous performance test.

(3) If you intend to burn a new type of fuel other than ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel or gaseous fuels as defined in § 63.11237, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type.

(4) If your performance test results show that your PM emissions are greater than half of the PM emission limit, you must conduct subsequent performance tests on a triennial basis as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) For new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the PM emission limit, if your boiler's performance test results show that your PM emissions are equal to or less than half of the PM emission limit, you may choose to conduct performance tests for PM every fifth year, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements and must comply with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each such performance test must be conducted no more than 61 months after the previous performance test.

(2) If you intend to burn a new type of fuel other than ultra-low-sulfur liquid fuel or gaseous fuels as defined in § 63.11237, you must conduct a performance test within 60 days of burning the new fuel type.

(3) If your performance test results show that your PM emissions are greater than half of the PM emission limit, you must conduct subsequent performance tests on a triennial basis as specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(d) If you demonstrate compliance with the mercury emission limit based on fuel analysis, you must conduct a fuel analysis according to § 63.11213 for each type of fuel burned as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section. If you plan to burn a new type of fuel or fuel mixture, you must conduct a fuel analysis before burning the new type of fuel or mixture in your boiler. You must recalculate the mercury emission rate using Equation 1 of § 63.11211. The recalculated mercury emission rate must be less than the applicable emission limit.

(1) For existing boilers and new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the mercury emission limit, if the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are measured to be equal to or less than half of the mercury emission limit, you do not need to conduct further fuel analysis sampling until September 14, 2017, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements and must comply with the provisions as specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Fuel analysis sampling for mercury must be conducted by September 14, 2017.

(ii) If your fuel analysis results show that the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are equal to or less than half of the mercury emission limit, you may choose to conduct fuel analysis sampling for mercury every 12 months.

(2) For new or reconstructed boilers that commenced construction or reconstruction after September 14, 2016, when demonstrating initial compliance with the mercury emission limit, if the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are measured to be equal to or less than half of the mercury emission limit, you may choose to conduct fuel analysis sampling for mercury every 12 months, but must continue to comply with all applicable operating limits and monitoring requirements.

(3) When demonstrating compliance with the mercury emission limit, if the mercury constituents in the fuel or fuel mixture are greater than half of the mercury emission limit, you must conduct quarterly sampling.

(e) For existing affected boilers that have not operated on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel since the previous compliance demonstration and more than 3 years have passed since the previous compliance demonstration, you must complete your subsequent compliance demonstration no later than 180 days after the re-start of the affected boiler on solid fossil fuel, biomass, or liquid fuel.
