
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart JJJJJJ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Industrial, Commercial, and Institutional Boilers Area Sources
###### Continuous Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11224 What are my monitoring, installation, operation, and maintenance requirements?

(a) If your boiler is subject to a CO emission limit in Table 1 to this subpart, you must either install, operate, and maintain a CEMS for CO and oxygen according to the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (6) of this section, or install, calibrate, operate, and maintain an oxygen analyzer system, as defined in § 63.11237, according to the manufacturer's recommendations and paragraphs (a)(7) and (d) of this section, as applicable, by the compliance date specified in § 63.11196. Where a certified CO CEMS is used, the CO level shall be monitored at the outlet of the boiler, after any add-on controls or flue gas recirculation system and before release to the atmosphere. Boilers that use a CO CEMS are exempt from the initial CO performance testing and oxygen concentration operating limit requirements specified in § 63.11211(a) of this subpart. Oxygen monitors and oxygen trim systems must be installed to monitor oxygen in the boiler flue gas, boiler firebox, or other appropriate intermediate location.

(1) Each CO CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to the applicable procedures under Performance Specification 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B, and each oxygen CEMS must be installed, operated, and maintained according to Performance Specification 3 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B. Both the CO and oxygen CEMS must also be installed, operated, and maintained according to the site-specific monitoring plan developed according to paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) You must conduct a performance evaluation of each CEMS according to the requirements in § 63.8(e) and according to Performance Specifications 3 and 4, 4A, or 4B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix B.

(3) Each CEMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) every 15 minutes. You must have CEMS data values from a minimum of four successive cycles of operation representing each of the four 15-minute periods in an hour, or at least two 15-minute data values during an hour when CEMS calibration, quality assurance, or maintenance activities are being performed, to have a valid hour of data.

(4) The CEMS data must be reduced as specified in § 63.8(g)(2).

(5) You must calculate hourly averages, corrected to 3 percent oxygen, from each hour of CO CEMS data in parts per million CO concentrations and determine the 10-day rolling average of all recorded readings, except as provided in § 63.11221(c). Calculate a 10-day rolling average from all of the hourly averages collected for the 10-day operating period using Equation 2 of this section.

(6) For purposes of collecting CO data, you must operate the CO CEMS as specified in § 63.11221(b). For purposes of calculating data averages, you must use all the data collected during all periods in assessing compliance, except that you must exclude certain data as specified in § 63.11221(c). Periods when CO data are unavailable may constitute monitoring deviations as specified in § 63.11221(d).

(7) You must operate the oxygen analyzer system at or above the minimum oxygen level that is established as the operating limit according to Table 6 to this subpart when firing the fuel or fuel mixture utilized during the most recent CO performance stack test. Operation of oxygen trim systems to meet these requirements shall not be done in a manner which compromises furnace safety.

(b) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must maintain each operating limit in Table 3 to this subpart that applies to your boiler as specified in Table 7 to this subpart. If you use a control device not covered in Table 3 to this subpart, or you wish to establish and monitor an alternative operating limit and alternative monitoring parameters, you must apply to the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Administrator for approval of alternative monitoring under § 63.8(f).

(c) If you demonstrate compliance with any applicable emission limit through stack testing and subsequent compliance with operating limits, you must develop a site-specific monitoring plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section. This requirement also applies to you if you petition the EPA Administrator for alternative monitoring parameters under § 63.8(f).

(1) For each CMS required in this section, you must develop, and submit to the EPA Administrator for approval upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must submit this site-specific monitoring plan (if requested) at least 60 days before your initial performance evaluation of your CMS.
