
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLLLLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Acrylic and Modacrylic Fibers Production Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11396 What are the standards and compliance requirements for new sources?

(a) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for each process vent where the AN concentration of the vent stream is equal to or greater than 50 parts per million by volume (ppmv) and the average flow rate is equal to or greater than 0.005 cubic meters per minute, as determined by the applicability and assessment procedures in § 63.1104 of subpart YY.

(1) You must reduce emissions of AN by 98 weight-percent or limit the concentration of AN in the emissions to no more than 20 ppmv, whichever is less stringent, by venting emissions through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements for process vents in § 63.982(a)(2) of subpart SS; or

(2) You must reduce emissions of AN by using a flare that meets the requirements of § 63.987 of subpart SS.

(b) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for each fiber spinning line that uses a spin dope produced from either a suspension polymerization process or solution polymerization process.

(1) You must reduce the AN concentration of the spin dope to less than 100 ppmw; or

(2) You must design and operate a fiber spinning line enclosure according to the requirements in § 63.1103(b)(4) of subpart YY and reduce AN emissions by 85 weight-percent or more by venting emissions from the enclosure through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements in § 63.982(a)(2) of subpart SS; or

(3) You must reduce AN emissions from the spinning line to less than or equal to 0.5 pounds of AN per ton (lb/ton) of acrylic and modacrylic fiber produced.

(c) You must comply with the requirements for storage vessels holding acrylonitrile as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY.

(d) You must comply with the requirements for equipment that contains or contacts 10 percent by weight or more of AN and operates 300 hours per year as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY.

(e) You must comply with the requirements for process wastewater and maintenance wastewater from an acrylic and modacrylic fibers production process as shown in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY. Process wastewater and maintenance wastewater that contains AN and is not subject to the requirements in Table 2 to § 63.1103(b)(3)(i) of subpart YY must be treated in a wastewater treatment system.

(f) You must comply with all testing, monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements in subpart SS (for process vents); subpart SS or WW (for AN tanks); subpart TT or UU (for equipment leaks); and subpart G (for process wastewater and maintenance wastewater). Only the provisions in §§ 63.132 through 63.148 and §§ 63.151 through 63.153 of subpart G apply to this subpart.

(g) If you use a control device other than a wet scrubber, flare, incinerator, boiler, process heater, absorber, condenser, or carbon adsorber, you must prepare and submit a monitoring plan to the Administrator for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) A description of the device;

(2) Test results collected in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing AN to the levels required by this subpart;

(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.

(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and

(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.
