
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart LLLLLL - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Acrylic and Modacrylic Fibers Production Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11395 What are the standards and compliance requirements for existing sources?

(a) You must operate and maintain capture or enclosure systems that collect the gases and fumes containing acrylonitrile (AN) released from polymerization process equipment and monomer recovery process equipment and convey the collected gas stream through a closed vent system to a control device.

(b) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you must not discharge to the atmosphere through any combination of stacks or other vents captured gases containing AN in excess of the emissions limits in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) 0.2 pounds of AN per hour (lb/hr) from the control device for polymerization process equipment.

(2) 0.05 lb/hr of AN from the control device for monomer recovery process equipment.

(3) If you do not comply with the emissions limits in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, you must comply with the new source standards for process vents in § 63.11396(a).

(c) If you use a wet scrubber control device, you must comply with the control device parameter operating limits in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must maintain the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber used to control polymerization process equipment at a minimum of 50 liters per minute (l/min). If the water flow to the wet scrubber ceases, the polymerization reactor(s) must be shut down.

(2) You must maintain the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber used to control monomer recovery process equipment at a minimum of 30 l/min.

(d) You must comply with the requirements of the New Source Performance Standard for Volatile Organic Liquids (40 CFR part 60, subpart Kb) for vessels that store acrylonitrile. The provisions in 40 CFR 60.114b do not apply to this subpart.

(e) You must operate continuous parameter monitoring systems (CPMS) to measure and record the water flow rate to a wet scrubber control device for the polymerization process equipment and the monomer recovery process equipment. The CPMS must record the water flow rate at least every 15 minutes and determine and record the daily average water flow rate.

(f) You must determine compliance with the daily average control device parameter operating limits for water flow rate in paragraph (c) of this section on a monthly basis and submit a summary report to EPA or the delegated authority on a quarterly basis. Should the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber control device for the polymerization process equipment fall below 50 l/min or the daily average water flow rate to a wet scrubber control device for the monomer recovery process equipment fall below 30 l/min, you must notify EPA or the delegated authority in writing within 10 days of the identification of the exceedance.

(g) You must keep records of each monthly compliance determination for the water flow rate operating parameter limits in a permanent form suitable for inspection and retain the records for at least 2 years following the date of each compliance determination.

(h) You must conduct a performance test for each control device for polymerization process equipment and monomer recovery process equipment subject to an emissions limit in paragraph (b) of this section within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status. You must conduct each test according to the requirements in § 63.7 of subpart A and § 63.1104 of subpart YY. You are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted using the methods specified in § 63.1104 of subpart YY and either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(i) If you do not use a wet scrubber control device for the polymerization process equipment or the monomer recovery process equipment, you must submit a monitoring plan to EPA or the delegated authority for approval. Each plan must contain the information in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) A description of the device;

(2) Test results collected in accordance with § 63.1104 of subpart YY verifying the performance of the device for reducing AN to the levels required by this subpart;

(3) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system.

(4) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and

(5) Operating parameter limits based on monitoring data collected during the performance test.

(j) If you do not operate a monomer recovery process that removes AN prior to spinning, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (j)(1), (2), or (3) of this section for each fiber spinning line that uses a spin dope produced from either a suspension polymerization process or solution polymerization process.

(1) You must reduce the AN concentration of the spin dope to less than 100 parts per million by weight (ppmw); or

(2) You must design and operate a fiber spinning line enclosure according to the requirements in § 63.1103(b)(4) of subpart YY and reduce AN emissions by 85 weight-percent or more by venting emissions from the enclosure through a closed vent system to any combination of control devices meeting the requirements in § 63.982(a)(2) of subpart SS; or

(3) You must reduce AN emissions from the spinning line to less than or equal to 0.5 pounds of AN per ton (lb/ton) of acrylic and modacrylic fiber produced.

(k) You may change the operating limits for a wet scrubber if you meet the requirements in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Submit a written notification to the Administrator to conduct a new performance test to revise the operating limit.

(2) Conduct a performance test to demonstrate compliance with the applicable emissions limit for a control device in paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) Establish revised operating limits according to the procedures in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Using the CPMS required in paragraph (e) of this section, measure and record the water flow rate to the wet scrubber in intervals of no less than 15 minutes during each AN test run.

(ii) Determine and record the average water flow rate for each test run. Your operating limit is the lowest average flow rate during any test run that complies with the applicable emissions limit.

(l) You must treat process and maintenance wastewater containing AN in a wastewater treatment system. You must keep records that list each process and maintenance wastewater stream that contains AN and a process flow diagram of the wastewater treatment system that identifies each wastewater stream.
