
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources: Chromium Compounds
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11410 What are the compliance requirements?
######## Recordkeeping requirements.

(d)You must record the results of each inspection and maintenance action in a logbook (written or electronic format). You must keep the logbook onsite and make the logbook available to the permitting authority upon request. You must keep records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.

(1) The date and time of each recorded action for a fabric filter, the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the bag filters.

(2) The date and time of each recorded action for a wet or dry electrostatic precipitator (including ductwork), the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the electrostatic precipitator.

(3) The date and time of each recorded action for a wet scrubber (including ductwork), the results of each inspection, and the results of any maintenance performed on the wet scrubber.

(4) Records of all required monitoring data and supporting information including all calibration and maintenance records, original strip-chart recordings for continuous monitoring information, and copies of all reports required by this subpart. You must maintain records of required monitoring data in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review. All records must be kept onsite and made available to EPA or the delegated authority for inspection upon request. You must maintain records of all required monitoring data and supporting information for at least 5 years from the date of the monitoring sample, measurement, report, or application.
