
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources: Chromium Compounds
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11410 What are the compliance requirements?
######## Periodic inspections/maintenance.

(c)Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) You must inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.

(ii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter every 12 months. If an initial inspection is not required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the first inspection must not be more than 12 months from the last inspection.

(2) You must inspect and maintain each dry electrostatic precipitator according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold.

(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork, housing unit, and hopper for leaks.

(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate rappers, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months.

(3) You must inspect and maintain each wet electrostatic precipitator according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power, that the corona wires are energized, and that water flow is present.

(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork, electrostatic precipitator housing unit, and hopper for leaks.

(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate wash spray heads, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months. If an initial inspection is not required by paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the first inspection must not be more than 24 months from the last inspection.

(4) You must inspect and maintain each wet scrubber according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the scrubber.

(ii) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the system ductwork and scrubber unit for leaks.

(iii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the scrubber to determine the structural integrity and condition of the demister and spray nozzle every 12 months. Internal inspections of cyclonic scrubbers installed upstream of wet or dry electrostatic precipitators are not required.
