
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources: Chromium Compounds
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11410 What are the compliance requirements?
######## Initial control device inspection.

(b)You must conduct an initial inspection of each PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. You must conduct each inspection no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date for each installed control device which has been operated within 60 days of the compliance date. For an installed control device which has not been operated within 60 days of the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.

(1) For each baghouse, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action in the logbook required in paragraph (d) of this section. An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.

(2) For each dry electrostatic precipitator, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power and rapper operation, that the corona wires are energized, and that adequate air pressure is present on the rapper manifold. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and electrostatic precipitator housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, hopper, and air diffuser plates. An initial inspection of the internal components of a dry electrostatic precipitator is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 24 months.

(3) For each wet electrostatic precipitator, you must verify the proper functioning of the electronic controls for corona power, that the corona wires are energized, and that water flow is present. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and electrostatic precipitator housing unit and hopper for leaks and inspect the interior of the electrostatic precipitator to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate wash spray heads, hopper, and air diffuser plates. An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet electrostatic precipitator is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 24 months.

(4) For each wet scrubber, you must verify the presence of water flow to the scrubber. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and scrubber unit for leaks and inspect the interior of the scrubber for structural integrity and the condition of the demister and spray nozzle.

(i) An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet scrubber is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.

(ii) The requirement in paragraph (b)(4) of this section for initial inspection of the internal components of a wet scrubber does not apply to a cyclonic scrubber installed upstream of a wet or dry electrostatic precipitator.
