
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart NNNNNN - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources: Chromium Compounds
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11410 What are the compliance requirements?
######## Test methods.

(j)You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in ยง 63.7 and paragraphs (j)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of PM according to the following test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A:

(i) Method 1 or 1A to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F, or 2G to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) Method 4 to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 5 or 5D to determine the concentration of particulate matter (front half filterable catch only). Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test.

(2) During the test, you must operate each emissions source within +/-10 percent of the normal process rate specified in your notification of compliance status. You must monitor and record the process rate during the test.

(3) Compute the mass emissions (E) in pounds per hour (lb/hr) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section and the process rate measured during the test. The PM emissions in lb/hr must be less than the allowable PM emissions rate for the emissions source.
