
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production and Fabrication Area Sources
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11414 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions that meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) You own or operate a plant that produces flexible polyurethane foam or rebond foam as defined in ยง 63.1292 of subpart III.

(2) You own or operate a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facility, as defined in ยง 63.11419.

(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each new and existing affected source that meets the criteria listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) A slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce slabstock flexible polyurethane foam.

(2) A molded flexible polyurethane foam production affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce molded foam.

(3) A rebond foam production affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce rebond foam.

(4) A flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facility where adhesives are used to bond foam to foam or other substrates. Equipment and activities at flexible polyurethane foam fabrication facilities which do not use adhesives to bond foam to foam or other substrates are not flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected sources.

(c) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.

(d) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.

(e) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(f) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
