
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11422 What are my compliance dates?

(a) If you own or operate a lead acid battery manufacturing plant existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by no later than July 16, 2008, except as specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section.

(b) If you start up a new lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source on or before July 16, 2007, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than July 16, 2007, except as specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) of this section.

(c) If you start up a new lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source after July 16, 2007, but on or before February 23, 2022, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart upon startup of your affected source, except as specified in paragraphs (e) through (h) this section.

(d) If you start up a new lead acid battery manufacturing plant or lead acid battery component manufacturing plant affected source after February 23, 2022, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart not later than February 23, 2023, or upon initial startup of your affected source, whichever is later.

(e) Until February 23, 2026, lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before February 23, 2023, must meet all the standards for lead and opacity in 40 CFR 60.372 and the requirements of § 63.11423(a)(1).

(f) Lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements in § 63.11423(a)(2) by February 23, 2026. All affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements in § 63.11423(a)(2) by initial startup or February 23, 2023, whichever is later.

(g) Lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources that commenced construction or reconstruction on or before February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements of § 63.11423(a)(3) by August 22, 2023. All affected sources that commence construction or reconstruction after February 23, 2023, must comply with the requirements of § 63.11423(a)(3) by initial startup or February 23, 2023, whichever is later.

(h) After February 23, 2023, lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources must comply with the startup, shutdown, and malfunction requirements specified in table 3 to this subpart except that you must comply with the recordkeeping requirements that table 3 refers to in § 63.11424(a)(5) by May 24, 2023.

(i) If you own or operate a lead acid battery component manufacturing plant existing affected source, you must achieve compliance with the applicable provisions in this subpart by no later than February 23, 2026.
