
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart OOOOOO - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Flexible Polyurethane Foam Production and Fabrication Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11417 What are the compliance requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) If you own or operate a slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. If you own or operate a molded foam affected source, rebond foam affected source, or a loop slitter at a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(b) Each owner or operator of a new or existing slabstock flexible polyurethane foam production affected source must comply with paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section.

(1) [Reserved]

(2) You must submit a notification of compliance status report no later than 180 days after your compliance date. The report must contain this certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, for the standards in § 63.11416(b): "This facility uses no material containing methylene chloride for any purpose on any slabstock flexible foam process."

(3) You must maintain records of the information used to demonstrate compliance, as required in § 63.11416(f). You must maintain the records for 5 years, with the last 2 years of data retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be maintained off site.

(c) You must have a compliance certification on file by the compliance date. This certification must contain the statements in paragraph (c)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, as applicable, and must be signed by a responsible official.

(1) For a molded foam affected source:

(i) "This facility does not use any equipment cleaner to flush the mixhead which contains methylene chloride, or any other equipment cleaner containing methylene chloride in a molded flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(c)(1)."

(ii) "This facility does not use any mold release agent containing methylene chloride in a molded flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(c)(2)."

(2) For a rebond foam affected source:

(i) "This facility does not use any equipment cleaner which contains methylene chloride in a rebond flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(d)(1)."

(ii) "This facility does not use any mold release agent containing methylene chloride in a rebond flexible polyurethane foam process in accordance with § 63.11416(d)(2)."

(3) For a flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected source containing a loop slitter: "This facility does not use any adhesive containing methylene chloride on a loop slitter process in accordance with § 63.11416(e)."

(d) For molded foam affected sources, rebond foam affected sources, and flexible polyurethane foam fabrication affected sources containing a loop slitter, you must maintain records of the information used to demonstrate compliance, as required in § 63.11416(f). You must maintain the records for 5 years, with the last 2 years of data retained on site. The remaining 3 years of data may be maintained off site.
