
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11421 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a lead acid battery manufacturing plant or a lead acid battery component manufacturing plant that is an area source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) emissions.

(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected source is each plant that is either a lead acid battery manufacturing plant or a lead acid battery component manufacturing plant. For each lead acid battery manufacturing plant, the affected source includes all grid casting facilities, paste mixing facilities, three-process operation facilities, lead oxide manufacturing facilities, lead reclamation facilities, and any other lead-emitting operation that is associated with the lead acid battery manufacturing plant. For each lead acid battery component manufacturing plant, the affected source includes all grid casting facilities, paste mixing facilities, three-process operation facilities, and lead oxide manufacturing facilities.

(1) A lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 4, 2007.

(2) A lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 4, 2007.

(3) A lead acid battery component manufacturing plant affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before February 23, 2022.

(4) A lead acid battery component manufacturing plant affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after February 23, 2022.

(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(d) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.

(e) For lead acid battery component manufacturing plants, you are exempt from the requirements of §§ 63.11422 through 63.11427 if the conditions of paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section are met.

(1) The grid casting facility, paste mixing facility, three-process operation facility, or lead oxide manufacturing facility is subject to another subpart under this part.

(2) You control lead emissions from the grid casting facility, paste mixing facility, three-process operation facility, or lead oxide manufacturing facility in compliance with the standards specified in the applicable subpart.

(3) The other applicable subpart under this part does not exempt the grid casting facility, paste mixing facility, three-process operation facility, or lead oxide manufacturing facility from the emission limitations or work practice requirements of that subpart. This means you comply with all applicable emissions limitations and work practice standards under the other subpart (e.g., you install and operate the required air pollution controls or have implemented the required work practice to reduce lead emissions to levels specified by the applicable subpart).
