
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11423 What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) You must meet all the standards for lead and opacity as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Until the compliance date specified in § 63.11422(e), lead acid battery manufacturing plant affected sources must comply with paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) You meet all the standards for lead and opacity in 40 CFR 60.372 and the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4) and (5), (b), and (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(ii) You comply with paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(f) or (i), you must meet each emission limit in table 1 to this subpart and each opacity standard in table 2 to this subpart that applies to you; you must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(4) and (5), (c), and (d) of this section; and you must also comply with the recordkeeping and electronic reporting requirements in § 63.11424(a)(6) and (7) and (b).

(3) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(g) or (i), you must comply with the monitoring requirements in paragraph (e) of this section, the recordkeeping and electronic reporting requirements in § 63.11424(a)(1) through (5) and (c) through (f), and the definition of lead reclamation in § 63.11426.

(4) At all times, you must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require you to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by the applicable standard in this part have been achieved. Determination of whether a source is operating in compliance with operation and maintenance requirements will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(5) When two or more facilities at the same plant (except the lead oxide manufacturing facility) are ducted to a common control device, an equivalent standard for the total exhaust from the commonly controlled facilities must be determined using equation 1 to this paragraph (a)(5) as follows:

(b) As specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For any emissions point controlled by a scrubbing system, you must meet the requirements in 40 CFR 60.373.

(2) For any emissions point controlled by a fabric filter, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and either paragraph (b)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section. Fabric filters equipped with a high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter or other secondary filter are allowed to monitor less frequently, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) You must perform semiannual inspections and maintenance to ensure proper performance of each fabric filter. This includes inspection of structural and filter integrity. You must record the results of these inspections.

(ii) You must install, maintain, and operate a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter during all times when the process is operating. The pressure drop must be recorded at least once per day. If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as specified by the manufacturer, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit a monitoring system performance report in accordance with § 63.10(e)(3).

(iii) You must conduct a visible emissions observation at least once per day while the process is in operation to verify that no visible emissions are occurring at the discharge point to the atmosphere from any emissions source subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and conduct an opacity measurement in accordance with 40 CFR 60.374(b)(3). You must record the results of each opacity measurement. If the measurement exceeds the applicable opacity standard in 40 CFR 60.372(a)(7) or (8), you must submit this information in an excess emissions report required under § 63.10(e)(3).

(iv) Fabric filters equipped with a HEPA filter or other secondary filter are allowed to monitor less frequently, as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section.

(A) If you are using a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, you must record the pressure drop at least once per week. If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as specified by the manufacturer, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit a monitoring system performance report in accordance with § 63.10(e)(3).

(B) If you are conducting visible emissions observations in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section, you must conduct such observations at least once per week and record the results in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and conduct an opacity measurement in accordance with 40 CFR 60.374(b)(3). You must record the results of each opacity measurement. If the measurement exceeds the applicable opacity standard in 40 CFR 60.372(a)(7) or (8), you must submit this information in an excess emissions report required under § 63.10(e)(3).

(c) As specified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must meet the performance testing requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Existing sources are not required to conduct an initial performance test if a prior performance test was conducted using the same methods specified in this section and either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance with this subpart despite process changes.

(2) Sources without a prior performance test, as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, must conduct an initial performance test using the methods specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) EPA Method 12 or EPA Method 29 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 must be used to determine the lead concentration (CPb) and the volumetric flow rate (Qsda) of the effluent gas. The sampling time and the sample volume for each run must be at least 60 minutes and 0.85 dscm (30 dscf).

(ii) EPA Method 9 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 and the procedures in § 63.6(h) must be used to determine opacity. The opacity numbers must be rounded off to the nearest whole percentage. Or, as an alternative to Method 9, you may use ASTM D7520-16 (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) with the caveats in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) During the digital camera opacity technique (DCOT) certification procedure outlined in Section 9.2 of ASTM D7520-16, you or the DCOT vendor must present the plumes in front of various backgrounds of color and contrast representing conditions anticipated during field use such as blue sky, trees, and mixed backgrounds (clouds and/or a sparse tree stand).

(B) You must also have standard operating procedures in place including daily or other frequency quality checks to ensure the equipment is within manufacturing specifications as outlined in Section 8.1 of ASTM D7520-16.

(C) You must follow the recordkeeping procedures outlined in § 63.10(b)(1) for the DCOT certification, compliance report, data sheets, and all raw unaltered JPEGs used for opacity and certification determination.

(D) You or the DCOT vendor must have a minimum of four (4) independent technology users apply the software to determine the visible opacity of the 300 certification plumes. For each set of 25 plumes, the user may not exceed 15 percent opacity of any one reading and the average error must not exceed 7.5 percent opacity.

(E) This approval does not provide or imply a certification or validation of any vendor's hardware or software. The onus to maintain and verify the certification and/or training of the DCOT camera, software, and operator in accordance with ASTM D7520-16 and this letter is on the facility, DCOT operator, and DCOT vendor.

(iii) When different operations in a three-process operation facility are ducted to separate control devices, the lead emission concentration (C) from the facility must be determined using equation 2 to this paragraph (c)(2)(iii) as follows:

(iv) For a lead oxide manufacturing facility, the lead emission rate must be determined as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The emission rate (E) from lead oxide manufacturing facility must be computed for each run using equation 3 to this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(A) as follows:

(B) The average lead feed rate (P) must be determined for each run using equation 4 to this paragraph (c)(2)(iv)(B) as follows:

(3) In conducting the initial performance tests required in § 63.7, you must use as reference methods and procedures the test methods in appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 or other methods and procedures as specified in this section, except as provided in § 63.7(f).

(4) After the initial performance test described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, you must conduct subsequent performance tests every 5 years to demonstrate compliance with each applicable emissions limitations and opacity standards. Within three years of February 23, 2023, performance testing must be conducted for each affected source subject to an applicable emissions limitation in tables 1 and 2 to this subpart that has not had a performance test within the last 5 years, except as described in paragraph (c)(6) of this section. Thereafter, subsequent performance tests for each affected source must be completed no less frequently than every 5 years from the date the emissions source was last tested.

(5) In lieu of conducting subsequent performance tests for each affected source, you may elect to group similar affected sources together and conduct subsequent performance tests on one representative affected source within each group of similar affected sources. The determination of whether affected sources are similar must meet the criteria in paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section. If you decide to test representative affected sources, you must prepare and submit a testing plan as described in paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.

(i) If you elect to test representative affected sources, the affected sources that are grouped together must be of the same process type (e.g., grid casting, paste mixing, three-process operations) and also have the same type of air pollution control device (e.g., fabric filters). You cannot group affected sources from different process types or with different air pollution control device types together for the purposes of this section.

(ii) The results of the performance test conducted for the affected source selected as representative of a group of similar affected sources will represent the results for each affected source within the group. In the performance test report, all affected sources in the group will need to be listed.

(iii) If you plan to conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, you must submit a test plan. This test plan must be submitted to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval no later than 90 days prior to the first scheduled performance test. The test plan must contain the information specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) A list of all emission units. This list must clearly identify all emission units that have been grouped together as similar emission units. Within each group of emission units, you must identify the emission unit that will be the representative unit for that group and subject to performance testing.

(B) A list of the process type and type of air pollution control device on each emission unit.

(C) A date of last test for each emission unit and a schedule indicating when you will conduct performance tests for each emission unit within the representative groups.

(iv) If you conduct subsequent performance tests on representative emission units, the unit with the oldest test must be tested first, and each subsequent performance test must be performed for a different unit until all units in the group have been tested. The order of testing for each subsequent test must proceed such that the unit in the group with the least recent performance test is the next unit to be tested.

(6) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of malfunction. You must record the process information that is necessary to document operating conditions during the test and include in such record an explanation to support that such conditions represent normal operation. You must make available to the Administrator in the test report, records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(d) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(f) or (i), you must prepare and, at all times, operate according to a fugitive dust mitigation plan that describes in detail the measures that will be put in place and implemented to control fugitive dust emissions in the lead oxide unloading and storage areas. You must prepare a fugitive dust mitigation plan according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must submit the fugitive dust mitigation plan to the Administrator or delegated authority for review and approval when initially developed and any time changes are made.

(2) The fugitive dust mitigation plan must at a minimum include the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.
