
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11423 What are the standards and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?
######## Records.

(iv)The fugitive dust mitigation plan must specify that records be maintained of all cleaning performed under paragraph (d)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(e) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(g) or (i), you must meet the monitoring requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) For any emissions point controlled by a scrubbing system, you must install, calibrate, maintain, and operate a monitoring device(s) that measures and records the liquid flow rate and pressure drop across the scrubbing system(s) at least once every 15 minutes. The monitoring device must have an accuracy of +/-5 percent over its operating range. The operating liquid flow rate must be maintained within +/-10 percent of the average liquid flow rate during the most recent performance test. If a liquid flow rate or pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges as you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must also record the corrective actions taken. You must submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 63.11424(c).

(2) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter without a secondary filter must meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section and either paragraph (e)(2)(iii) or (iv) of this section.

(i) You must perform quarterly inspections and maintenance to ensure proper performance of each fabric filter. This includes inspection of structural and filter integrity.

(ii) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(C) or (D) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement fabric filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.

(iii) Install, maintain, and operate a pressure drop monitoring device to measure the differential pressure drop across the fabric filter during all times when the process is operating. The pressure drop must be recorded at least twice per day (at least 8 hours apart) if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are greater than 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1 to this subpart. The pressure drop must be recorded at least once per day if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are less than or equal to 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1. If a pressure drop is observed outside of the normal operational ranges, you must record the incident and take immediate corrective actions. You must submit an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 63.11424(c). You must also record the corrective actions taken and verify pressure drop is within normal operational range. These corrective actions may include but are not limited to those provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Inspecting the filter and filter housing for air leaks and torn or broken filters.

(B) Replacing defective filter media, or otherwise repairing the control device.

(C) Sealing off a defective control device by routing air to other control devices.

(D) Shutting down the process producing the lead emissions.

(iv) Conduct a visible emissions observation using EPA Method 9 or EPA Method 22 of appendix A to 40 CFR part 60 while the process is in operation to verify that no visible emissions are occurring at the discharge point to the atmosphere from any emissions source subject to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. The visible emissions observation must be conducted at least twice daily (at least 6 hours apart) if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are greater than 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1 to this subpart. The visible emissions observation must be conducted at least once per day if the results of the most recent performance test indicate that emissions are less than or equal to 50 percent of the lead emissions limit in table 1. If visible emissions are detected, you must record the incident and submit this information in an excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required under § 63.11424(c) and take immediate corrective action. You must also record the corrective actions taken. These corrective actions may include but are not limited to those provided in paragraphs (e)(2)(iii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(3) Emissions points controlled by a fabric filter equipped with a secondary filter, such as a HEPA filter, must meet the requirements of paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section and either paragraph (e)(3)(iii) or (iv) of this section.

(i) You must perform the inspections required in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section quarterly.

(ii) If it is not possible for you to take the corrective actions specified in paragraph (e)(2)(iii)(C) or (D) of this section for a process or fabric filter control device, you must keep at least one replacement primary fabric filter and one replacement secondary filter onsite at all times for that process or fabric filter control device. The characteristics of the replacement filters must be the same as the current fabric filters in use or have characteristics that would achieve equal or greater emission reductions.

(iii) You must perform the pressure drop monitoring requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(iii) of this section. You may perform these requirements once weekly rather than once or twice daily.

(iv) You must perform the visible emissions observation requirements in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section. You may perform these requirements weekly rather than once or twice daily.

(4) Beginning no later than the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11422(g) or (i), if you operate a bag leak detection system, that system must meet the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section. Emission points controlled by a fabric filter equipped that are monitored with a bag leak detection system meeting the specifications and requirements in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (ix) of this section may have the inspections required in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section performed semiannually.

(i) The bag leak detection system must be certified by the manufacturer to be capable of detecting particulate matter as lead emissions at concentrations at or below the values in table 1 to this subpart, as applicable to the process for which the fabric filter is used to control emissions. Where the fabric filter is used as a control device for more than one process, the lowest applicable value in table 1 must be used.

(ii) The bag leak detection system sensor must provide output of relative particulate matter loadings.

(iii) The bag leak detection system must be equipped with an alarm system that will alarm when an increase in relative particulate loadings is detected over a preset level.

(iv) You must install and operate the bag leak detection system in a manner consistent with the guidance provided in "Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards (OAQPS) Fabric Filter Bag Leak Detection Guidance" (EPA-454/R-98-015) (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) and the manufacturer's written specifications and recommendations for installation, operation, and adjustment of the system.

(v) The initial adjustment of the system must, at a minimum, consist of establishing the baseline output by adjusting the sensitivity (range) and the averaging period of the device and establishing the alarm set points and the alarm delay time.

(vi) Following initial adjustment, you must not adjust the sensitivity or range, averaging period, alarm set points, or alarm delay time, except as detailed in the approved standard operating procedures manual required under paragraph (e)(4)(ix) of this section. You cannot increase the sensitivity by more than 100 percent or decrease the sensitivity by more than 50 percent over a 365-day period unless such adjustment follows a complete fabric filter inspection that demonstrates that the fabric filter is in good operating condition.

(vii) For negative pressure, induced air baghouses, and positive pressure baghouses that are discharged to the atmosphere through a stack, you must install the bag leak detector downstream of the fabric filter.

(viii) Where multiple detectors are required, the system's instrumentation and alarm may be shared among detectors.

(ix) You must develop a standard operating procedures manual for the bag leak detection system that includes procedures for making system adjustments and a corrective action plan, which specifies the procedures to be followed in the case of a bag leak detection system alarm. The corrective action plan must include, at a minimum, the procedures that you will use to determine and record the time and cause of the alarm as well as the corrective actions taken to minimize emissions as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(ix)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The procedures used to determine the cause of the alarm must be initiated within 30 minutes of the alarm.
