
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11424 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for this subpart?
######## https://www.epa.gov/electronic-reporting-air-emissions/cedri,https://cdx.epa.gov/

(c) Beginning on February 23, 2024, or once the report template for this subpart has been available on the CEDRI website for one year, whichever date is later, you must submit a report of excess emissions and monitoring systems performance report and summary report according to §§ 63.9(k) and 63.10(e)(3) to the Administrator semiannually. Report the number of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part. For each instance, report the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure. For each failure, the report must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions. You must use the appropriate electronic report template on the CEDRI website () or an alternate electronic file consistent with the XML schema listed on the CEDRI website for this subpart. The date report templates become available will be listed on the CEDRI website. Unless the Administrator or delegated state agency or other authority has approved a different schedule for submission of reports, the report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Submit all reports to the EPA via CEDRI, which can be accessed through the EPA's CDX (). The EPA will make all the information submitted through CEDRI available to the public without further notice to you. Do not use CEDRI to submit information you claim as CBI. Anything submitted using CEDRI cannot later be claimed CBI. The report must be submitted by the deadline specified in this subpart, regardless of the method in which the report is submitted. Although we do not expect persons to assert a claim of CBI, if you wish to assert a CBI claim, follow the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. The same file with the CBI omitted must be submitted to the EPA via the EPA's CDX as described earlier in this paragraph (c).

(d) Any records required to be maintained by this subpart that are submitted electronically via the EPA's CEDRI may be maintained in electronic format. This ability to maintain electronic copies does not affect the requirement for facilities to make records, data, and reports available upon request to a delegated air agency or the EPA as part of an on-site compliance evaluation.
