
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11424 What are the recordkeeping and reporting requirements for this subpart?

(a) You must keep the records specified in this section according to the applicable compliance date in § 63.11422(f) and (g) or (i) and maintain them in a format readily available for review onsite for a period of 5 years.

(1) Records of pressure drop values and the liquid flow rate from the monitoring required in § 63.11423(e)(1) for scrubbing systems.

(2) Records of fabric filter inspections and maintenance activities required in § 63.11423(e)(2)(i) or (e)(3)(i).

(3) Records required under § 63.11423(e)(2)(iii) or (e)(3)(iii) of fabric filter pressure drop, pressure drop observed outside of normal operating ranges as specified by the manufacturer, and corrective actions taken.

(4) Records of the required visible emissions observations in § 63.11423(e)(2)(iv) or (e)(3)(iv).

(5) You must keep the records of failures to meet an applicable standard in this part as specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) In the event that an affected unit fails to meet an applicable standard in this part, record the number of failures. For each failure record the date, time, cause, and duration of each failure.

(ii) For each failure to meet an applicable standard in this part, record and retain a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the quantity of each regulated pollutant emitted over any emission limit and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(iii) Record actions taken to minimize emissions and any corrective actions taken to return the affected unit to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(6) If a bag leak detection system is used under § 63.11423(e)(4), for a period of 5 years keep the records, specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Electronic records of the bag leak detection system output.

(ii) An identification of the date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the corrective actions taken, and the date and time the cause of the alarm was corrected.

(iii) All records of inspections and maintenance activities required under § 63.11423(e)(4).

(7) Records of all cleaning required as part of the practices described in the fugitive dust mitigation plan required under § 63.11423(d)(2)(iii) for the control of fugitive dust emissions.

(b) Beginning on April 24, 2023, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance test or demonstration of compliance required by this subpart, you must submit the results of the performance test following the procedures specified in § 63.9(k) and paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.
