
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart PPPPPP - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Lead Acid Battery Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Other Requirements and Information
####### § 63.11427 Who implements and enforces this subpart?

(a) This subpart can be implemented and enforced by the U.S. EPA or a delegated authority such as a State, local, or tribal agency. If the U.S. EPA Administrator has delegated authority to a State, local, or tribal agency pursuant to 40 CFR part 63, subpart E, then that Agency has the authority to implement and enforce this subpart. You should contact your U.S. EPA Regional Office to find out if this subpart is delegated to a State, local, or tribal agency within your State.

(b) In delegating implementation and enforcement authority of this subpart to a State, local, or tribal agency under subpart E of this part, the approval authorities contained in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section are retained by the Administrator of the U.S. EPA and are not transferred to the State, local, or tribal agency.

(1) Approval of an alternative non-opacity emissions standard under § 63.6(g).

(2) Approval of a major change to test methods under § 63.7(e)(2)(ii) and (f). A "major change to test method" is defined in § 63.90.

(3) Approval of a major change to monitoring under § 63.8(f). A "major change to monitoring" is defined in § 63.90.

(4) Approval of a major change to recordkeeping/reporting under § 63.10(f). A "major change to recordkeeping/reporting" is defined in § 63.90.

(5) Approval of an alternative to any electronic reporting to the EPA required by this subpart.
