
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11442 What are the recordkeeping requirements?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Records of all required measurements needed to document compliance with management practices as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(vii), including records of monitoring and inspection data required by § 63.11440.

(b) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).

(c) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.

(d) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining three years.
