
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11441 What are the notification requirements?

(a) You must submit an Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11437, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iv) and may be combined with the Notification of Compliance Status required in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11437. In addition to the information required in § 63.9(h)(2), your notification(s) must include each compliance certification in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section that applies to you and may be combined with the Initial Notification required in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) For each kiln firing glazed ceramic ware, you must certify that you are maintaining the peak temperature below 1540 &#xB0;C (2800 &#xB0;F) according to § 63.11438(a) and complying with one of the management practices in § 63.11438(a)(1) or (2).

(2) For atomized glaze spray booths, you must certify that your facility's annual wet glaze usage is above or below 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy).

(3) For atomized glaze spray booths located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses more than 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) of wet glaze(s), you must certify that:

(i) You are operating and maintaining an APCD in accordance with § 63.11438(c)(1), and you have conducted an initial control device inspection for each wet control system and baghouse associated with an atomized glaze spray booth; or

(ii) Alternatively, you are using wet glazes containing less than 0.1 (weight) percent clay ceramics metal HAP according to § 63.11438(c)(2).

(4) For atomized glaze spray booths located at a clay ceramics manufacturing facility that uses 227 Mg/yr (250 tpy) or less of wet glaze(s), you must certify that:

(i) You are employing waste minimization practices according to § 63.11438(d)(1); or

(ii) You are complying with the requirements in § 63.11438(c)(1) or (2).
