
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### ยง 63.11440 What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
######## Initial control device inspection.

(1)You must conduct an initial inspection of each particulate matter (PM) control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must conduct each inspection no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date for each installed control device which has been operated within 60 days of the compliance date. For an installed control device which has not been operated within 60 days of the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.

(i) For each wet control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system. An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet control system is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.

(ii) For each baghouse, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in paragraph (d) of this section. An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.
