
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart RRRRRR - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Clay Ceramics Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### ยง 63.11440 What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
######## Periodic inspections/maintenance.

(2)Except as provided in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each PM control device following the initial inspection according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet control system according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet control system.

(B) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks.

(C) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.

(ii) You must inspect and maintain each baghouse according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of the system ductwork for leaks.

(B) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the baghouse for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter every 12 months.

(3) As an alternative to the monitoring activities in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, you may demonstrate compliance by:

(i) Conducting a daily 30-minute visible emissions (VE) test (i.e., no visible emissions) using EPA Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7); or

(ii) Using an approved alternative monitoring technique under ยง 63.8(f).

(c) If the results of the visual inspection, VE test, or alternative monitoring technique conducted under paragraph (b) of this section indicate an exceedance, you must take corrective action according to the equipment manufacturer's specifications or instructions.

(d) You must maintain records of your monitoring activities described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. You may use your existing operating permit documentation to meet the monitoring requirements if it includes, but is not limited to, the monitoring records listed in paragraphs (d)(1) through (5) of this section related to any kiln peak temperature checks, visual inspections, VE tests, or alternative monitoring:

(1) The date, place, and time;

(2) Person conducting the activity;

(3) Technique or method used;

(4) Operating conditions during the activity; and

(5) Results.
