
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Glass Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11452 What are the performance test requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) If you own or operate an affected furnace that is subject to an emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct a performance test according to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) and paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) For each affected furnace, you must conduct a performance test within 180 days after your compliance date and report the results in your Notification of Compliance Status, except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) You are not required to conduct a performance test on the affected furnace if you satisfy the conditions described in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You conducted a performance test on the affected furnace within the past 5 years of the compliance date using the same test methods and procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) The performance test demonstrated that the affected furnace met the applicable emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart.

(iii) Either no process changes have been made since the test, or you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance with the applicable emission limit.

(3) If you operate multiple identical furnaces, as defined in § 63.11459, that are affected furnaces, you are required to test only one of the identical furnaces if you meet the conditions specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct the performance test while the furnace is producing glass that has the greatest potential to emit the glass manufacturing metal HAP from among the glass formulations that are used in any of the identical furnaces.

(ii) You certify in your Notification of Compliance Status that the identical furnaces meet the definition of identical furnaces specified in § 63.11459.

(iii) You provide in your Notification of Compliance Status documentation that demonstrates why the tested glass formulation has the greatest potential to emit the glass manufacturing metal HAP.

(b) You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7 and paragraphs (b)(1) through (12) and either paragraph (b)(13) or (b)(14) of this section.

(1) Install and validate all monitoring equipment required by this subpart before conducting the performance test.

(2) You may not conduct performance tests during periods of startup, shutdown, or malfunction, as specified in § 63.7(e)(1).

(3) Conduct the test while the source is operating at the maximum production rate.

(4) Conduct at least three separate test runs with a minimum duration of 1 hour for each test run, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3).

(5) Record the test date.

(6) Identify the emission source tested.

(7) Collect and record the emission test data listed in this section for each run of the performance test.

(8) Locate all sampling sites at the outlet of the furnace control device or at the furnace stack prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(9) Select the locations of sampling ports and the number of traverse points using Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1.

(10) Measure the gas velocity and volumetric flow rate using Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2F, or 2G of 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1 and A-2, during each test run.

(11) Conduct gas molecular weight analysis using Methods 3, 3A, or 3B of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, during each test run. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(12) Measure gas moisture content using Method 4 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, during each test run.

(13) To meet the particulate matter (PM) emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(13)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Measure the PM mass emission rate at the outlet of the control device or at the stack using Method 5 or 17 of 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-3 or A-6, for each test run.

(ii) Calculate the PM mass emission rate in the exhaust stream for each test run.

(iii) Measure and record the glass production rate (kilograms (tons) per hour of product) for each test run.

(iv) Calculate the production-based PM mass emission rate (g/kg (lb/ton)) for each test run using Equation 1 of this section.

(v) Calculate the 3-hour block average production-based PM mass emission rate as the average of the production-based PM mass emission rates for each test run.

(14) To meet the metal HAP emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must conduct the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(14)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Measure the metal HAP mass emission rate at the outlet of the control device or at the stack using Method 29 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8, for each test run.

(ii) Calculate the metal HAP mass emission rate in the exhaust stream for the glass manufacturing metal HAP that are added as raw materials to the glass manufacturing formulation for each test run.

(iii) Measure and record the glass production rate (kilograms (tons) per hour of product) for each test run.

(iv) Calculate the production-based metal HAP mass emission rate (g/kg (lb/ton)) for each test run using Equation 2 of this section.

(v) Calculate the 3-hour block average production-based metal HAP mass emission rate as the average of the production-based metal HAP mass emission rates for each test run.
