
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Glass Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11450 What are my compliance dates?

(a) If you have an existing affected source, you must comply with the applicable emission limits specified in § 63.11451 of this subpart no later than December 28, 2009. As specified in section 112(i)(3)(B) of the Clean Air Act and in § 63.6(i)(4)(A), you may request that the Administrator or delegated authority grant an extension allowing up to 1 additional year to comply with the applicable emission limits if such additional period is necessary for the installation of emission controls.

(b) If you have a new affected source, you must comply with this subpart according to paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) If you start up your affected source on or before December 26, 2007, you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 no later than December 26, 2007.

(2) If you start up your affected source after December 26, 2007, you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 upon initial startup of your affected source.

(c) If you own or operate a furnace that produces glass containing one or more glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials at an annual rate of less than 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy), and you increase glass production for that furnace to an annual rate of at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy), you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 within 2 years of the date on which you increased the glass production rate for the furnace to at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy).

(d) If you own or operate a furnace that produces glass at an annual rate of at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy) and is not charged with glass manufacturing metal HAP, and you begin production of a glass product that includes one or more glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials, and you produce at least 45 Mg/yr (50 tpy) of this glass product, you must comply with the applicable emission limit specified in § 63.11451 within 2 years of the date on which you introduced production of the glass product that contains glass manufacturing metal HAP.

(e) You must meet the notification requirements in § 63.11456 according to the schedule in § 63.11456 and in 40 CFR part 63, subpart A. Some of the notifications must be submitted before you are required to comply with emission limits specified in this subpart.
