
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Glass Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11454 What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) For each monitoring system required by this subpart, you must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain the monitoring system according to the manufacturer's specifications and the requirements specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) You must install each sensor of your monitoring system in a location that provides representative measurement of the appropriate parameter over all operating conditions, taking into account the manufacturer's guidelines.

(2) You must perform an initial calibration of your monitoring system based on the manufacturer's recommendations.

(3) You must use a monitoring system that is designed to complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.

(4) For each existing affected furnace, you must record the value of the monitored parameter at least every 8 hours. The value can be recorded electronically or manually.

(5) You must record the results of each inspection, calibration, monitoring system maintenance, and corrective action taken to return the monitoring system to normal operation.

(6) At all times, you must maintain your monitoring system including, but not limited to, maintaining necessary parts for routine repairs of the system.

(7) You must perform the required monitoring whenever the affected furnace meets the conditions specified in paragraph (a)(7)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) The furnace is being charged with one or more of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials.

(ii) The furnace is in transition between producing glass that contains one or more of the glass metal HAP as raw materials and glass that does not contain any of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials. The transition period begins when the furnace is charged with raw materials that do not contain any of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials and ends when the furnace begins producing a saleable glass product that does not contain any of the glass manufacturing metal HAP as raw materials.

(b) For each existing furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with an ESP, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) You must monitor the secondary voltage and secondary electrical current to each field of the ESP according to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, or

(2) You must submit a request for alternative monitoring, as described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(c) For each existing furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a fabric filter, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) You must monitor the inlet temperature to the fabric filter according to the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, or

(2) You must submit a request for alternative monitoring, as described in paragraph (g) of this section.

(d) For each new furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with an ESP, you must monitor the voltage and electrical current to each field of the ESP on a continuous basis using one or more CPMS according to the requirements for CPMS specified in § 63.11453(d).

(e) For each new furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is controlled with a fabric filter, you must install and operate a bag leak detection system according to the requirements specified in § 63.11453(c).

(f) For each new or existing furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and is equipped with a control device other than an ESP or fabric filter, you must meet the requirements in § 63.8(f) and submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring methods to the Administrator no later than the submittal date for the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.11456(b). The request must contain the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Description of the alternative add-on air pollution control device (APCD).

(2) Type of monitoring device or method that will be used, including the sensor type, location, inspection procedures, quality assurance and quality control (QA/QC) measures, and data recording device.

(3) Operating parameters that will be monitored.

(4) Frequency that the operating parameter values will be measured and recorded.

(5) Procedures for inspecting the condition and operation of the control device and monitoring system.

(g) If you wish to use a monitoring method other than those specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (c)(1) of this section, you must meet the requirements in § 63.8(f) and submit a request for approval of alternative monitoring methods to the Administrator no later than the submittal date for the Notification of Compliance Status, as specified in § 63.11456(b). The request must contain the information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Type of monitoring device or method that will be used, including the sensor type, location, inspection procedures, QA/QC measures, and data recording device.

(2) Operating parameters that will be monitored.

(3) Frequency that the operating parameter values will be measured and recorded.

(4) Procedures for inspecting the condition and operation of the monitoring system.

(5) Explanation for how the alternative monitoring method will provide assurance that the emission control device is operating properly.
