
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Glass Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11455 What are the continuous compliance requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) You must be in compliance with the applicable emission limits in this subpart at all times, except during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction.

(b) You must always operate and maintain your affected source, including air pollution control and monitoring equipment, according to the provisions in § 63.6(e)(1)(i).

(c) For each affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart, you must monitor the performance of the furnace emission control device under the conditions specified in § 63.11454(a)(7) and according to the requirements in §§ 63.6(e)(1) and 63.8(c) and paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) For each existing affected furnace that is controlled with an ESP, you must monitor the parameters specified in § 63.11454(b) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.

(2) For each new affected furnace that is controlled with an ESP, you must comply with the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11454(d) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.

(3) For each existing affected furnace that is controlled with a fabric filter, you must monitor the parameter specified in § 63.11454(c) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.

(4) For each new affected furnace that is controlled with a fabric filter, you must comply with the monitoring requirements specified in § 63.11454(e) in accordance with the requirements of § 63.11454(a) or as specified in your approved alternative monitoring plan.

(5) For each affected furnace that is controlled with a device other than a fabric filter or ESP, you must comply with the requirements of your approved alternative monitoring plan, as required in § 63.11454(g).

(6) For each monitoring system that is required under this subpart, you must keep the records specified in § 63.11457.

(d) Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections and maintenance of each affected furnace control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) For each fabric filter, you must conduct inspections at least every 12 months according to paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must inspect the ductwork and fabric filter unit for leakage.

(ii) You must inspect the interior of the fabric filter for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter.

(iii) If an initial inspection is not required, as specified in § 63.11453(b)(3)(i), the first inspection must not be more than 12 months from the last inspection.

(2) For each ESP, you must conduct inspections according to the requirements in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must conduct visual inspections of the system ductwork, housing unit, and hopper for leaks at least every 12 months.

(ii) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the ESP to determine the condition and integrity of corona wires, collection plates, plate rappers, hopper, and air diffuser plates every 24 months.

(iii) If an initial inspection is not required, as specified in § 63.11453(b)(3)(ii), the first inspection must not be more than 24 months from the last inspection.

(3) You must record the results of each periodic inspection specified in this section in a logbook (written or electronic format), as specified in § 63.11457(c).

(4) If the results of a required inspection indicate a problem with the operation of the emission control system, you must take immediate corrective action to return the control device to normal operation according to the equipment manufacturer's specifications or instructions.

(e) For each affected furnace that is subject to the emission limit specified in Table 1 to this subpart and can meet the applicable emission limit without the use of a control device, you must demonstrate continuous compliance by satisfying the applicable recordkeeping requirements specified in § 63.11457.
