
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart SSSSSS - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Glass Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Notifications and Records
####### § 63.11457 What are the recordkeeping requirements?

(a) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) A copy of any Initial Notification and Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted and all documentation supporting those notifications, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) The records specified in § 63.10(b)(2) and (c)(1) through (13).

(3) The records required to show continuous compliance with each emission limit that applies to you, as specified in § 63.11455.

(4) For each affected source, records of production rate on a process throughput basis (either feed rate to the process unit or discharge rate from the process unit). The production data must include the amount (weight or weight percent) of each ingredient in the batch formulation, including all glass manufacturing metal HAP compounds.

(5) Records of maintenance activities and inspections performed on control devices as specified in §§ 63.11453(b) and 63.11455(d), according to paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The date, place, and time of inspections of control device ductwork, interior, and operation.

(ii) Person conducting the inspection.

(iii) Technique or method used to conduct the inspection.

(iv) Control device operating conditions during the time of the inspection.

(v) Results of the inspection and description of any corrective action taken.

(6) Records of all required monitoring data and supporting information including all calibration and maintenance records.

(7) For each bag leak detection system, the records specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output;

(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings; and

(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, the time that procedures to determine the cause of the alarm were initiated, the cause of the alarm, an explanation of the actions taken, the date and time the cause of the alarm was alleviated, and whether the alarm was alleviated within 3 hours of the alarm.

(8) Records of any approved alternative monitoring method(s) or test procedure(s).

(b) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).

(c) You must record the results of each inspection and maintenance action in a logbook (written or electronic format). You must keep the logbook onsite and make the logbook available to the permitting authority upon request.

(d) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for a minimum of 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record.

You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, maintenance, corrective action, report, or record, according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining three years.
