
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Nonferrous Metals Processing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### § 63.11467 What are the initial compliance demonstration requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the applicable standards in § 63.11465 by submitting a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.11469(b).

(b) You must conduct the inspection specified in paragraph (c) of this section and include the results of the inspection in the Notification of Compliance Status.

(c) For each existing and new affected source, you must conduct an initial inspection of each baghouse. You must visually inspect the system ductwork and baghouse unit for leaks. Except as specified in paragraph (e) of this section, you must also inspect the inside of each baghouse for structural integrity and fabric filter condition. You must record the results of the inspection and any maintenance action as required in § 63.11470.

(d) For each installed baghouse that is in operation during the 60 days after the applicable compliance date, you must conduct the inspection specified in paragraph (c) of this section no later than 60 days after your applicable compliance date. For an installed baghouse that is not in operation during the 60 days after the applicable compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the baghouse.

(e) An initial inspection of the internal components of a baghouse is not required if an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months.

(f) If you own or operate an existing affected source and are not required to conduct a performance test under § 63.11466, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11464.

(g) If you own or operate an existing affected source and are required to conduct a performance test under § 63.11466, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 60 days after completing the performance test.
