
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart TTTTTT - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Secondary Nonferrous Metals Processing Area Sources
###### Standards, Compliance, and Monitoring Requirements
####### ยง 63.11466 What are the performance test requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, if you own or operate an existing or new affected source, you must conduct a performance test for each affected source within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your notification of compliance status.

(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the past 5 years of the compliance date using the same methods specified in paragraph (c) of this section and you meet either of the following two conditions:

(1) No process changes have been made since the test; or

(2) You demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(c) You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in ยง 63.7 and paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of PM according to the following test methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices:

(i) Method 1 or 1A (Appendix A-1) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2F, or 2G (Appendices A-1 and A-2) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (Appendix A-2) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses" (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) Method 4 (Appendix A-3) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 5 or 17 (Appendix A-3) to determine the concentration of particulate matter (front half filterable catch only). Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test.

(2) During the test, you must operate each emissions source within +/-10 percent of its normal process rate. You must monitor and record the process rate during the test.
