
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11495 What are the management practices and other requirements?
######## Small heat exchange systems.

(b)For each heat exchange system subject to this subpart with a cooling water flow rate less than 8,000 gallons per minute (gal/min) and not meeting one or more of the conditions in ยง 63.104(a), you must comply with paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, or as an alternative, you may comply with any one of the requirements in Item 1.a or 1.b of Table 8 to this subpart.

(1) You must develop and operate in accordance with a heat exchange system inspection plan. The plan must describe the inspections to be performed that will provide evidence of hydrocarbons in the cooling water. Among other things, inspections may include checks for visible floating hydrocarbon on the water, hydrocarbon odor, discolored water, and/or chemical addition rates. You must conduct inspections at least once per quarter, even if the previous inspection determined that the indications of a leak did not constitute a leak as defined by ยง 63.104(b)(6).

(2) You must perform repairs to eliminate the leak and any indications of a leak or demonstrate that the HAP concentration in the cooling water does not constitute a leak, as defined by ยง 63.104(b)(6), within 45 calendar days after indications of the leak are identified, or you must document the reason for any delay of repair in your next semiannual compliance report.

(3) You must keep records of the dates and results of each inspection, documentation of any demonstrations that indications of a leak do not constitute a leak, the dates of leak repairs, and, if applicable, the reasons for any delay in repair.
