
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11495 What are the management practices and other requirements?
######## Management practices.

(a)If you have a CMPU subject to this subpart, you must comply with paragraphs (a)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Each process vessel must be equipped with a cover or lid that must be closed at all times when it is in organic HAP service or metal HAP service, except for manual operations that require access, such as material addition and removal, inspection, sampling and cleaning. This requirement does not apply to process vessels containing only metal HAP that are in a liquid solution or other form that will not result in particulate emissions of metal HAP (e.g., metal HAP that is in ingot, paste, slurry, or moist pellet form or other form).

(2) You must use any of the methods listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section to control total organic HAP emissions from transfer of liquids containing Table 1 organic HAP to tank trucks or railcars. You are not required to comply with this paragraph (a)(2) if you have notified the Administrator in your initial notification that a material is reactive or resinous, and you will not be able to comply with any of the methods in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section for the transfer of such material.

(i) Use submerged loading or bottom loading.

(ii) Route emissions to a fuel gas system or process in accordance with ยง 63.982(d) of subpart SS.

(iii) Vapor balance back to the storage tank or another storage tank connected by a common header.

(iv) Vent through a closed-vent system to a control device.

(3) You must conduct inspections of process vessels and equipment for each CMPU in organic HAP service or metal HAP service, as specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (v) of this section, to demonstrate compliance with paragraph (a)(1) of this section and to determine that the process vessels and equipment are sound and free of leaks. Alternatively, except when the subject CMPU contains metal HAP as particulate, inspections may be conducted while the subject process vessels and equipment are in VOC service, provided that leaks can be detected when in VOC service.

(i) Inspections must be conducted at least quarterly.

(ii) For these inspections, detection methods incorporating sight, sound, or smell are acceptable. Indications of a leak identified using such methods constitute a leak unless you demonstrate that the indications of a leak are due to a condition other than loss of HAP. If indications of a leak are determined not to be HAP in one quarterly monitoring period, you must still perform the inspection and demonstration in the next quarterly monitoring period.

(iii) As an alternative to conducting inspections, as specified in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, you may use Method 21 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, with a leak definition of 500 ppmv to detect leaks. You may also use Method 21 with a leak definition of 500 ppmv to determine if indications of a leak identified during an inspection conducted in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section are due to a condition other than loss of HAP. The procedures in this paragraph (a)(3)(iii) may not be used as an alternative to the inspection required by paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section for process vessels that contain metal HAP as particulate.

(iv) Inspections must be conducted while the subject CMPU is operating.

(v) No inspection is required in a calendar quarter during which the subject CMPU does not operate for the entire calendar quarter and is not in organic HAP service or metal HAP service. If the CMPU operates at all during a calendar quarter, an inspection is required.

(4) You must repair any leak within 15 calendar days after detection of the leak, or document the reason for any delay of repair. For the purposes of this paragraph (a)(4), a leak will be considered "repaired" if a condition specified in paragraph (a)(4)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section is met.

(i) The visual, audible, olfactory, or other indications of a leak to the atmosphere have been eliminated, or

(ii) No bubbles are observed at potential leak sites during a leak check using soap solution, or

(iii) The system will hold a test pressure.

(5) You must keep records of the dates and results of each inspection event, the dates of equipment repairs, and, if applicable, the reasons for any delay in repair.
