
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11496 What are the standards and compliance requirements for process vents?
######## Organic HAP emissions from batch process vents.

(a)You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section for organic HAP emissions from your batch process vents for each CMPU using Table 1 organic HAP. If uncontrolled organic HAP emissions from all batch process vents from a CMPU subject to this subpart are equal to or greater than 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), you must also comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 2 to this subpart.

(1) You must determine the sum of actual organic HAP emissions from all of your batch process vents within a CMPU subject to this subpart using process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data. Emissions for a standard batch in a process may be used to represent actual emissions from each batch in that process. You must maintain records of the calculations. Calculations of annual emissions are not required if you meet the emission standards for batch process vents in Table 2 to this subpart.

(2) As an alternative to calculating actual emissions for each affected CMPU at your facility, you may elect to estimate emissions for each CMPU based on the emissions for the worst-case CMPU. The worst-case CMPU means the CMPU at the affected source with the highest organic HAP emissions per batch. The worst-case emissions per batch are used with the number of batches run for other affected CMPU. Process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data may be used to identify the worst-case process. You must keep records of the information and procedures used to identify the worst-case process.

(3) If your current estimate is that emissions from batch process vents from a CMPU are less than 10,000 pounds per year (lb/yr), then you must keep a record of the number of batches of each process operated per month. Also, you must reevaluate your total emissions from batch process vents prior to making any process changes that affect emission calculations in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section. If projected emissions increase to 10,000 lb/yr or more, you must be in compliance options for batch process vents in Table 2 to this subpart upon initiating operation under the new operating conditions. You must maintain records documenting the results of all updated emissions calculations.

(4) As an alternative to determining the HAP emissions, you may elect to demonstrate that the amount of organic HAP used in the process is less than 10,000 lb/yr. You must keep monthly records of the organic HAP usage.
