
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11496 What are the standards and compliance requirements for process vents?
######## Organic HAP emissions from continuous process vents.

(b)You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section for organic HAP emissions from your continuous process vents for each CMPU subject to this subpart using Table 1 organic HAP. If the total resource-effectiveness (TRE) index value for a continuous process vent is less than or equal to 1.0, you must also comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 3 to this subpart.

(1) You must determine the TRE index value according to the procedures in ยง 63.115(d), except as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You are not required to calculate the TRE index value if you control emissions in accordance with Table 3 to this subpart.

(ii) Sections 63.115(d)(1)(i) and (ii) are not applicable for the purposes of this paragraph (b)(1)(ii).

(iii) You may assume the TRE for a vent stream is >1.0 if the amount of organic HAP emitted in the vent stream is less than 0.1 pound per hour.

(2) If the current TRE index value is greater than 1, you must recalculate the TRE index value before you make any process or operational change that affects parameters in the calculation. If the recalculated TRE is less than or equal to 1.0, then you must comply with one of the compliance options for continuous process vents in Table 3 to this subpart before operating under the new operating conditions. You must maintain records of all TRE calculations.

(3) If a recovery device as defined in ยง 63.11502 is used to maintain the TRE index value at a level greater than 1.0 and less than or equal to 4.0, you must comply with ยง 63.982(e) and the requirements specified therein.
