
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11496 What are the standards and compliance requirements for process vents?
######## Emissions from metal HAP process vents.

(f)You must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section for metal HAP emissions from each CMPU using Table 1 metal HAP. If the collective uncontrolled metal HAP emissions from all metal HAP process vents from a CMPU are equal to or greater than 400 lb/yr, then you must also comply with the emission limits and other requirements in Table 4 to this subpart and in paragraph (f)(3), (4), or (5) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph (f) do not apply to metal HAP process vents from CMPU containing only metal HAP that are in a liquid solution or other form that will not result in particulate emissions of metal HAP (e.g., metal HAP that is in ingot, paste, slurry, or moist pellet form or other form).

(1) You must determine the sum of metal HAP emissions from all metal HAP process vents within a CMPU subject to this subpart, except you are not required to determine the annual emissions if you control the metal HAP process vents within a CMPU in accordance with Table 4 to this subpart or if you determine your total metal HAP usage in the process unit is less than 400 lb/yr. To determine the mass emission rate you may use process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data. You must keep records of the emissions calculations.

(2) If your current estimate is that total uncontrolled metal HAP emissions from a CMPU subject to this subpart are less than 400 lb/yr, then you must keep records of either the number of batches operated per month (batch vents) or the process operating hours (continuous vents). Also, you must reevaluate your total emissions before you make any process or operational change that affects emissions of metal HAP. If projected emissions increase to 400 lb/yr or more, then you must be in compliance with one of the options for metal HAP process vents in Table 4 to this subpart upon initiating operation under the new operating conditions. You must keep records of all recalculated emissions determinations.

(3) If you have an existing source subject to the HAP metals emission limits specified in Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply with the initial compliance and monitoring requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section. You must keep records of monitoring results to demonstrate continuous compliance.

(i) You must prepare a monitoring plan containing the information in paragraphs (f)(3)(i)(A) through (E) of this section. The plan must be maintained on-site and be available on request. You must operate and maintain the control device according to a site-specific monitoring plan at all times.

(A) A description of the device;

(B) Results of a performance test or engineering assessment conducted in accordance with paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section verifying the performance of the device for reducing HAP metals or particulate matter (PM) to the levels required by this subpart;

(C) Operation and maintenance plan for the control device (including a preventative maintenance schedule consistent with the manufacturer's instructions for routine and long-term maintenance) and continuous monitoring system (CMS).

(D) A list of operating parameters that will be monitored to maintain continuous compliance with the applicable emissions limits; and

(E) Operating parameter limits based on either monitoring data collected during the performance test or established in the engineering assessment.

(ii) You must conduct a performance test or an engineering assessment for each CMPU subject to a HAP metals emissions limit in Table 4 to this subpart and report the results in your Notification of Compliance Status (NOCS). Each performance test or engineering assessment must be conducted under representative operating conditions, and sampling for each performance test must be conducted at both the inlet and outlet of the control device. Upon request, you shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. If you own or operate an existing affected source, you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the 5 years prior to the effective date using the same methods specified in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) of this section, and, either no process changes have been made since the test, or, if you can demonstrate that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(iii) If you elect to conduct a performance test, it must be conducted according to requirements in ยง 63.11410(j)(1). As an alternative to conducting a performance test using Method 5 or 5D to determine the concentration of PM, you may use Method 29 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8 to determine the concentration of HAP metals. You have demonstrated initial compliance if the overall reduction of either HAP metals or total PM is equal to or greater than 95 percent.

(4) If you have a new source using a baghouse as a control device, you must install, operate, and maintain a bag leak detection system on all baghouses used to comply with the HAP metals emissions limit in Table 4 to this subpart. You must comply with the testing, monitoring, and recordkeeping requirements in ยง 63.11410(g), (i), and (j)(1), except you are not required to submit the monitoring plan required by ยง 63.11410(g)(2) for approval.

(5) If you have a new source using a control device other than a baghouse to comply with the HAP metals emission limits in Table 4 to this subpart, you must comply with the initial compliance and monitoring requirements in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section.
