
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11498 What are the standards and compliance requirements for wastewater systems?

(a) You must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1) and (2) of this section and in Table 6, Item 1 to this subpart for all wastewater streams from a CMPU subject to this subpart. If the partially soluble HAP concentration in a wastewater stream is equal to or greater than 10,000 parts per million by weight (ppmw) and the wastewater stream contains a separate organic phase, then you must also comply with Table 6, Item 2 to this subpart for that wastewater stream. Partially soluble HAP are listed in Table 7 to this subpart.

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you must determine the total concentration of partially soluble HAP in each wastewater stream using process knowledge, engineering assessment, or test data. Also, you must reevaluate the concentration of partially soluble HAP if you make any process or operational change that affects the concentration of partially soluble HAP in a wastewater stream.

(2) You are not required to determine the partially soluble concentration in wastewater that is hard piped to a combustion unit or hazardous waste treatment unit, as specified in Table 6, Item 2.b to this subpart.

(3) Separated organic material that is recycled to a process is no longer wastewater and no longer subject to the wastewater requirements after it has been recycled.

(b) The requirements in Item 2 of Table 6 to this subpart do not apply during periods of startup or shutdown. References to SSM provisions in subparts that are referenced in paragraph (a) of this section or Table 6 to this subpart do not apply.
