
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart VVVVVV - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Chemical Manufacturing Area Sources
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11501 What are the notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements, and how may I assert an affirmative defense for violation of emission standards during malfunction?
######## Recordkeeping.

(c)You must maintain files of all information required by this subpart for at least 5 years following the date of each occurrence according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(1). If you are subject, you must comply with the recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 63.10(b)(2)(iii) and (vi) through (xiv), and the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) For each CMPU subject to this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) Records of management practice inspections, repairs, and reasons for any delay of repair, as specified in § 63.11495(a)(5).

(ii) Records of small heat exchange system inspections, demonstrations of indications of leaks that do not constitute leaks, repairs, and reasons for any delay in repair as specified in § 63.11495(b).

(iii) If batch process vent emissions are less than 10,000 lb/yr for a CMPU, records of batch process vent emission calculations, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(1), the number of batches operated each month, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(3), and any updated emissions calculations, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(3). Alternatively, keep records of the worst-case processes or organic HAP usage, as specified in § 63.11496(a)(2) and (4), respectively.

(iv) Records of all TRE calculations for continuous process vents as specified in § 63.11496(b)(2).

(v) Records of metal HAP emission calculations as specified in § 63.11496(f)(1) and (2). If total uncontrolled metal HAP process vent emissions from a CMPU subject to this subpart are estimated to be less than 400 lb/yr, also keep records of either the number of batches per month or operating hours, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(2).

(vi) Records identifying wastewater streams and the type of treatment they receive, as specified in Table 6 to this subpart.

(vii) Records of the date, time, and duration of each malfunction of operation of process equipment, control devices, recovery devices, or continuous monitoring systems used to comply with this subpart that causes a failure to meet a standard. The record must include a list of the affected sources or equipment, an estimate of the volume of each regulated pollutant emitted over the standard, and a description of the method used to estimate the emissions.

(viii) Records of actions taken during periods of malfunction to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11495(d), including corrective actions to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control and monitoring equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation.

(2) For batch process vents subject to Table 2 to this subpart and continuous process vents subject to Table 3 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) If you route emissions to a control device other than a flare, keep records of performance tests, if applicable, as specified in § 63.998(a)(2)(ii) and (4), keep records of the monitoring system and the monitored parameters, as specified in § 63.998(b) and (c), and keep records of the closed-vent system, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1). If you use a recovery device to maintain the TRE above 1.0 for a continuous process vent, keep records of monitoring parameters during the TRE index value determination, as specified in § 63.998(a)(3).

(ii) If you route emissions to a flare, keep records of the flare compliance assessment, as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(i), keep records of the pilot flame monitoring, as specified in § 63.998(a)(1)(ii) and (iii), and keep records of the closed-vent system, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1).

(3) For metal HAP process vents subject to Table 4 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) For a new source using a control device other than a baghouse and for any existing source, maintain a monitoring plan, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(3)(i), and keep records of monitoring results, as specified in § 63.11496(f)(3).

(ii) For a new source using a baghouse to control metal HAP emissions, keep a site-specific monitoring plan, as specified in §§ 63.11496(f)(4) and 63.11410(g), and keep records of bag leak detection systems, as specified in §§ 63.11496(f)(4) and 63.11410(g)(4).

(4) For each storage tank subject to Table 5 to this subpart, you must keep records specified in paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (vi) of this section, as applicable.

(i) Keep records of the vessel dimensions, capacity, and liquid stored, as specified in § 63.1065(a).

(ii) Keep records of each inspection of an internal floating roof, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(1).

(iii) Keep records of each seal gap measurement for external floating roofs, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(2), and keep records of inspections of external floating roofs, as specified in § 63.1065(b)(1).

(iv) If you vent emissions to a control device other than a flare, keep records of the operating plan and measured parameter values, as specified in §§ 63.985(c) and 63.998(d)(2).

(v) If you vent emissions to a flare, keep records of all periods of operation during which the flare pilot flame is absent, as specified in §§ 63.987(c) and 63.998(a)(1), and keep records of closed-vent systems, as specified in § 63.998(d)(1).

(vi) For periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, keep records of the day and time at which each maintenance period begins and ends, and keep records of the type of maintenance performed, as specified in § 63.11497(b)(3).

(5) For each wastewater stream subject to Item 2 in Table 6 to this subpart, keep records of the wastewater stream identification and the disposition of the organic phase(s), as specified in Item 2 to Table 6 to this subpart.

(6) For each large heat exchange system subject to Table 8 to this subpart, you must keep records of detected leaks; the date the leak was detected; if demonstrated not to be a leak, the basis for that determination; the date of efforts to repair the leak; and the date the leak is repaired, as specified in Table 8 to this subpart.

(7) You must keep a record of all transferred liquids that are reactive or resinous materials, as defined in § 63.11502(b), and not included in the NOCS.

(8) For continuous process vents subject to Table 3 to this subpart, keep records of the occurrence and duration of each startup and shutdown of operation of process equipment, or of air pollution control and monitoring equipment.
