
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWWWW - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Plating and Polishing Operations
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11504 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a plating and polishing facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions and meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) A plating and polishing facility is a plant site that is engaged in one or more of the processes listed in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Electroplating other than chromium electroplating (i.e., non-chromium electroplating).

(ii) Electroless or non-eletrolytic plating.

(iii) Other non-electrolytic metal coating processes, such as chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating; and thermal spraying.

(iv) Dry mechanical polishing of finished metals and formed products after plating or thermal spraying.

(v) Electroforming.

(vi) Electropolishing.

(2) A plating or polishing facility is an area source of HAP emissions, where an area source is any stationary source or group of stationary sources within a contiguous area under common control that does not have the potential to emit any single HAP at a rate of 9.07 megagrams per year (Mg/yr) (10 tons per year (tpy)) or more and any combination of HAP at a rate of 22.68 Mg/yr (25 tpy) or more.

(3) Your plating and polishing facility uses or has emissions of compounds of one or more plating and polishing metal HAP, which means any compound of any of the following metals: cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel, as defined in ยง 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?" With the exception of lead, plating and polishing metal HAP also include any of these metals in the elemental form.

(b) [Reserved]
