
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWWWW - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Plating and Polishing Operations
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11505 What parts of my plant does this subpart cover?

(a) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source, as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section, at all times. A new source is defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"

(1) Each tank that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", and is used for non-chromium electroplating; electroforming; electropolishing; electroless plating or other non-electrolytic metal coating operations, such as chromate conversion coating, nickel acetate sealing, sodium dichromate sealing, and manganese phosphate coating.

(2) Each thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"

(3) Each dry mechanical polishing operation that emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"

(b) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before March 14, 2008.

(c) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after March 14, 2008.

(d) This subpart does not apply to any of the process units or operations described in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Process units that are subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 63, subpart N (National Emission Standards for Chromium Emissions from Hard and Decorative Chromium Electroplating and Chromium Anodizing Tanks).

(2) Research and development process units, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"

(3) Process units that are used strictly for educational purposes.

(4) Plating, polishing, coating, or thermal spraying conducted to repair surfaces or equipment.

(5) Dry mechanical polishing conducted to restore the original finish to a surface.

(6) Any plating or polishing process that uses process materials that contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel (as the metal) in amounts less than 0.1 percent by weight, or that contain manganese in amounts less than 1.0 percent by weight (as the metal), as used. Information used to determine the amount of plating and polishing metal HAP in materials used in the plating or polishing process may include information reported on the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material, but is not required. For plating or polishing tanks, the HAP content may be determined from the final bath contents "as used" to plate or to polish.

(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, "Title V," provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
