
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart WWWWWW - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Plating and Polishing Operations
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11507 What are my standards and management practices?

(a) If you own or operate an affected new or existing non-cyanide electroplating, electroforming, or electropolishing tank (hereafter referred to as an "electrolytic" process tank, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?") that contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP and operates at a pH of less than 12, you must comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, and implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.

(1) You must use a wetting agent/fume suppressant in the bath of the affected tank, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?" and according to paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must initially add the wetting agent/fume suppressant in the amounts recommended by the manufacturer for the specific type of electrolytic process.

(ii) You must add wetting agent/fume suppressant in proportion to the other bath chemistry ingredients that are added to replenish the bath, as in the original make-up of the bath, or in proportions such that the bath contents are returned to that of the original make-up of the bath.

(iii) If a wetting agent/fume suppressant is included in the electrolytic process bath chemicals used in the affected tank according to the manufacturer's instructions, it is not necessary to add additional wetting agent/fume suppressants to the tank to comply with this rule.

(2) You must capture and exhaust emissions from the affected tank to any one of the following emission control devices: composite mesh pad, packed bed scrubber, or mesh pad mist eliminator, according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must operate all capture and control devices according to the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions.

(ii) You must keep the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.

(3) You must cover the tank surface according to paragraph (a)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) For batch electrolytic process tanks, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", you must use a tank cover, as defined in § 63.11511, over all of the effective surface area of the tank for at least 95 percent of the electrolytic process operating time.

(ii) For continuous electrolytic process tanks, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", you must cover at least 75 percent of the surface of the tank, as defined in § 63.11511, whenever the electrolytic process tank is in operation.

(b) If you own or operate an affected new or existing "flash" or short-term electroplating tank, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", that uses or emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must comply with the requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2), and implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.

(1) You must limit short-term or "flash" electroplating to no more than 1 cumulative hour per day or 3 cumulative minutes per hour of plating time.

(2) You must use a tank cover, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", for at least 95 percent of the plating time.

(c) If you own or operate an affected new or existing process tank that is used both for short-term electroplating and for electrolytic processing of longer duration (i.e., processing that does not meet the definition of short-term or flash electroplating) and contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must meet the requirements specified in paragraph (a) or (b) of this section, whichever apply to the process operation, and implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.

(d) If you own or operate an affected new or existing electroplating tank that uses cyanide in the plating bath, operates at pH greater than or equal to 12, and contains one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section:

(1) You must measure and record the pH of the bath upon startup of the bath, as defined in § 63.11511, "What definitions apply to this subpart?" No additional pH measurements are required.

(2) You must implement the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.

(e) If you own or operate an affected new or existing dry mechanical polishing machine that emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must operate a capture system that captures particulate matter (PM) emissions from the dry mechanical polishing process and transports the emissions to a cartridge, fabric, or high efficiency particulate air (HEPA) filter, according to paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must operate all capture and control devices according to the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions.

(2) You must keep the manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions at the facility at all times in a location where they can be easily accessed by the operators.

(f) If you own or operate an affected thermal spraying operation that applies one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (3) of this section, and the applicable management practices in paragraph (g) of this section.

(1) For existing permanent thermal spraying operations, you must operate a capture system that collects PM emissions from the thermal spraying process and transports the emissions to a water curtain, fabric filter, cartridge, or HEPA filter, according to paragraphs (f)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(2) For new permanent thermal spraying operations, you must operate a capture system that collects PM emissions from the thermal spraying process and transports the emissions to a fabric, cartridge, or HEPA filter, according to paragraphs (f)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(3) For temporary thermal spraying operations, as defined in § 63.11511 "What definitions apply to this subpart?", you must meet the applicable requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) You must document the amount of time the thermal spraying occurs each day, and where it is conducted.

(ii) You must implement the applicable management practices specified in paragraph (g) of this section, as practicable.

(g) If you own or operate an affected new or existing plating and polishing process unit that contains, applies, or emits one or more of the plating and polishing metal HAP, you must implement the applicable management practices in paragraphs (g)(1) through (12) of this section, as practicable.

(1) Minimize bath agitation when removing any parts processed in the tank, as practicable except when necessary to meet part quality requirements.

(2) Maximize the draining of bath solution back into the tank, as practicable, by extending drip time when removing parts from the tank; using drain boards (also known as drip shields); or withdrawing parts slowly from the tank, as practicable.

(3) Optimize the design of barrels, racks, and parts to minimize dragout of bath solution (such as by using slotted barrels and tilted racks, or by designing parts with flow-through holes to allow the tank solution to drip back into the tank), as practicable.

(4) Use tank covers, if already owned and available at the facility, whenever practicable.

(5) Minimize or reduce heating of process tanks, as practicable (e.g., when doing so would not interrupt production or adversely affect part quality).

(6) Perform regular repair, maintenance, and preventive maintenance of racks, barrels, and other equipment associated with affected sources, as practicable.

(7) Minimize bath contamination, such as through the prevention or quick recovery of dropped parts, use of distilled/de-ionized water, water filtration, pre-cleaning of parts to be plated, and thorough rinsing of pre-treated parts to be plated, as practicable.

(8) Maintain quality control of chemicals, and chemical and other bath ingredient concentrations in the tanks, as practicable.

(9) Perform general good housekeeping, such as regular sweeping or vacuuming, if needed, and periodic washdowns, as practicable.

(10) Minimize spills and overflow of tanks, as practicable.

(11) Use squeegee rolls in continuous or reel-to-reel plating tanks, as practicable.

(12) Perform regular inspections to identify leaks and other opportunities for pollution prevention.
