
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXXXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants Area Source Standards for Nine Metal Fabrication and Finishing Source Categories
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11514 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an area source that is primarily engaged in the operations in one of the nine source categories listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section. Descriptions of these source categories are shown in Table 1 of this subpart. "Primarily engaged" is defined in § 63.11522, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"

(1) Electrical and Electronic Equipment Finishing Operations;

(2) Fabricated Metal Products;

(3) Fabricated Plate Work (Boiler Shops);

(4) Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing;

(5) Heating Equipment, except Electric;

(6) Industrial Machinery and Equipment Finishing Operations;

(7) Iron and Steel Forging;

(8) Primary Metal Products Manufacturing; and

(9) Valves and Pipe Fittings.

(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each new and existing affected source listed and defined in paragraphs (b)(1) through (5) of this section if you use materials that contain or have the potential to emit metal fabrication or finishing metal HAP (MFHAP), defined to be the compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, manganese, and nickel, or any of these metals in the elemental form with the exception of lead. Materials that contain MFHAP are defined to be materials that contain greater than 0.1 percent for carcinogens, as defined by OSHA at 29 CFR 1910.1200(d)(4), and greater than 1.0 percent for noncarcinogens. For the MFHAP, this corresponds to materials that contain cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel in amounts greater than or equal to 0.1 percent by weight (of the metal), and materials that contain manganese in amounts greater than or equal to 1.0 percent by weight (of the metal), as shown in formulation data provided by the manufacturer or supplier, such as the Material Safety Data Sheet for the material.

(1) A dry abrasive blasting affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform dry abrasive blasting operations which use materials that contain MFHAP or that have the potential to emit MFHAP.

(2) A machining affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform machining operations which use materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", or that have the potential to emit MFHAP.

(3) A dry grinding and dry polishing with machines affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform dry grinding and dry polishing with machines operations which use materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", or have the potential to emit MFHAP.

(4) A spray painting affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform spray-applied painting operations using paints which contain MFHAP. A spray painting affected source includes all equipment used to apply cleaning materials to a substrate to prepare it for paint application (surface preparation) or to remove dried paint; to apply a paint to a substrate (paint application) and to dry or cure the paint after application; or to clean paint operation equipment (equipment cleaning). Affected source(s) subject to the requirements of this paragraph are not subject to the miscellaneous surface coating provisions of subpart HHHHHH of this part, "National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Paint Stripping and Miscellaneous Surface Coating Operations at Area Sources."

(5) A welding affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to perform welding operations which use materials that contain MFHAP, as defined in § 63.11522, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", or have the potential to emit MFHAP.

(c) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source, as defined in § 63.2, "General Provisions" to part 63, before April 3, 2008.

(d) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source, as defined in § 63.2, "General Provisions" to part 63, on or after April 3, 2008.

(e) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(f) This subpart does not apply to tool or equipment repair operations, facility maintenance, or quality control activities as defined in § 63.11522, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"

(g) This subpart does not apply to operations performed on site at installations owned or operated by the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such state), the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, or the National Nuclear Security Administration.

(h) This subpart does not apply to operations that produce military munitions, as defined in § 63.11522, "What definitions apply to this subpart?", manufactured by or for the Armed Forces of the United States (including the Coast Guard and the National Guard of any such state), or equipment directly and exclusively used for the purposes of transporting military munitions.

(i) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
