
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXXXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants Area Source Standards for Nine Metal Fabrication and Finishing Source Categories
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11516 What are my standards and management practices?
######## Standards for spray painting for MFHAP control.

(1)All spray-applied painting of objects must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. These requirements do not apply to affected sources located at Fabricated Structural Metal Manufacturing facilities, as described in Table 1, "Description of Source Categories Affected by this Subpart," or affected sources that spray paint objects greater than 15 feet (4.57 meters), that are not spray painted in spray booths or spray rooms.

(i) Spray booths or spray rooms must have a full roof, at least two complete walls, and one or two complete side curtains or other barrier material so that all four sides are covered. The spray booths or spray rooms must be ventilated so that air is drawn into the booth and leaves only though the filter. The roof may contain narrow slots for connecting fabricated products to overhead cranes, and/or for cords or cables.

(ii) All spray booths or spray rooms must be fitted with a type of filter technology that is demonstrated to achieve at least 98 percent capture of MFHAP. The procedure used to demonstrate filter efficiency must be consistent with the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers (ASHRAE) Method 52.1, "Gravimetric and Dust-Spot Procedures for Testing Air-Cleaning Devices Used in General Ventilation for Removing Particulate Matter, June 4, 1992" (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14). The test coating for measuring filter efficiency shall be a high-solids bake enamel delivered at a rate of at least 135 grams per minute from a conventional (non-High Volume Low Pressure) air-atomized spray gun operating at 40 psi air pressure; the air flow rate across the filter shall be 150 feet per minute. Owners and operators may use published filter efficiency data provided by filter vendors to demonstrate compliance with this requirement and are not required to perform this measurement.

(iii) You must perform regular inspection and replacement of the filters in all spray booths or spray rooms according to manufacturer's instructions, and maintain documentation of these activities, as detailed in ยง 63.11519(c)(5), "Notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements."

(iv) As an alternative compliance requirement, spray booths or spray rooms equipped with a water curtain, called "waterwash" or "waterspray" booths or spray rooms that are operated and maintained according to the manufacturer's specifications and that achieve at least 98 percent control of MFHAP, may be used in lieu of the spray booths or spray rooms requirements of paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.
