
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXXXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants Area Source Standards for Nine Metal Fabrication and Finishing Source Categories
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11519 What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
######## Dates.

(2)Unless the Administrator has approved or agreed to a different schedule for submission of reports under ยง 63.10(a), "General Provisions," you must prepare and submit each annual certification and compliance report according to the dates specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. Note that the information reported for each of the months in the reporting period will be based on the last 12 months of data prior to the date of each monthly calculation.

(i) The first annual certification and compliance report must cover the first annual reporting period which begins the day after the compliance date and ends on December 31.

(ii) Each subsequent annual certification and compliance report must cover the subsequent semiannual reporting period from January 1 through December 31.

(iii) Each annual certification and compliance report must be prepared and submitted no later than January 31 and kept in a readily-accessible location for inspector review. If an exceedence has occurred during the year, each annual certification and compliance report must be submitted along with the exceedence reports, and postmarked or delivered no later than January 31.
