
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart XXXXXX - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants Area Source Standards for Nine Metal Fabrication and Finishing Source Categories
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11519 What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
######## Manufacturer's instructions.

(13)If you comply with this subpart by operating any equipment according to manufacturer's instruction, you must keep these instructions readily available for inspector review.

(14) Welding Rod usage. If you operate a new or existing welding affected source which is not required to comply with the requirements of § 63.11516(f)(3) through (8) because it uses less than 2,000 pounds per year of welding rod (on a rolling 12-month basis), you must maintain records demonstrating your welding rod usage on a rolling 12-month basis.

(15) Your records must be maintained according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(14)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1), "General Provisions." Where appropriate, the records may be maintained as electronic spreadsheets or as a database.

(ii) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), "General Provisions," you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each occurrence, measurement, corrective action, report, or record.

(iii) You must keep each record on-site for at least 2 years after the date of each occurrence, measurement, corrective action, report, or record according to § 63.10(b)(1), "General Provisions." You may keep the records off-site for the remaining 3 years.
