
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Ferroalloys Production Facilities
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11524 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a ferroalloys production facility that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions. A ferroalloys production facility manufactures silicon metal, ferrosilicon, ferrotitanium using the aluminum reduction process, ferrovanadium, ferromolybdenum, calcium silicon, silicomanganese zirconium, ferrochrome silicon, silvery iron, high-carbon ferrochrome, charge chrome, standard ferromanganese, silicomanganese, ferromanganese silicon, calcium carbide or other ferroalloy products using electrometallurgical operations including electric arc furnaces (EAFs) or other reaction vessels.

(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each existing and new electrometallurgical operation affected source as defined in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) An electrometallurgical operation affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the EAF or other reaction vessel on or before September 15, 2008.

(2) An electrometallurgical operation affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the EAF or other reaction vessel after September 15, 2008.

(c) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(d) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
