
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Ferroalloys Production Facilities
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11529 What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
######## Annual compliance certification.

(c)If you own or operate an affected source, you must submit an annual certification of compliance according to paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section.

(1) The results of any daily or weekly visual monitoring events required by § 63.11527(a)(1) and (b)(1), alarm-based visual monitoring at sources equipped with bag leak detection systems as required by § 63.11527(a)(4), or readings outside of the operating range at sources using CPMS on wet scrubbers required by § 63.11527(b)(4).

(2) The results of the follow up Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) tests that are required if VE are observed during the daily or weekly visual monitoring, alarm-based visual monitoring, or out-of-range operating readings as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) The results of the Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) or Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60) tests required by § 63.11528(b) and (c), respectively.

(4) If you operate a bag leak detection system for a fabric filter or a CPMS for a wet scrubber, submit annual reports according to the requirements in § 63.10(e) and include summary information on the number, duration, and cause (including unknown cause, if applicable) for monitor downtime incidents (other than downtime associated with zero and span or other calibration checks, if applicable).

(d) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(2) of this section.

(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification, Notification of Compliance Status, and annual compliance certifications that you submitted.

(2) You must keep the records of all daily or weekly visual, Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60), and Method 9 (appendix A-4 of 40 CFR part 60) monitoring data required by § 63.11527 and the information identified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (d)(2)(v) of this section.

(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event;

(ii) Person conducting the monitoring;

(iii) Technique or method used;

(iv) Operating conditions during the activity; and

(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem (e.g., VE) to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation.

(e) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).

(f) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.

(g) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.
