
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart YYYYYY - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Ferroalloys Production Facilities
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11527 What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?
######## Weekly visual monitoring.

(ii)If no visible fugitive emissions are detected in consecutive daily visual monitoring performed in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section for 90 days of operation of the process, you may decrease the frequency of visual monitoring to once per calendar week of time the process is in operation, during operation of the process. If visible fugitive emissions are detected during these inspections, you must resume daily visual monitoring of that operation during each day that the process is in operation, in accordance with paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section until you satisfy the criteria of this section to resume conducting weekly visual monitoring.

(2) If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must conduct a Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test following the requirements of ยง 63.11528(b)(1) within 24 hours of determining the presence of any VE.

(3) If you own or operate an existing affected source, you may install, operate and maintain a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to measure and record the 3-hour average pressure drop and scrubber water flow rate as an alternative to the monitoring requirements specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. If you own or operate a new sealed EAF affected source, you must install, operate, and maintain a CPMS for each wet scrubber. Such source is not subject to the requirements in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) When operating a CPMS, if the 3-hour average pressure drop or scrubber water flow rate is below the minimum levels that indicate normal operation of the control device, conduct visual monitoring of the outlet stack(s) as required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section within 1 hour of determining that the 3-hour average parameter value is below the required minimum levels. Manufacturer's specifications for pressure drop and liquid flow rate will be used to determine normal operations. If the visual monitoring reveals the presence of any VE, you must conduct a Method 22 (appendix A-7 of 40 CFR part 60) test following the requirements of ยง 63.11528(b)(1) within 24 hours of determining the presence of any VE.
