
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11551 What are my initial compliance requirements?

(a) Except as specified in paragraph (b) of this section, you must conduct a performance test for existing and new sources at a large copper or other nonferrous foundry that is subject to § 63.11550(b). You must conduct the test within 180 days of your compliance date and report the results in your Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h).

(b) If you own or operate an existing affected source at a large copper or other nonferrous foundry that is subject to § 63.11550(b), you are not required to conduct a performance test if a prior performance test was conducted within the past 5 years of the compliance date using the same methods specified in paragraph (c) of this section and you meet either of the following two conditions:

(1) No process changes have been made since the test; or

(2) You demonstrate to the satisfaction of the permitting authority that the results of the performance test, with or without adjustments, reliably demonstrate compliance despite process changes.

(c) You must conduct each performance test according to the requirements in § 63.7 and the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must determine the concentration of PM (for the concentration standard) or the mass rate of PM in pounds per hour at the inlet and outlet of the control device (for the percent reduction standard) according to the following test methods:

(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. If you are complying with the concentration provision in § 63.11550(b), sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere. If you are complying with the percent reduction provision in § 63.11550(b), sampling sites must be located at the inlet and outlet of the control device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1), or Method 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses" (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 5 or 5D (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) or Method 17 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6) to determine the concentration of PM or mass rate of PM (front half filterable catch only). If you choose to comply with the percent reduction PM standard, you must determine the mass rate of PM at the inlet and outlet in pounds per hour and calculate the percent reduction in PM.

(2) Three valid test runs are needed to comprise a performance test. Each run must cover at least one production cycle (charging, melting, and tapping).

(3) For a source with a single control device exhausted through multiple stacks, you must ensure that three runs are performed by a representative sampling of the stacks satisfactory to the Administrator or his or her delegated representative. You must provide data or an adequate explanation why the stack(s) chosen for testing are representative.
