
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11550 What are my standards and management practices?

(a) If you own or operate new or existing affected sources at an aluminum foundry, copper foundry, or other nonferrous foundry that is subject to this subpart, you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Cover or enclose each melting furnace that is equipped with a cover or enclosure during the melting operation to the extent practicable (e.g., except when access is needed; including, but not limited to charging, alloy addition, and tapping).

(2) Purchase only metal scrap that has been depleted (to the extent practicable) of aluminum foundry HAP, copper foundry HAP, or other nonferrous foundry HAP (as applicable) in the materials charged to the melting furnace, except metal scrap that is purchased specifically for its HAP metal content for use in alloying or to meet specifications for the casting. This requirement does not apply to material that is not scrap (e.g., ingots, alloys, sows) or to materials that are not purchased (e.g., internal scrap, customer returns).

(3) Prepare and operate pursuant to a written management practices plan. The management practices plan must include the required management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section and may include any other management practices that are implemented at the facility to minimize emissions from melting furnaces. You must inform your appropriate employees of the management practices that they must follow. You may use your standard operating procedures as the management practices plan provided the standard operating procedures include the required management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(b) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source that is located at a large foundry as defined in ยง 63.11556, you must comply with the additional requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For existing affected sources located at a large foundry, you must achieve a particulate matter (PM) control efficiency of at least 95.0 percent or emit no more than an outlet PM concentration limit of 0.034 grams per dry standard cubic meter (g/dscm) (0.015 grains per dry standard cubic feet (gr/dscf)).

(2) For new affected sources located at a large foundry, you must achieve a PM control efficiency of at least 99.0 percent or emit no more than an outlet PM concentration limit of at most 0.023 g/dscm (0.010 gr/dscf).

(c) If you own or operate an affected source at a small foundry that subsequently becomes a large foundry after the applicable compliance date, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must notify the Administrator within 30 days after the capacity increase or the production increase, whichever is appropriate;

(2) You must modify any applicable permit limits within 30 days after the capacity increase or the production increase to reflect the current production or capacity, if not done so prior to the increase;

(3) You must comply with the PM control requirements in paragraph (b) of this section no later than 2 years from the date of issuance of the permit for the capacity increase or production increase, or in the case of no permit issuance, the date of the increase in capacity or production, whichever occurs first.

(d) These standards apply at all times.
