
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11553 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 calendar days after June 25, 2009 or within 120 days after the source becomes subject to the standard. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section and may be combined with the Notification of Compliance Status required in paragraph (b) of this section.

(1) The name and address of the owner or operator;

(2) The address (i.e., physical location) of the affected source; and

(3) An identification of the relevant standard, or other requirement, that is the basis of the notification and source's compliance date.

(b) You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status required by § 63.9(h) no later than 120 days after the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11545 unless you must conduct a performance test. If you must conduct a performance test, you must submit the Notification of Compliance Status within 60 days of completing the performance test. Your Notification of Compliance Status must indicate if you are a small or large foundry as defined in § 63.11556, the production amounts as the basis for the determination, and if you are a large foundry, whether you elect to comply with the control efficiency requirement or PM concentration limit in § 63.11550(b). In addition to the information required in § 63.9(h)(2) and § 63.11551, your notification must include the following certification(s) of compliance, as applicable, and signed by a responsible official:

(1) "This facility will operate in a manner that minimizes HAP emissions from the melting operations to the extent possible. This includes at a minimum that the owners and/or operators of the affected source will cover or enclose each melting furnace that is equipped with a cover or enclosure during melting operations to the extent practicable as required in 63.11550(a)(1)."

(2) "This facility agrees to purchase only metal scrap that has been depleted (to the extent practicable) of aluminum foundry HAP, copper foundry HAP, or other nonferrous foundries HAP (as applicable) in the materials charged to the melting furnace, except for metal scrap that is purchased specifically for its HAP metal content for use in alloying or to meet specifications for the casting as required by 63.11550(a)(2)."

(3) "This facility has prepared and will operate by a written management practices plan according to § 63.11550(a)(3)."

(4) If the owner or operator of an existing affected source at a large foundry is certifying compliance based on the results of a previous performance test: "This facility complies with § 63.11550(b) based on a previous performance test in accordance with § 63.11551(b)."

(5) This certification of compliance is required by the owner or operator that installs bag leak detection systems: "This facility has installed a bag leak detection system in accordance with § 63.11552(b)(3) or (c), has prepared a bag leak detection system monitoring plan in accordance with § 63.11552(c), and will operate each bag leak detection system according to the plan."

(c) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.

(2) You must keep records to document conformance with the management practices plan required by § 63.11550 as specified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) For melting furnaces equipped with a cover or enclosure, records must identify each melting furnace equipped with a cover or enclosure and document that the procedures in the management practices plan were followed during the monthly inspections. These records may be in the form of a checklist.

(ii) Records documenting that you purchased only metal scrap that has been depleted of HAP metals (to the extent practicable) charged to the melting furnace. If you purchase scrap metal specifically for the HAP metal content for use in alloying or to meet specifications for the casting, you must keep records to document that the HAP metal is included in the material specifications for the cast metal product.

(3) You must keep the records of all performance tests, inspections and monitoring data required by §§ 63.11551 and 63.11552, and the information identified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for each required inspection or monitoring.

(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event;

(ii) Person conducting the monitoring;

(iii) Technique or method used;

(iv) Operating conditions during the activity;

(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem (e.g., VE) to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation; and

(vi) Maintenance or corrective action taken (if applicable).

(4) If you own or operate a new or existing affected source at a small foundry that is not subject to § 63.11550(b), you must maintain records to document that your facility melts less than 6,000 tpy total of copper, other nonferrous metal, and all associated alloys (excluding aluminum) in each calendar year.

(5) If you use a bag leak detection system, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Records of the bag leak detection system output.

(ii) Records of bag leak detection system adjustments, including the date and time of the adjustment, the initial bag leak detection system settings, and the final bag leak detection system settings.

(iii) The date and time of all bag leak detection system alarms, and for each valid alarm, the time you initiated corrective action, the corrective action taken, and the date on which corrective action was completed.

(d) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action. For records of annual metal melt production, you must keep the records for 5 years from the end of the calendar year. You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.

(e) If a deviation occurs during a semiannual reporting period, you must submit a compliance report to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The first reporting period covers the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.11545 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after your compliance date. Each subsequent reporting period covers the semiannual period from January 1 through June 30 or from July 1 through December 31. Your compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(2) A compliance report must include the information in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iv) Identification of the affected source, the pollutant being monitored, applicable requirement, description of deviation, and corrective action taken.
