
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart ZZZZZZ - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Area Source Standards for Aluminum, Copper, and Other Nonferrous Foundries
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11544 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate an aluminum foundry, copper foundry, or other nonferrous foundry as defined in § 63.11556, "What definitions apply to this subpart?" that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions as defined in § 63.2 and meets the criteria specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Once you are subject to this subpart, you must remain subject to this subpart even if you subsequently do not meet the criteria in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Your aluminum foundry uses material containing aluminum foundry HAP, as defined in § 63.11556, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"; or

(2) Your copper foundry uses material containing copper foundry HAP, as defined in § 63.11556, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"; or

(3) Your other nonferrous foundry uses material containing other nonferrous foundry HAP, as defined in § 63.11556, "What definitions apply to this subpart?".

(4) Your aluminum foundry, copper foundry, or other nonferrous foundry has an annual metal melt production (for existing affected sources) or an annual metal melt capacity (for new affected sources) of at least 600 tons per year (tpy) of aluminum, copper, and other nonferrous metals, including all associated alloys. You must determine the annual metal melt production and capacity for the time period as described in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section. The quantity of ferrous metals melted in iron or steel melting operations and the quantity of nonferrous metal melted in non-foundry melting operations are not included in determining the annual metal melt production for existing affected sources or the annual metal melt capacity for new affected sources.

(i) If you own or operate a melting operation at an aluminum, copper or other nonferrous foundry as of February 9, 2009, you must determine if you are subject to this rule based on your facility's annual metal melt production for calendar year 2010.

(ii) If you construct or reconstruct a melting operation at an aluminum, copper or other nonferrous foundry after February 9, 2009, you must determine if you are subject to this rule based on your facility's annual metal melt capacity at startup.

(iii) If your foundry with an existing melting operation increases production after calendar year 2010 such that the annual metal melt production equals or exceeds 600 tpy, you must submit a written notification of applicability to the Administrator within 30 days after the end of the calendar year and comply within 2 years after the date of the notification.

(iv) If your foundry with a new melting operation increases capacity after startup such that the annual metal melt capacity equals or exceeds 600 tpy, you must submit a written notification of applicability to the Administrator within 30 days after the capacity increase year and comply at the time of the capacity increase.

(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source located at an aluminum, copper or other nonferrous foundry that is an area source as defined by § 63.2. The affected source is the collection of all melting operations located at an aluminum, copper, or other nonferrous foundry.

(c) An affected source is an existing source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before February 9, 2009.

(d) An affected source is a new source if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after February 9, 2009.

(e) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.

(f) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a) for a reason other than your status as an area source under this subpart. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart applicable to area sources.
