
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11559 Am I subject to this subpart?
######## Asphalt roofing manufacturing.

(2)The affected source for asphalt roofing manufacturing operations is the collection of all asphalt coating equipment, as defined in ยง 63.11566, at an asphalt roofing manufacturing operation.

(c) This subpart does not apply to hot mix asphalt plant operations that are used in the paving of roads or hardstand, or operations where asphalt may be used in the fabrication of a built-up roof.

(d) An affected source is a new affected source if you commenced construction or reconstruction after July 9, 2009.

(e) An affected source is reconstructed if it meets the criteria as defined in ยง 63.2.

(f) An affected source is an existing source if it is not new or reconstructed.

(g) This subpart does not apply to research or laboratory facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.

(h) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
