
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11564 What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
######## e.g.,

(1) If you are using a control device to comply with the emission limits, the compliance report must identify the controlled units (blowing stills, saturators, coating mixers, coaters). If you are not using a control device to comply with the emission limits, the compliance report must identify the site-specific process operating parameters monitored to determine compliance with the emission limits.

(2) During periods for which there are no deviations from any emission limitations (emission limit or operating limit) that apply to you, the compliance report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(v) of this section.

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iv) A statement that there were no deviations from the emission limitations during the reporting period.

(v) If there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control as specified in § 63.8(c)(7), a statement that there were no periods during which the CPMS was out-of-control during the reporting period.

(3) For each deviation from an emission limitation (emission limit and operating limit), you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (b)(3)(xii) of this section.

(i) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped.

(ii) The date and time that each CPMS was inoperative, except for zero (low-level) and high-level checks.

(iii) The date, time and duration that each CPMS was out-of-control, including the information in § 63.8(c)(8).

(iv) The date and time that each deviation started and stopped, and whether each deviation occurred during a period of startup, shutdown, or malfunction or during another period.

(v) A summary of the total duration of the deviation during the reporting period and the total duration as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(vi) A breakdown of the total duration of the deviations during the reporting period into those that are due to startup, shutdown, control equipment problems, process problems, other known causes, and other unknown causes.

(vii) A summary of the total duration of CPMS downtime during the reporting period and the total duration of CPMS downtime as a percent of the total source operating time during that reporting period.

(viii) An identification of each air pollutant that was monitored at the affected source.

(ix) A brief description of the process units.

(x) A brief description of the CPMS.

(xi) The date of the latest CPMS certification or audit.

(xii) A description of any changes in CPMS or controls since the last reporting period.

(4) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each report specified in paragraph (b) of this section according to the following dates:

(i) The first compliance report must cover the period beginning on the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11560 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your source in § 63.11560.

(ii) The first compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date follows the end of the first calendar half after the compliance date that is specified for your affected source in § 63.11560.

(iii) Each subsequent compliance report must cover the semiannual reporting period from January 1 through June 30 or the semiannual reporting period from July 1 through December 31.

(iv) Each subsequent compliance report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date is the first date following the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(c) You must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(10) of this section.

(1) A copy of each notification and report that you submitted to comply with this subpart, including all documentation supporting any Initial Notification or Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted, according to the requirements in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv).

(2) Copies of emission tests used to demonstrate compliance and performance evaluations as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii).

(3) Documentation that shows that the following conditions are true if you use a previously-conducted emission test to demonstrate initial compliance as specified in § 63.11562(a)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(ii), and (c)(1)(ii):

(i) The test was conducted within the last 5 years;

(ii) No changes have been made to the process since the time of the emission test;

(iii) The operating conditions and test methods used for the previous test conform to the requirements of this subpart; and

(iv) The data used to establish the value or range of values of the operating parameters, as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2)(ii), (b)(2)(ii), or (c)(2)(ii), were recorded during the emission test.

(4) Documentation that identifies the operating parameters and values specified in Table 4 of this subpart and that contains the data used to establish the parameter values as specified in § 63.11562(a)(2), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (c)(2).

(5) Copies of the written manufacturers performance specifications used to establish operating parameter values as specified in § 63.11562(b)(3)(iii).

(6) Documentation of the process knowledge and engineering calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance as specified in § 63.11562(e).

(7) Documentation of the process knowledge and engineering calculations used to establish the value or range of values of operating parameters as specified in § 63.11562(f).

(8) A copy of the site-specific monitoring plan required under § 63.11563(b) or (g).

(9) A copy of the approved alternative monitoring plan required under § 63.11563(h), if applicable.

(10) Records of the operating parameter values required in Table 4 of this subpart to show continuous compliance with each operating limit that applies to you.
