
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart AAAAAAA - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Asphalt Processing and Asphalt Roofing Manufacturing
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11564 What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?

(a) You must submit the notifications specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) of this section.

(1) You must submit all of the notifications in §§ 63.5(b), 63.7(b); 63.8(e) and (f); 63.9(b) through (e); and 63.9(g) and (h) that apply to you by the dates specified in those sections.

(2) As specified in § 63.9(b)(2), if you have an existing affected source, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after December 2, 2009, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later.

(3) As specified in § 63.9(b)(4) and (5), if you have a new affected source, you must submit an Initial Notification not later than 120 calendar days after you become subject to this subpart.

(4) You must submit a notification of intent to conduct a compliance test at least 60 calendar days before the compliance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(5) You must submit a Notification of Compliance Status according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You must submit the Notification of Compliance Status, including the compliance test results, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the completion of the compliance test according to § 63.10(d)(2).

(6) If you are using data from a previously-conducted emission test to serve as documentation of compliance with the emission standards and operating limits of this subpart, you must submit the test data in lieu of the initial compliance test results with the Notification of Compliance Status required under paragraph (a)(5) of this section.

(b) You must submit a compliance report as specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.
