
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11583 What are my monitoring requirements?

To demonstrate continuous compliance with the emissions standard in Table 1, you must use one of the monitoring methods described in paragraphs (a), (b) or (c) of this section while equipment within a chemical preparation operation are in target HAP service:

(a) Operate a bag leak detection system with alarm that will alert operators of a leak in the control device filter material. If a bag leak detection system with alarm is used to demonstrate compliance, then the following steps must be performed:

(1) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each bag leak detection system and alarm according to manufacturer's specifications, and as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(2) The bag leak detection system and alarm must be maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices at all times.

(b) Operate a control device parameter (such as pressure drop or water flow, as appropriate) monitor and alarm system that will alert operators that the control device is operating outside the upper or lower threshold or range established by the control device manufacturer that indicate proper operation of the control device to meet the emissions reduction or PM concentration requirements.

(1) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each control device parameter monitor and alarm system according to manufacturer's specifications, and as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) The control device parameter monitor and alarm system must be maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices at all times.

(c) Operate a continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) to monitor control device operation. If a CPMS is used to demonstrate compliance, then the following steps must be performed:

(1) Establish and maintain site-specific control device parameter values that indicate proper operation of the control device to meet the emissions reduction or PM concentration requirements.

(2) You must operate the continuous parameter monitoring system (CPMS) during all periods when the process equipment is in target HAP service and use all the data collected during these periods in assessing the operation of the process vent collection system and control device.

(d) You must install, calibrate, operate, and maintain each control device CPMS according to manufacturer's specifications, and as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.

(1) The CPMS must be maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices at all times.

(2) The CPMS must complete a minimum of one cycle of operation for each successive 15-minute period.

(3) To determine the 24-hour rolling average for the monitored parameter(s), you must:

(i) Have data from at least three of four equally spaced data values for that hour from a CPMS, except as stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) Determine each successive 24-hour rolling average from all recorded readings for each 24-hour period, except as stated in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(4) For averaging periods of monitoring data from production in target HAP service less than 24 hours, you must:

(i) Have valid data from at least three of four equally spaced data values for each hour from a CPMS that is not out-of-control according to your manufacturer's recommendations.

(ii) Determine the average from all recorded readings for the production period, except as stated in ยง 63.11583(c)(2).

(5) You must record the results of each calibration and validation check of the CPMS.

(e) For each pressure measurement device, you must meet the requirements of paragraph (b) or (c) of this section, as applicable, and the following:

(1) Locate the pressure sensor(s) in, or as close as possible to, a position that provides a representative measurement of the pressure.

(2) Use a gauge with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 0.12 kiloPascals or a transducer with a minimum measurement sensitivity of 5 percent of the pressure range.

(3) Check pressure tap for plugging daily. Perform an accuracy check at least quarterly or following an operating parameter deviation:

(i) According to the manufacturer's procedures; or

(ii) By comparing the sensor output to redundant sensor output.

(4) Conduct calibration checks any time the sensor exceeds the manufacturer's specified maximum operating pressure range or install a new pressure sensor.

(5) At least monthly or following an operating parameter deviation, perform a leak check of all components for integrity, all electrical connections for continuity, and all mechanical connections for leakage, if redundant sensors are not used.

(6) You must record the results of the plugging, accuracy and calibration checks specified in paragraphs (e)(3) through (e)(5) of this section in accordance with ยง 63.11585.

(f) For each monitoring system required in this section, you must develop and make available for inspection by the delegated authority, upon request, a site-specific monitoring plan that addresses the following:

(1) Selection and justification of the monitored parameter that indicates proper operation of the control device to meet the emissions limitation, if the parameter measured is something other than pressure drop.
