
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11582 What are my compliance requirements?

(a) You must demonstrate initial compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf particulate matter (PM) concentration requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart as follows:

(1) Using the methods specified in Table 2 of this subpart, or

(2) For existing sources only, using the results of an emissions test conducted in the past 5 years, provided the test meets the following requirements.

(i) The test was conducted under conditions that represent normal operation.

(ii) The test was performed using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart.

(iii) The test was conducted with a minimum of three separate test runs, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3).

(b) If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements in Table 1 of this subpart by conducting an emissions test, you must follow the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section and include the results in your Notification of Compliance Status Report (NOCSR) in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(3).

(1) You must conduct the tests under conditions that represent normal operation.

(2) You must perform the test using the methods specified in Table 3 of this subpart.

(3) You must conduct a minimum of three separate test runs for each performance test required in this section, as specified in § 63.7(e)(3).

(4) You must use the following equation to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart:

(c) If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart by providing control device manufacturer's performance guarantee information, then you must include the following information in your NOCSR (in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(3)).

(1) Control device make, model, and installation date.

(2) Performance guarantee certificate provided by the control device manufacturer.

(3) If a filter is used to control PM, performance guarantee information for the fabric or fiber filters used in the control device.

(d) If you choose to demonstrate compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart by providing engineering calculations, then the calculations and supporting documentation must contain the items specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section. These calculations and supporting documentation must be included in your NOCSR (in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(3)).

(1) Calculations and supporting documentation, such as delivery receipts, production logs and raw material safety data sheets that quantify the amount of raw materials used in the manufacture of chemical preparations (as defined in § 63.11588) in the prior calendar year.

(2) Calculations and supporting documentation, such as sales receipts, production logs and product material safety data sheets (MSDS) for chemical preparations (as defined in § 63.11588) products that quantify the amount of products produced by the chemical preparations operations in the prior calendar year.

(3) Calculations and supporting documentation of raw material losses to the atmosphere from the chemical preparations operations. This quantity (Qi in the equations in paragraph (5) of this section) is the amount of target HAP-containing PM in the uncontrolled air emissions from the chemical preparations operation, and does not include quantified and documented losses to solid or liquid waste streams, or material that is recycled back into the chemical preparations operation.

(4) Calculation and supporting documentation of quantities of target HAP-containing PM captured by the vent collection system and PM control device for the calendar year prior to the compliance date (Qo in the equations in paragraph (5) of this section).

(5) Use one of the following calculation methods to demonstrate compliance with the requirements specified in Table 1 of this subpart:

(i) For emission reduction, use the results of the calculations from paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section in the following equation:

(ii) For the 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration, use the results of calculations from paragraphs (d)(3) and (d)(4) of this section in the following equation:

(e) If you are certifying that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, then you must:

(1) Include the following information in your NOCSR (in accordance with § 63.11585(b)(6)).

(i) A certification statement by the responsible official that certifies that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf. The statement shall contain that official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the certification statement.

(ii) Engineering calculations and supporting documentation containing:

(A) The annual raw material losses to the atmosphere from paragraph (d)(3) of this section; and

(B) The calculation of the PM concentration of process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service from paragraph (d)(5)(ii) of this section, using zero for the parameter Qo since there is no control device, given in gr/dscf.
