
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11584 What are my initial and continuous compliance management practice requirements?

(a) For each new and existing affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting the inspection activities in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and demonstrate ongoing compliance by conducting the inspection activities in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) Initial vent collection system and particulate control device inspections. You must conduct an initial inspection of each vent collection system and particulate control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary. You must conduct each inspection no later than 180 days after your applicable compliance date for each control device which has been operated within 180 days following the compliance date. For a control device which has not been installed or operated within 180 days following the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.

(i) For each wet particulate control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment. You must also visually inspect the vent collection system ductwork and control equipment for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?") and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system.

(ii) For each dry particulate control system, you must visually inspect the vent collection system ductwork and dry particulate control unit for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"). You must also inspect the inside of each dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and condition.

(iii) An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet or dry particulate control system is not required if there is a record that an inspection has been performed within the past 12 months and any maintenance actions have been resolved.

(iv) An initial inspection of ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect is not required.

(2) Ongoing vent collection system and particulate control device inspections. Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections of each vent collection system and PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary.

(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet control system according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet particulate control system.

(B) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork and wet particulate control equipment for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?").

(C) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.

(D) You are required to inspect ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect only during periods when it is safe or physically possible to do so.

(ii) You must inspect and maintain each dry particulate control unit according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?").

(B) You must conduct inspections of the interior of the dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter (if applicable) every 12 months.

(C) You are required to inspect ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect only during periods when it is safe or physically possible to do so.

(b) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section for each inspection activity.

(1) The date, place, and time;

(2) Person conducting the activity;

(3) Method of inspection;

(4) Operating conditions during the activity;

(5) Results; and

(6) Description of any correction actions taken.

(c) At all times the owner or operator must operate and maintain any affected source, including associated air pollution control equipment and monitoring equipment, in a manner consistent with safety and good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions. The general duty to minimize emissions does not require the owner or operator to make any further efforts to reduce emissions if levels required by this standard have been achieved. Determination of whether such operation and maintenance procedures are being used will be based on information available to the Administrator which may include, but is not limited to, monitoring results, review of operation and maintenance procedures, review of operation and maintenance records, and inspection of the source.

(d) If you have provided certification that each process vent stream from equipment in target HAP service will not contain a PM concentration greater than 0.03 gr/dscf, the management practice requirements are as follows:

(1) You must conduct an initial visual inspection of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?").

(2) You must conduct monthly visual inspections of the vent collection system ductwork for leaks (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?").

(3) You are required to inspect ductwork that is unsafe or difficult to inspect only during periods when it is safe or physically possible to do so.

(4) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (d)(4)(i) through (iv) of this section for each inspection.

(i) The date, place, and time;

(ii) Person conducting the activity;

(iii) Results; and

(iv) Description of any correction actions taken.
