
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### § 63.11579 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you meet all of the following conditions:

(1) You own or operate a chemical preparations facility (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?"),

(2) The chemical preparations facility is a stationary area source of hazardous air pollutants (HAP) (as defined in § 63.2), and

(3) The chemical preparations facility has at least one chemical preparations operation in target HAP service (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?").

(b) The affected source is all chemical preparations operations (as defined in § 63.11588, "What definitions apply to this subpart?") located at a facility that meets the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction, as defined in § 63.2, of the affected source before August 5, 2009.

(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction, as defined in § 63.2, of the affected source on or after August 5, 2009.

(c) On and after December 30, 2009, if your chemical preparations operation becomes a major source, as defined in § 63.2, you must continue to meet the requirements of this subpart in addition to any maximum achievable control technology standards which may apply at that time.

(d) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act.

(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continuously comply with the provisions of this subpart.

(f) You are exempt from the requirements specified in this subpart if the chemical preparations operations at your facility are subject to the requirements specified in subpart VVVVVV or subpart CCCCCCC of this part.
