
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart BBBBBBB - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Chemical Preparations Industry
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11585 What are my notification, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements?
######## Initial Notification of Applicability.

(1)If you own or operate an existing affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability as required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than April 29, 2010, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, whichever is later. If you own or operate a new affected source, you must submit an initial notification of applicability required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 days after initial start-up of operation, or no later than 120 days after the source becomes subject to this subpart, or April 29, 2010, whichever is later. The initial notification of applicability must include the information specified in §§ 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (iii).

(2) Notification of Intent to conduct a Performance Test. If you elect to conduct a performance test, you must submit a notification of intent to conduct a performance test at least 60 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to begin, as required in § 63.7(b)(1).

(3) Notification of Compliance Status Report (NOCSR). You must submit a NOCSR according to § 63.9(h)(2)(ii). You must submit the NOCSR, including the performance test results, if applicable, before the close of business on the 60th calendar day following the applicable compliance date specified in § 63.11580 or completion of the performance test, whichever is sooner. The NOCSR must include the information in § 63.9(h)(2)(i)(A) through (G) necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard as of the applicable compliance date.

(4) If you have an existing source and are using data from a previously conducted performance test to serve as documentation of compliance with the emission reduction or 0.03 gr/dscf PM concentration requirements of this subpart, you must submit the test data in lieu of the initial performance test results with the NOCSR required under paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(5) You must provide the results of the initial management practices required by § 63.11584(a)(1) and (d)(1).

(6) If you are providing certification that the particulate matter concentration of each of the process vent streams from equipment in target HAP service within a chemical preparation operation will not exceed 0.03 gr/dscf, you must submit this certification in the NOCSR required in paragraph (b)(3) of this section. You must submit the certification statement, including the supporting calculations or performance test results, if applicable. The certification statement and supporting documentation must include the information in § 63.11582(e)(1) necessary to demonstrate compliance with the emission standard as of the compliance date.

(c) What reports must I submit and when?

(1) You must submit compliance reports as specified in Table 5 of this subpart that applies to you.

(2) Unless the Administrator has approved a different schedule for submission of reports under § 63.10(a), you must submit each compliance report specified in Table 5 of this subpart according to the following dates:

(i) If deviations occur, then:
