
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11599 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a facility that performs paints and allied products manufacturing that is an area source of hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions and processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP, as defined in ยง 63.11607.

(b) The affected source consists of all paints and allied products manufacturing processes that process, use, or generate materials containing HAP at the facility.

(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction before June 1, 2009.

(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or after June 1, 2009.

(3) A facility becomes an affected source when you commence processing, using, or generating materials containing HAP, as defined in ยง 63.11607.

(c) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3(a). Whether you have a title V permit or not, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.

(d) An affected source is no longer subject to this subpart if the facility no longer processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP and does not plan to process, use or generate materials containing HAP in the future.

(e) The standards of this subpart do not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the CAA.
