
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11602 What are the performance test and compliance requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) For each new and existing affected source, you must demonstrate initial compliance by conducting the inspection and monitoring activities in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and ongoing compliance by conducting the inspection and testing activities in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) Initial particulate control device inspections and tests. You must conduct an initial inspection of each particulate control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section and perform a visible emissions test according to the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection and test according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary.You must conduct each inspection no later than 180 days after your applicable compliance date for each control device which has been operated within 60 days following the compliance date. For a control device which has not been installed or operated within 60 days following the compliance date, you must conduct an initial inspection prior to startup of the control device.

(i) For each wet particulate control system, you must verify the presence of water flow to the control equipment. You must also visually inspect the system ductwork and control equipment for leaks and inspect the interior of the control equipment (if applicable) for structural integrity and the condition of the control system.

(ii) For each dry particulate control system, you must visually inspect the system ductwork and dry particulate control unit for leaks. You must also inspect the inside of each dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and condition.

(iii) An initial inspection of the internal components of a wet or dry particulate control system is not required if there is a record that an inspection meeting the requirements of this subsection has been performed within the past 12 months and any maintenance actions have been resolved.

(iv) For each particulate control device, you must conduct a visible emission test consisting of three 1-minute test runs using Method 203C (40 CFR part 51, appendix M). The visible emission test runs must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. If the average test results of the visible emissions test runs indicate an opacity greater than the applicable limitation in § 63.11601(a), you must take corrective action and retest within 15 days.

(2) Ongoing particulate control device inspections and tests. Following the initial inspections, you must perform periodic inspections of each PM control device according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section. You must record the results of each inspection according to paragraph (b) of this section and perform corrective action where necessary. You must also conduct tests according to the requirements in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section and record the results according to paragraph (b) of this section.

(i) You must inspect and maintain each wet particulate control system according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) You must conduct a daily inspection to verify the presence of water flow to the wet particulate control system.

(B) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of any flexible ductwork for leaks.

(C) You must conduct inspections of the rigid, stationary ductwork for leaks, and the interior of the wet control system (if applicable) to determine the structural integrity and condition of the control equipment every 12 months.

(ii) You must inspect and maintain each dry particulate control unit according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) You must conduct weekly visual inspections of any flexible ductwork for leaks.

(B) You must conduct inspections of the rigid, stationary ductwork for leaks, and the interior of the dry particulate control unit for structural integrity and to determine the condition of the fabric filter (if applicable) every 12 months.

(iii) For each particulate control device, you must conduct a 5-minute visual determination of emissions from the particulate control device every 3 months using Method 22 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7). The visible emission test must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. If visible emissions are observed for two minutes of the required 5-minute observation period, you must conduct a Method 203C (40 CFR part 51, appendix M) test within 15 days of the time when visible emissions were observed. The Method 203C test will consist of three 1-minute test runs and must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel HAP to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. If the Method 203C test runs indicates an opacity greater than the limitation in § 63.11601(a)(5), you must comply with the requirements in paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) You must take corrective action and retest using Method 203C within 15 days. The Method 203C test will consist of three 1-minute test runs and must be performed during the addition of dry pigments and solids containing compounds of cadmium, chromium, lead, or nickel to a process vessel or to the grinding and milling equipment. You must continue to take corrective action and retest each 15 days until a Method 203C test indicates an opacity equal to or less than the limitation in § 63.11601(a)(5).

(B) You must prepare a deviation report in accordance with § 63.11603(b)(3) for each instance in which the Method 203C opacity results were greater than the limitation in § 63.11601(a)(5).

(C) You must resume the visible determinations of emissions from the particulate control device in accordance with paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section 3 months after the previous visible determination.

(b) You must record the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section for each inspection and testing activity.

(1) The date, place, and time;

(2) Person conducting the activity;

(3) Technique or method used;

(4) Operating conditions during the activity;

(5) Results; and

(6) Description of correction actions taken.
