
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart CCCCCCC - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Paints and Allied Products Manufacturing
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11603 What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
######## Records.

(c)You must maintain the records specified I paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c)(5) through (6) of this section, for five years after the date of each recorded action.

(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, and all documentation supporting any Notification of Applicability and Notification of Compliance Status that you submitted.

(2) You must keep a copy of each Annual Compliance Certification Report prepared in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) You must keep records of all inspections and tests as required by § 63.11602(b).

(4) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1).

(5) As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action.

(6) You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.

(d) If you no longer process, use, or generate materials containing HAP after December 3, 2009, you must submit a Notification in accordance with § 63.11599(d), which must include the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Your company's name and address;

(2) A statement by a responsible official indicating that the facility no longer processes, uses, or generates materials containing HAP, as defined in § 63.11607, and that there are no plans to process, use or generate such materials in the future. This statement should also include the date by which the company ceased using materials containing HAP, as defined in 63.11607, and the responsible official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature.
