
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11621 What are the standards for new and existing prepared feeds manufacturing facilities?

You must comply with the management practices and standards in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section at all times. For pelleting operations at prepared feeds manufacturing facilities with an average daily feed production level exceeding 50 tons per day, you must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (e) of this section at all times if you are a new source, and if you are an existing source, you must also comply with the requirements in paragraph (f) of this section at all times.

(a) In all areas of the affected source where materials containing chromium or manganese are stored, used, or handled, you must comply with the management practices in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must perform housekeeping measures to minimize excess dust. These measures must include, but not be limited to, the practices specified in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) You must use either an industrial vacuum system or manual sweeping to reduce the amount of dust;

(ii) At least once per month, you must remove dust from walls, ledges, and equipment using low pressure air or by other means, and then sweep or vacuum the area;

(iii) You must keep exterior doors in the immediate affected areas shut except during normal ingress and egress, as practicable. This paragraph (a)(1)(iii) does not apply to areas where finished product is stored in closed containers, and no other materials containing chromium or manganese are present.

(2) You must maintain and operate all process equipment in accordance with manufacturer's specifications and in a manner to minimize dust creation.

(b) You must store any raw materials containing chromium or manganese in closed containers.

(c) The mixer where materials containing chromium or manganese are added must be covered at all times when mixing is occurring, except when the materials are being added to the mixer. Materials containing chromium or manganese must be added to the mixer in a manner that minimizes emissions.

(d) For the bulk loading process where materials containing chromium or manganese are loaded into trucks or railcars, you must lessen fugitive emissions by reducing the distance between the loadout spout and the vehicle being loaded by either paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section.

(1) Use a device of any kind at the bulk loadout spout that minimizes the distance to the vehicle being loaded.

(2) Use any other means to minimize the distance between the loadout spout and the vehicle being loaded.

(e) For the pelleting operations at new prepared feeds manufacturing facilities with an average daily feed production level exceeding 50 tons per day, you must capture emissions and route them to a cyclone designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater. You must also comply with the provisions in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must demonstrate that the cyclone is designed to reduce emissions of particulate matter by 95 percent or greater using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Manufacturer specifications;

(ii) Certification by a professional engineer or responsible official; or

(iii) A performance test conducted in accordance with ยง 63.11623 of this section.

(2) You must establish an inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone in accordance with the applicable requirement in paragraphs (e)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) If you demonstrate the cyclone design efficiency using manufacturer specifications in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone must be provided by the manufacturer.

(ii) If you demonstrate the cyclone design efficiency using certification by a professional engineer or responsible official in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section, this certification must include calculations to establish an inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range that represents proper operation of the cyclone.

(iii) If you demonstrate the cyclone design efficiency using a performance test in accordance with paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section, you must monitor the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage during the test and establish a range that represents proper operation of the cyclone based on the data obtained during the test.

(3) You must maintain and operate the cyclone in accordance with manufacturer's specifications. If manufacturer's specifications are not available, you must develop and follow standard maintenance and operating procedures that ensure proper operation of the cyclone.

(f) For the pelleting operations at existing prepared feeds manufacturing facilities with an average daily feed production level exceeding 50 tons per day, you must capture emissions and route them to a cyclone. The cyclone must be maintained in accordance with good air pollution control practices and manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions, if available. If manufacturer's specifications and operating instructions are not available, you must develop and follow standard operating procedures that ensure proper operation and maintenance of the cyclone.
