
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11619 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a prepared feeds manufacturing facility that uses a material containing chromium or a material containing manganese and is an area source of emissions of hazardous air pollutants (HAP).

(b) The provisions of this subpart apply to each new and existing prepared feeds manufacturing affected source. A prepared feeds manufacturing affected source is the collection of all equipment and activities necessary to produce animal feed from the point in the process where a material containing chromium or a material containing manganese is added, to the point where the finished animal feed product leaves the facility. This includes, but is not limited to, areas where materials containing chromium and manganese are stored, areas where materials containing chromium and manganese are temporarily stored prior to addition to the feed at the mixer, mixing and grinding processes, pelleting and pellet cooling processes, packing and bagging processes, crumblers and screens, bulk loading operations, and all conveyors and other equipment that transfer the feed materials throughout the manufacturing facility.

(1) A prepared feeds manufacturing affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the facility on or before July 27, 2009.

(2) A prepared feeds manufacturing affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the facility after July 27, 2009.

(3) A collection of equipment and activities necessary to produce animal feed at a prepared feeds manufacturing facility becomes an affected source when you commence using a material containing chromium or a material containing manganese.

(c) An affected source is no longer subject to this subpart if the facility stops using materials containing chromium or manganese.

(d) This subpart does not apply to the facilities identified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Prepared feeds manufacturing facilities that do not add any materials containing chromium or manganese to any product manufactured at the facility.

(2) Research or laboratory facilities as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(e) You are exempt from the obligation to obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71, provided you are not otherwise required by law to obtain a permit under 40 CFR 70.3(a) or 40 CFR 71.3. Notwithstanding the previous sentence, you must continue to comply with the provisions of this subpart.
