
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11622 What are the monitoring requirements for new and existing sources?

(a) If you own or operate an affected source required by § 63.11621(d) to use a device at the loadout end of a bulk loader that reduces fugitive emissions from a bulk loading process, you must perform monthly inspections of each device to ensure it is in proper working condition. You must record the results of these inspections in accordance with § 63.11624(c)(4) of this subpart.

(b) If you own or operate an affected source required by § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, you must comply with the inspection and monitoring requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and either (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section, as applicable.

(1) You must perform quarterly inspections of the cyclone for corrosion, erosion, or any other damage that could result in air in-leakage, and record the results in accordance with § 63.11624(c).

(2) If you own or operate a new source, you must monitor inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage at least once per day when the pelleting process is in operation. You must also record the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage in accordance with § 63.11624(c)(4).

(3) If you own or operate an existing source, you must perform a weekly visual inspection of the operating cyclone to ensure it is operating consistent with good air pollution control practices.
