
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11624 What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
######## Annual compliance certification report.

(b)You must, by March 1 of each year, prepare an annual compliance certification report for the previous calendar year containing the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. You must submit the report if you had any instance described by paragraph (b)(3) or (b)(4) of this section.

(1) Your company's name and address.

(2) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart.

(3) If the source is not in compliance, include a description of deviations from the applicable requirements, the time periods during which the deviations occurred, and the corrective actions taken.

(4) If you own or operate a new source that is subject to § 63.11621(e), you must identify all instances when the daily inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage is outside the range that constitutes proper operation of the cyclone submitted as part of your Notification of Compliance Status. In these instances, include the time periods when this occurred and the corrective actions taken.

(5) If you own or operate an existing source that is subject to § 63.11621(f), you must identify all instances when the cyclone was not operating properly as determined in accordance with § 63.11621(f).

(6) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your average daily feed production level was 50 tpd or less, notification if your average daily feed production level for the previous year exceeded 50 tpd.

(7) If you own or operate an affected source that was subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, notification if your average daily feed production level for the previous year was 50 tpd or less and that you are no longer complying with § 63.11621(e) or (f).
