
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart DDDDDDD - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants for Area Sources: Prepared Feeds Manufacturing
###### Standards, Monitoring, and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11624 What are the notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?
######## Notification of Compliance Status.

(2)If you are the owner of an existing affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status in accordance with § 63.9(h) of the General Provisions on or before May 4, 2012. If you are the owner or operator of a new affected source, you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of initial startup, or by October 18, 2010, whichever is later. If you own or operate an affected source that becomes an affected source in accordance with § 63.11619(b)(3) after the applicable compliance date in § 63.11620 (a) or (b), you must submit a Notification of Compliance Status within 120 days of the date that you commence using materials containing manganese or chromium. This Notification of Compliance Status must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Your company's name and address;

(ii) A statement by a responsible official with that official's name, title, phone number, e-mail address and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy, and completeness of the notification and a statement of whether the source has complied with all the relevant standards and other requirements of this subpart;

(iii) If you own or operate a new source required by § 63.11621(e) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, the inlet flow rate, inlet velocity, pressure drop, or fan amperage range than constitutes proper operation of the cyclone determined in accordance with § 63.11621(e)(2).

(iv) If you own or operate an existing source required by § 63.11621(f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations, documentation of what constitutes proper operation of the cyclone determined in accordance with § 63.11621(f).

(v) If you own or operate an affected source that is not subject to a requirement in § 63.11621(e) or (f) to install and operate a cyclone to control emissions from pelleting operations because your initial average daily feed production level was 50 tpd or less, documentation of your initial daily pelleting production level determination.
