
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Applicability and Compliance Dates
####### ยง 63.11640 Am I subject to this subpart?

(a) You are subject to this subpart if you own or operate a gold mine ore processing and production facility as defined in ยง 63.11651, that is an area source.

(b) This subpart applies to each new or existing affected source. The affected sources are each collection of "ore pretreatment processes" at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, each collection of "carbon processes with mercury retorts" at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, each collection of "carbon processes without mercury retorts" at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, and each collection of "non-carbon concentrate processes" at a gold mine ore processing and production facility, as defined in ยง 63.11651.

(1) An affected source is existing if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source on or before April 28, 2010.

(2) An affected source is new if you commenced construction or reconstruction of the affected source after April 28, 2010.

(c) This subpart does not apply to research and development facilities, as defined in section 112(c)(7) of the Clean Air Act (CAA).

(d) If you own or operate a source subject to this subpart, you must have or you must obtain a permit under 40 CFR part 70 or 40 CFR part 71.
