
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11646 What are my compliance requirements?
######## i.e.,

(6) For the initial compliance determination for both new and existing sources, determine the total mercury emissions for all the full calendar months between the compliance date and the date of the initial compliance test by multiplying the emission rate in lb/hr for each process unit (or combination of units ducted to a common stack that are tested together) by the number of one-hour periods each process unit (or the unit that had the greatest total operating hours among the combination of multiple units with one stack that are tested together, or an alternative method approved by the permit authority, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section) operated during those full calendar months prior to the initial compliance test. This initial period must include at least 1 full month of operations. After the initial compliance test, for subsequent compliance tests, determine the mercury mass emissions for the 12 full calendar months prior to the compliance test in accordance with the procedures in paragraph (a)(7) of this section. Existing sources may use a previous emission test for their initial compliance determination in lieu of conducting a new test if the test was conducted within one year of the compliance date using the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section, and the tests were representative of current operating processes and conditions. If a previous test is used for their initial compliance determination, 3 to 12 full months of data on hours of operation and production (million tons of ore or tons of concentrate), including the month the test was conducted, must be used to calculate the emissions rate (in units of pounds of mercury per million tons of ore for the ore pretreatment affected sources, or in units of pounds of mercury per tons of concentrate for the other affected sources).

(7) For compliance determinations following the initial compliance test for new and existing sources, determine the total mercury mass emissions for each process unit for the 12 full calendar months preceding the performance test by multiplying the emission rate in lb/hr for each process unit (or combination of units ducted to a common stack that are tested together) by the number of one-hour periods each process unit (or the unit that had the greatest total operating hours among the combination of multiple units with one stack that are tested together, or an alternative method approved by the permit authority, pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section) operated during the 12 full calendar months preceding the completion of the performance tests.

(8) You must install, calibrate, maintain and operate an appropriate weight measurement device, mass flow meter, or densitometer and volumetric flow meter to measure ore throughput for each roasting operation and autoclave and calculate hourly, daily and monthly totals in tons of ore according to paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (a)(8)(ii) of this section.

(i) Measure the weight or the density and volumetric flow rate of the oxidized ore slurry as it exits the roaster oxidation circuit(s) and before the carbon-in-leach tanks. Alternatively, the weight of the ore can be measured "as fed" if approved by the permit authority as an acceptable equivalent method to measure amount of ore processed.

(ii) Measure the weight or the density and volumetric flow rate of the ore slurry as it is fed to the autoclave(s). Alternatively, the weight or the density and volumetric flow rate of the oxidized ore slurry can be measured as it exits the autoclave and before the carbon-in-leach tanks if approved by the permit authority as an acceptable equivalent method to measure amount of ore processed.

(9) Measure the weight of concentrate (produced by electrowinning, Merrill Crowe process, gravity feed, or other methods) using weigh scales for each batch prior to processing in mercury retorts or melt furnaces. For facilities with mercury retorts, the concentrate must be weighed in the same state and condition as it is when fed to the mercury retort. For facilities without mercury retorts, the concentrate must be weighed prior to being fed to the melt furnace before drying in any ovens. For facilities that ship concentrate offsite, measure the weight of concentrate as shipped offsite. You must keep accurate records of the weights of each batch of concentrate processed and calculate, and record the total weight of concentrate processed each month.

(10) You must maintain the systems for measuring density, volumetric flow rate, and weight within +/-5 percent accuracy. You must describe the specific equipment used to make measurements at your facility and how that equipment is periodically calibrated. You must also explain, document, and maintain written procedures for determining the accuracy of the measurements and make these written procedures available to your permitting authority upon request. You must determine, record, and maintain a record of the accuracy of the measuring systems before the beginning of your initial compliance test and during each subsequent quarter of affected source operation.

(11) Record the weight in tons of ore for ore pretreatment processes and concentrate for carbon processes with mercury retorts, carbon processes without mercury retorts, and for non-carbon concentrate processes on a daily and monthly basis.

(12) Calculate the emissions from each new and existing affected source for the sum of all full months between the compliance date and the date of the initial compliance test in pounds of mercury per ton of process input using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(12)(i) through (a)(12)(iv) of this section to determine initial compliance with the emission standards in ยง 63.11645. This must include at least 1 full month of data. Or, if a previous test is used pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section for the initial compliance test, use a period of time pursuant to paragraph (a)(6) of this section to calculate the emissions for the affected source. After this initial compliance test period, determine annual compliance using the procedures in paragraph (a)(13) of this section for existing sources.
