
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11646 What are my compliance requirements?

(a) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, you must conduct a mercury compliance emission test within 180 days of the compliance date for all process units at new and existing affected sources according to the requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(13) of this section. This compliance testing must be repeated annually thereafter, with no two consecutive annual compliance tests occurring less than 3 months apart or more than 15 months apart.

(1) You must determine the concentration of mercury and the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas according to the following test methods and procedures:

(i) Method 1 or 1A (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1) to select sampling port locations and the number of traverse points in each stack or duct. Sampling sites must be located at the outlet of the control device (or at the outlet of the emissions source if no control device is present) and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(ii) Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, 2F (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1), or Method 2G (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the volumetric flow rate of the stack gas.

(iii) Method 3, 3A, or 3B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2) to determine the dry molecular weight of the stack gas. You may use ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10, "Flue and Exhaust Gas Analyses" (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) as an alternative to EPA Method 3B.

(iv) Method 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3) to determine the moisture content of the stack gas.

(v) Method 29 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) to determine the concentration of mercury, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section.

(vi) Upon approval by the permitting authority, ASTM D6784; "Standard Test Method for Elemental, Oxidized, Particle-Bound and Total Mercury in Flue Gas Generated from Coal-Fired Stationary Sources (Ontario Hydro Method)" (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) may be used as an alternative to Method 29 to determine the concentration of mercury.

(vii) Upon approval by the permitting authority, Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) may be used as an alternative to Method 29 to determine the concentration of mercury for those process units with relatively low particulate-bound mercury as specified in Section 1.2 of Method 30B.
