
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11645 What are my mercury emission standards?

(a) For existing ore pretreatment processes, you must emit no more than 127 pounds of mercury per million tons of ore processed.

(b) For existing carbon processes with mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 2.2 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.

(c) For existing carbon processes without mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 0.17 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.

(d) For existing non-carbon concentrate processes, you must emit no more than 0.2 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.

(e) For new ore pretreatment processes, you must emit no more than 84 pounds of mercury per million tons of ore processed.

(f) For new carbon processes with mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 0.8 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.

(g) For new carbon processes without mercury retorts, you must emit no more than 0.14 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.

(h) For new non-carbon concentrate processes, you must emit no more than 0.1 pounds of mercury per ton of concentrate processed.

(i) The standards set forth in this section apply at all times.
