
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11646 What are my compliance requirements?
######## e.g.,

(3) Performance tests shall be conducted under such conditions as the Administrator specifies to the owner or operator based on representative performance of the affected source for the period being tested. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests. Performance tests must be conducted under operating conditions (including process or production throughputs) that are based on representative performance. Record and report to the permit authority the process throughput for each test run. For sources with multiple emission units (two roasters, or a furnace, electrowinning circuit and a mercury retort) ducted to a common control device and stack, compliance testing must be performed either by conducting a single compliance test with all affected emissions units in operation or by conducting a separate compliance test on each emissions unit. Alternatively, the owner or operator may request approval from the permit authority for an alternative testing approach. If the units are tested separately, any emissions unit that is not tested initially must be tested as soon as is practicable. If the performance test is conducted when all affected units are operating, then the number of hours of operation used for calculating emissions pursuant to paragraphs (a)(6) and (7) of this section must be the total number of hours for the unit that has the greatest total operating hours for that period of time, or based on an appropriate alternative method approved by the permit authority to account for the hours of operation for each separate unit in these calculations.

(4) Calculate the mercury emission rate (lb/hr), based on the average of 3 test run values, for each process unit (or combination of units that are ducted to a common stack and are tested when all affected sources are operating pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section) using Equation (1) of this section:

(5) Monitor and record the number of one-hour periods each process unit operates during each month.
