
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11648 What are my notification, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements?

(a) You must submit the Initial Notification required by § 63.9(b)(2) no later than 120 calendar days after the date of publication of the final rule in theor within 120 days after the source becomes subject to the standard. The Initial Notification must include the information specified in § 63.9(b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv).

(b) You must submit an initial Notification of Compliance Status as required by § 63.9(h).

(c) If a deviation occurs during a semiannual reporting period, you must submit a deviation report to your permitting authority according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The first reporting period covers the period beginning on the compliance date specified in § 63.11641 and ending on June 30 or December 31, whichever date comes first after your compliance date. Each subsequent reporting period covers the semiannual period from January 1 through June 30 or from July 1 through December 31. Your deviation report must be postmarked or delivered no later than July 31 or January 31, whichever date comes first after the end of the semiannual reporting period.

(2) A deviation report must include the information in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) Company name and address.

(ii) Statement by a responsible official, with the official's name, title, and signature, certifying the truth, accuracy and completeness of the content of the report.

(iii) Date of the report and beginning and ending dates of the reporting period.

(iv) Identification of the affected source, the pollutant being monitored, applicable requirement, description of deviation, and corrective action taken.

(d) If you had a malfunction during the reporting period, the compliance report required in § 63.11648(b) must include the number, duration, and a brief description for each type of malfunction which occurred during the reporting period and which caused or may have caused any applicable emission limitation to be exceeded. The report must also include a description of actions taken by an owner or operator during a malfunction of an affected source to minimize emissions in accordance with § 63.11646(b), including actions taken to correct a malfunction.

(e) You must keep the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section. The form and maintenance of records must be consistent with the requirements in section 63.10(b)(1) of the General Provisions.

(1) As required in § 63.10(b)(2)(xiv), you must keep a copy of each notification that you submitted to comply with this subpart and all documentation supporting any Initial Notification, Notification of Compliance Status, and semiannual compliance certifications that you submitted.

(2) You must keep the records of all performance tests, measurements, monitoring data, and corrective actions required by §§ 63.11646 and 63.11647, and the information identified in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(vi) of this section for each corrective action required by § 63.11647.

(i) The date, place, and time of the monitoring event requiring corrective action;

(ii) Technique or method used for monitoring;

(iv) Operating conditions during the activity;

(v) Results, including the date, time, and duration of the period from the time the monitoring indicated a problem to the time that monitoring indicated proper operation; and

(vi) Maintenance or corrective action taken (if applicable).

(3) You must keep records of operating hours for each process as required by § 63.11646(a)(5) and records of the monthly quantity of ore and concentrate processed or produced as required by § 63.11646(a)(10).

(f) Your records must be in a form suitable and readily available for expeditious review, according to § 63.10(b)(1). As specified in § 63.10(b)(1), you must keep each record for 5 years following the date of each recorded action. You must keep each record onsite for at least 2 years after the date of each recorded action according to § 63.10(b)(1). You may keep the records offsite for the remaining 3 years.

(g) After December 31, 2011, within 60 days after the date of completing each performance evaluation conducted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart, the owner or operator of the affected facility must submit the test data to EPA by entering the data electronically into EPA's WebFIRE data base through EPA's Central Data Exchange. The owner or operator of an affected facility shall enter the test data into EPA's data base using the Electronic Reporting Tool or other compatible electronic spreadsheet. Only performance evaluation data collected using methods compatible with ERT are subject to this requirement to be submitted electronically into EPA's WebFIRE database.
