
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart EEEEEEE - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants: Gold Mine Ore Processing and Production Area Source Category
###### Standards and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11647 What are my monitoring requirements?
######## i.e.,,etc.

(g) You must monitor gas stream temperature at the inlet to the carbon adsorber for each process unit (carbon kiln, melt furnace,) equipped with a carbon adsorber. Establish a maximum value for the inlet temperature either during the annual performance test (required in ยง 63.11646(a)), according to the manufacturer's specifications, or as approved by your permitting authority. If you choose to establish the temperature operating limit during the performance test, establish the temperature operating limit based on either the highest reading during the test or at 10 &#xB0;F higher than the average temperature measured during the performance test. Monitor the inlet temperature once per shift. If an inlet temperature exceeds the temperature operating limit, you must take corrective actions to get the temperature back within the parameter operating limit within 48 hours. If the exceedance persists, within 144 hours of the exceedance, you must sample and analyze the exhaust stream from the carbon adsorber using Method 30B (40 CFR part 60, appendix A-8) and compare to an operating limit (calculated pursuant to (f)(1)(i)) or you must conduct carbon sampling pursuant to (f)(2) of this section. If the concentration measured with Method 30B is below 90 percent of the operating limit or the carbon sampling results are below 90 percent of the carbon loading capacity, you may set a new temperature operating limit 10 &#xB0;F above the previous operating limit or at an alternative level approved by your permit authority. If the concentration is above 90 percent of the operating limit or above 90 percent of the carbon loading capacity you must change the carbon in the bed within 30 days and report the event to your permitting authority, and reestablish an appropriate maximum temperature limit based on approval of your permit authority.

(h) For each wet scrubber at each new and existing affected source not followed by a mercury control system, you must monitor the water flow rate (or line pressure) and pressure drop. Establish a minimum value as the operating limit for water flow rate (or line pressure) and pressure drop either during the performance test required in ยง 63.11646(a), according to the manufacturer's specifications, or as approved by your permitting authority. If you choose to establish the operating limit based on the results of the performance test, the new operating limit must be established based on either the lowest value during any test run or 10 percent less than the average value measured during the test. For wet scrubbers on an autoclave, establish the pressure drop range according to manufacturer's specifications. You must monitor the water flow rate and pressure drop once per shift and take corrective action within 24 hours if any daily average is less than the operating limit. If the parameters are not in range within 72 hours, the owner or operator must report the deviation to the permitting authority and perform a compliance test for the process unit(s) controlled with the wet scrubber that has the parameter exceedance within 40 days to determine if the affected source is in compliance with the MACT limit. For the other process units included in the affected source, the owner or operator can use the results of the previous compliance test to determine the emissions for those process units to be used in the calculations of the emissions for the affected source.

(i) You may conduct additional compliance tests according to the procedures in ยง 63.11646 and re-establish the operating limits required in paragraphs (a) through (c) and (f) through (h) of this section at any time. You must submit a request to your permitting authority for approval to re-establish the operating limits. In the request, you must demonstrate that the proposed change to the operating limit detects changes in levels of mercury emission control. An approved change to the operating limit under this paragraph only applies until a new operating limit is established during the next annual compliance test.
