
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11925 What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for process vents?
######## Emission profile.

(g)You must characterize each process vent by developing an emissions profile for each contributing continuous process vent, miscellaneous vent and batch process vent according to paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For batch process vents, the emissions profile must:

(i) Describe the characteristics of the batch process vent under worst-case conditions.

(ii) Determine emissions per episode and batch process vent emissions according to the procedures specified in ยง 63.11950.

(2) For continuous process vents, the flow rate and concentration must be determined according to paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iii) or according to paragraph (g)(2)(iv):

(i)(A) Method 1 or 1A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate, shall be used for selection of the sampling site. The sampling site shall be after the last recovery device (if any recovery devices are present) but prior to being combined with any other continuous process vent, batch process vent, or miscellaneous vent, prior to the inlet of any control device that is present and prior to release to the atmosphere.

(B) No traverse site selection method is needed for vents smaller than 0.10 meter in diameter.

(ii) The gas volumetric flow rate shall be determined using Method 2, 2A, 2C or 2D of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, as appropriate.

(iii) (A) Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 or Method 25A of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 shall be used to measure concentration; alternatively, any other method or data that has been validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of this part may be used.

(B) Where Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6 is used, the following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration:
