
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11940 What continuous monitoring requirements must I meet for control devices required to install CPMS to meet the emission limits for process vents?
######## Absorber and acid gas scrubber monitoring.

(c)If you are using an absorber or acid gas scrubber to meet an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart and you are required to use CPMS as specified in ยง 63.11925(c), you must install the monitoring equipment specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Install and operate the monitoring equipment as specified in either paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) A flow meter to monitor the absorber or acid gas scrubber influent liquid flow.

(ii) A flow meter to monitor the absorber or acid gas scrubber influent liquid flow and the gas stream flow using one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii)(A), (B), or (C) of this section. You must monitor the liquid-to-gas ratio determined by dividing the flow rate of the absorber or acid gas scrubber influent by the gas flow rate. The units of measure must be consistent with those used to calculate this ratio during the performance test.

(A) Determine gas stream flow using the design blower capacity, with appropriate adjustments for pressure drop.

(B) Measure the gas stream flow at the absorber or acid gas scrubber inlet.

(C) If you have previously determined compliance for a scrubber that requires a determination of the liquid-to-gas ratio, you may use the results of that test provided the test conditions are representative of current operation.

(2) Install and operate the monitoring equipment as specified in either paragraph (c)(2)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section.

(i) Install and operate pressure gauges at the inlet and outlet of the absorber or acid gas scrubber to monitor the pressure drop through the absorber or acid gas scrubber.

(ii) If the difference in the inlet gas stream temperature and the inlet liquid stream temperature is greater than 38 degrees Celsius, you may install and operate a temperature monitoring device at the scrubber gas stream exit.

(iii) If the difference between the specific gravity of the scrubber effluent scrubbing fluid and specific gravity of the scrubber inlet scrubbing fluid is greater than or equal to 0.02 specific gravity units, you may install and operate a specific gravity monitoring device on the inlet and outlet of the scrubber.

(3) If the scrubbing liquid is a reactant (e.g., lime, ammonia hydroxide), you must install and operate one of the devices listed in either paragraph (c)(3)(i), (ii) or (iii) of this section.

(i) A pH monitoring device to monitor the pH of the scrubber liquid effluent.

(ii) A caustic strength monitoring device to monitor the caustic strength of the scrubber liquid effluent.

(iii) A conductivity monitoring device to monitor the conductivity of the scrubber liquid effluent.
