
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11945 What performance testing requirements must I meet for process vents?
######## Concentration correction calculation.

(d)If a combustion device is the control device and supplemental combustion air is used to combust the emissions, the concentration of total hydrocarbons, total organic HAP, vinyl chloride, and hydrogen chloride must be corrected as specified in paragraph (d)(1) or (2) of this section. If a control device other than a combustion device is used to comply with an outlet concentration emission limit for batch process vents, you must correct the actual concentration for supplemental gases as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(1) Determine the concentration of total hydrocarbons, total organic HAP, vinyl chloride, or hydrogen chloride corrected to 3-percent oxygen (Cc) using Equation 1 of this section.

(2) To determine the oxygen concentration, you must use the emission rate correction factor (or excess air), integrated sampling and analysis procedures of Method 3, 3A, or 3B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2, or ANSI/ASME PTC 19.10-1981 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 63.14).

(3) Correct the measured concentration for supplemental gases using Equation 2 of this section. Process knowledge and representative operating data may be used to determine the fraction of the total flow due to supplemental gas.
