
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### ยง 63.11945 What performance testing requirements must I meet for process vents?
######## Absolute worst-case conditions.

(1)For batch process operations, absolute worst-case conditions are defined by the criteria presented in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section if the maximum load is the most challenging condition for the control device. Otherwise, absolute worst-case conditions are defined by the conditions in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. You must consider all relevant factors, including load and compound-specific characteristics in defining absolute worst-case conditions.

(i) A 1-hour period of time in which the inlet to the control device contains the highest HAP mass loading rate, in pounds per hour, capable of being vented to the control device. An emission profile as described in ยง 63.11925(g) must be used to identify the 1-hour period of maximum HAP loading.

(ii) The period of time when the HAP loading or stream composition (including non-HAP) is most challenging for the control device. These conditions include, but are not limited to the following:

(A) Periods when the stream contains the highest combined organic load, in pounds per hour, described by the emission profiles in ยง 63.11925(g).

(B) Periods when the streams contain HAP constituents that approach limits of solubility for scrubbing media.

(C) Periods when the streams contain HAP constituents that approach limits of adsorptivity for adsorption systems.
