
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart M - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region X
###### Implementation Plan for the Nez Perce Tribe of Idaho
####### ยง 49.10406 Contents of implementation plan.

The implementation plan for the Nez Perce Reservation consists of the following rules, regulations, and measures:

(a) Section 49.123 General provisions.

(b) Section 49.124 Rule for limiting visible emissions.

(c) Section 49.125 Rule for limiting the emissions of particulate matter.

(d) Section 49.126 Rule for limiting fugitive particulate matter emissions.

(e) Section 49.127 Rule for woodwaste burners.

(f) Section 49.128 Rule for limiting particulate matter emissions from wood products industry sources.

(g) Section 49.129 Rule for limiting emissions of sulfur dioxides.

(h) Section 49.130 Rule for limiting sulfur in fuels.

(i) Section 49.131 General Rule for open burning.

(j) Section 49.132 Rule for general open burning permits.

(k) Section 49.133 Rule for agricultural burning permits.

(l) Section 49.134 Rule for forestry and silvicultural burning permits.

(m) Section 49.135 Rule for emissions detrimental to public health or welfare.

(n) Section 49.137 Rule for air pollution episodes.

(o) Section 49.138 Rule for the registration of air pollution sources and the reporting of emissions.

(p) Section 49.139 Rule for non-Title V operating permits.
