
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11955 What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for other emission sources?

(a) Before opening any process component (including pre-polymerization reactors used in the manufacture of bulk resins) for any reason, the quantity of vinyl chloride must be reduced to an amount that occupies a volume of no more than 2.0 percent of the component's or equipment's containment volume, or 25 gallons, whichever is larger, at standard temperature and pressure.

(b) Before opening a polymerization reactor for any reason, the quantity of vinyl chloride is not to exceed 0.04 pounds per ton of PVC product, with the product determined on a dry solids basis.

(c) Any gas or vapor HAP removed from a process component in accordance with paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section must be vented to a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950.

(d) Each gasholder in vinyl chloride service must meet the requirements of paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Each gasholder must be vented to a closed vent system and control device meeting the requirements of §§ 63.11925 through 63.11950.

(2) Each gasholder must operate with one or more of the following installed on the water seal to reduce emissions:

(i) Floating balls;

(ii) Hollow floating disks;

(iii) Oil layer; and/or

(iv) Floating mats.

(3) Each gasholder must have established operating procedures that include provisions for ensuring that the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section are met at all times except during periods of maintenance or repair. The standard operating procedures must be developed and implemented and made available to the Administrator upon request.
