
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11960 What are my initial and continuous compliance requirements for stripped resin?
######## Test methods and procedures for determining concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP.

(e)You must determine the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(1) For measuring total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP, you must use the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) SW-846-8260B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of volatile organic compounds listed in Table 10 of this subpart.

(ii) SW-846-8270D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of semivolatile organic compounds listed in table 10 of this subpart.

(iii) SW-846-8315A (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of aldehyde compounds listed in table 10 of this subpart.

(iv) SW-846-8015C (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of alcohol compounds listed in table 10 of this subpart.

(2) For measuring vinyl chloride, you must use Method 107 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix B.

(3) When using the methods specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section, for sample collection, preservation, transport, and analysis, you must minimize loss of HAP and maintain sample integrity.
