
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11980 What are the test methods and calculation procedures for process wastewater?
######## Performance test methods and procedures.

(a)You must determine the concentration of vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP using the test methods and procedures specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section. Upon request, the owner or operator shall make available to the Administrator such records as may be necessary to determine the conditions of performance tests.

(1) You must conduct performance tests during worst-case operating conditions for the PVCPU when the process wastewater treatment process is operating as close as possible to maximum operating conditions. If the wastewater treatment process will be operating at several different sets of operating conditions, you must supplement the testing with additional testing, modeling or engineering assessments to demonstrate compliance with the emission limits.

(2) For measuring total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP, you must conduct sampling and analysis using the methods specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) SW-846-8260B (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of volatile organic compounds listed in Table 10 of this subpart.

(ii) SW-846-8270D (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of semivolatile organic compounds.

(iii) SW-846-8315A (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of aldehyde compounds.

(iv) SW-846-8015C (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) for analysis of alcohol compounds.

(3) For measuring vinyl chloride, you must use Method 107 at 40 CFR part 61, appendix B.

(4) When using the methods in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, you must meet the requirements in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Sample collection may consist of grab or composite samples.

(ii) Samples must be taken before the process wastewater stream is exposed to the atmosphere.

(iii) You must ensure that sample collection, preservation, transport, and analysis minimizes loss of HAP and maintains sample integrity.

(b) Method for calculating total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration. For each process wastewater stream analyzed using the methods specified in paragraph (a) of this section, calculate the sum of the measured concentrations of each HAP analyzed as required in § 63.11965(f)(1) by using Equation 1 to this section.
