
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Notifications, Reports and Records
####### § 63.11985 What notifications and reports must I submit and when?
######## Notification of compliance status.

(a)When submitting the notification of compliance status required in § 63.9(h), you must also include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (9) of this section, as applicable.

(1) You must include an identification of the storage vessels subject to this subpart, including the capacity and liquid stored for each vessel. You must submit the information specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for each pressure vessel.

(2) You must include the information specified in § 63.1039(a) for equipment leaks.

(3) You must include an identification of the heat exchange systems that are subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(4) You must include the operating limit for each monitoring parameter identified for each control device used to meet the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, as determined pursuant to § 63.11935(d). This report must include the information in § 63.11935(d)(2), as applicable.

(5) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, for process vents.

(i) You must include the performance test records specified in § 63.11990(f)(1), as applicable. These reports must include one complete test report for each test method used for each process vent. A complete test report must include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations and any other information required by the test method. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in applicable sections of this subpart must be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(ii) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (a)(5)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section for batch process vent operations.

(A) Descriptions of worst-case operating and/or testing conditions for control devices including results of emissions profiles.

(B) Calculations used to demonstrate initial compliance according to §§ 63.11945 and 63.11950, including documentation of the proper operation of a process condenser(s) as specified in § 63.11950(c)(2)(ii).

(C) Data and rationale used to support an engineering assessment to calculate emissions in accordance with § 63.11950(i).

(iii) If you use a control device other than those listed in § 63.11940 for your process vent, then you must include a description of the parameters to be monitored to ensure the control device is operated in conformance with its design and achieves the specified emission limitation; an explanation of the criteria used to select the parameter; and a description of the methods and procedures that will be used to demonstrate that the parameter indicates proper operation of the control device, the schedule for this demonstration, and a statement that you will establish an operating limit for the monitored parameter as specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (a)(7)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, for resin strippers.

(i) You must include an identification of each resin stripper and resin type subject to the requirements of this subpart.

(ii) You must include results of the initial testing used to determine initial compliance with the stripped resin limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.

(8) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (a)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section, as applicable, for process wastewater.

(i) You must include an identification of each process wastewater stream subject to the requirements of this subpart, and the results of your determination for each stream as to whether it must be treated to meet the limits of Table 1 or 2 to this subpart. You must also include a description of the treatment process to be used for each process wastewater stream that requires treatment.

(ii) You must include results of the initial sampling used to determine initial compliance with the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart.

(9) You must include a certification of compliance, signed by a responsible official, as applicable that states the following:

(i) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for storage vessels."

(ii) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for equipment leaks."

(iii) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for heat exchange systems."

(iv) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for HAP emissions from process vents."

(v) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for other emission sources."

(vi) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for the stripped resin."

(vii) "This facility complies with the requirements in this subpart for wastewater."
