
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Testing and Compliance Requirements
####### § 63.11975 What are my continuous compliance requirements for process wastewater?

(a) For each process wastewater stream that must be treated to reduce the concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP as specified in § 63.11965(b) and (c), you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraph (b) of this section. For each process wastewater stream for which you initially determine in § 63.11970(b) that treatment is not required to reduce either vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration, you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(b) For each process wastewater stream that must be treated according to § 63.11965(b), you must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits for vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP specified in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart by following the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Following your demonstration of initial compliance in § 63.11970(a), make monthly measurements of the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations using the procedures and methods specified in § 63.11965(b)(1) and (2).

(2) You must demonstrate continuous compliance with the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart on a monthly basis, using the monthly concentration measurement specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) For each wastewater stream for which you initially determine in § 63.11970(b) that treatment is not required to reduce the vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration, you must demonstrate continuous compliance as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) Conduct annual performance tests, measuring the vinyl chloride and total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentrations using the procedures and methods specified in § 63.11965(b)(1) and (2).

(2) If any annual performance test conducted as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section results in a concentration of vinyl chloride or total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP in the process wastewater stream that is greater than or equal to the emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, then you must meet the requirements of § 63.11965(c) and you must demonstrate initial and continuous compliance as specified in § 63.11970 and this section.
