
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Notifications, Reports and Records
####### § 63.11985 What notifications and reports must I submit and when?
######## Compliance reports.

(b)When submitting the excess emissions and continuous monitoring system performance report and summary report required in § 63.10(e)(3), you must also include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (12) of this section, as applicable. This report is referred to in this subpart as your compliance report.

(1) You must include a copy of the inspection record specified in § 63.11990(b)(2) for each storage vessel when a defect, failure, or leak is detected. You must also include a copy of the applicable information specified in § 63.1039(b)(5) through (8) of subpart UU of this part for each pressure vessel.

(2) You must include the information specified in § 63.1039(b) for equipment leaks, except for releases from pressure relief devices. For any releases from pressure relief devices, you must submit the report specified in paragraph (c)(7) of this section instead of the information specified in § 63.1039(b)(4) of subpart UU of this part.

(3) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section for heat exchange systems.

(i) The number of heat exchange systems in HAP service.

(ii) The number of heat exchange systems in HAP service found to be leaking.

(iii) A summary of the monitoring data that indicate a leak, including the number of leaks determined to be equal to or greater than the leak definition.

(iv) If applicable, the date a leak was identified, the date the source of the leak was identified and the date of repair.

(v) If applicable, a summary of each delayed repair, including the original date and reason for the delay and the date of repair, if repaired during the reporting period.

(vi) If applicable, an estimate of total VOC or vinyl chloride emissions for each delayed repair over the reporting period.

(4) You must include the records specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section, as applicable, for process vents, resin strippers, and wastewater.

(i) Deviations using CEMS or CPMS. For each deviation from an emission limit or operating limit where a CEMS or CPMS is being used to comply with the process vent emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, you must include the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(i)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) For CEMS, the 3-hour block average value calculated for any period when the value is higher than an emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart or when the value does not meet the data availability requirements defined in § 63.11890(c).

(B) For CPMS, the average value calculated for any day (based on the data averaging periods for compliance specified in Table 5 to this subpart) that does not meet your operating limit established according to § 63.11935(d) or that does not meet the data availability requirements specified in § 63.11890(c).

(C) The cause for the calculated emission level or operating parameter level to not meet the established emission limit or operating limit.

(D) For deviations caused by lack of monitoring data, the duration of periods when monitoring data were not collected.

(E) Operating logs of batch process operations for each day during which the deviation occurred, including a description of the operating scenario(s) during the deviation.

(ii) New operating scenario. Include each new operating scenario that has been operated since the time period covered by the last compliance report and has not been submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report. For each new operating scenario, you must provide verification that the operating conditions for any associated control or treatment device have not been exceeded and constitute proper operation for the new operating scenario. You must provide any required calculations and engineering analyses that have been performed for the new operating scenario. For the purposes of this paragraph (b)(4)(ii), a revised operating scenario for an existing process is considered to be a new operating scenario when one or more of the data elements listed in § 63.11990(e)(4) have changed.

(iii) Process changes. You must document process changes, or changes made to any of the information submitted in the notification of compliance status report or a previous compliance report, that is not within the scope of an existing operating scenario, in the compliance report. The notification must include all of the information in paragraphs (b)(4)(iii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) A description of the process change.

(B) Revisions to any of the information reported in the original notification of compliance status report as provided in paragraph (a) of this section.

(C) Information required by the notification of compliance status report, as provided in paragraph (a) of this section, for changes involving the addition of processes, components, or equipment at the affected source.

(5) You must submit the applicable information specified in paragraphs (b)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section for process vents.

(i) For catalytic thermal oxidizers for which you have selected the alternative monitoring specified in § 63.11940(b)(3), results of the annual catalyst sampling and inspections required by § 63.11940(b)(3)(i) and (ii) including any subsequent corrective actions taken.

(ii) For regenerative adsorbers, results of the adsorber bed outlet volatile organic compounds concentration measurements specified in § 63.11940(d)(7).

(iii) For non-regenerative adsorbers, results of the adsorber bed outlet volatile organic compounds concentration measurements specified in § 63.11940(e)(2).

(6) You must include the records specified in § 63.11990(j) for other emission sources.

(7) For resin stripper operations, you must include results of daily vinyl chloride and monthly total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration results for each resin type produced within the PVCPU that did not meet the stripped resin emission limits in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart, as applicable.

(8) You must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section for your wastewater streams.

(i) Results of daily vinyl chloride and monthly total non-vinyl chloride organic HAP concentration results for each process wastewater stream discharged from the affected source that did not meet the process wastewater emission limits in Tables 1 or 2 to this subpart.

(ii) If you must comply with § 63.11965, then you must include any other applicable information that is required by the reporting requirements specified in § 63.146.

(9) For closed vent systems subject to the requirements of § 63.11930, you must include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(9)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.

(i) As applicable, records as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(i) for all times when flow was detected in the bypass line, the vent stream was diverted from the control device, or the flow indicator was not operating.

(ii) As applicable, records as specified in § 63.11930(g)(1)(ii) for all occurrences of all periods when a bypass of the system was indicated (the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken).

(iii) Records of all times when monitoring of the system was not performed as specified in § 63.11930(d) and (e), or repairs were not performed as specified in § 63.11930(f), or records were not kept as specified in § 63.11930(g)(2).

(iv) Records of each time an alarm on a closed vent system operating in vacuum service is triggered as specified in § 63.11930(h) including the cause for the alarm and the corrective action taken.

(10) Closed vent system in vacuum service, bypass deviation, or pressure vessel closure device deviation report. If any pressure vessel closure device or closed vent system that contains a bypass has directly discharged to the atmosphere, or any closed vent system that is designed to be in vacuum service and is operating and but not in vacuum service, as specified in § 63.11910(c)(4), § 63.11930(c) or § 63.11930(h), you must submit to the Administrator the following information:

(i) The source, nature and cause of the discharge.

(ii) The date, time and duration of the discharge.

(iii) An estimate of the quantity of vinyl chloride and total HAP emitted during the discharge and the method used for determining this quantity.

(iv) The actions taken to prevent this discharge.

(v) The measures adopted to prevent future such discharges
