
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Notifications, Reports and Records
####### § 63.11990 What records must I keep?
######## Process vent monitoring.

(e)You must include the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable, for process vent monitoring.

(1) Continuous records. Where this subpart requires a continuous record using CEMS or CPMS, you must maintain, at a minimum, the records specified in § 63.10(b)(2)(vii)(A).

(2) Excluded data. In any average computed to determine compliance, you must exclude monitoring data recorded during periods specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Periods of non-operation of the process unit (or portion thereof), resulting in cessation of the emissions to which the monitoring applies.

(ii) Periods of no flow to a control device.

(iii) Monitoring system malfunctions, repairs associated with monitoring system malfunctions or required monitoring system quality assurance or control activities, as specified in § 63.11890(c)(2).

(3) Records of calculated emission and operating parameter values. You must retain for 5 years, a record of CEMS and CPMS data as specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, unless an alternative recordkeeping system has been requested and approved.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section, retain for 5 years, the records of the average values for each continuously monitored operating parameter and pollutant specified in §§ 63.11925(e)(3)(ii) and 63.11925(e)(4)(ii)(B) for CEMS and CPMS.

(ii) In lieu of calculating and recording the average value specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) of this section, if all 1-hour averages specified in § 63.11935(e) demonstrate compliance with your parameter operating limit or the applicable pollutant emission limit in Table 1 or 2 to this subpart for the block average period, you may record a statement that all recorded 1-hour averages met the operating limit or emission limit, as applicable, and retain for 5 years this statement and all recorded CPMS or CEMS data for the block average period.

(4) Information to be included in records. You must keep records of each operating scenario as specified in paragraphs (e)(4)(i) through (viii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) You must keep a schedule or log of operating scenarios, updated each time a different operating scenario is put into effect.

(ii) A description of the process and the type of process components used.

(iii) An identification of related process vents including their associated emissions episodes.

(iv) The applicable control requirements of this subpart for process vents.

(v) The control device, including a description of operating and testing conditions.

(vi) Combined emissions that are routed to the same control device.

(vii) The applicable monitoring requirements of this subpart and any operating limit that assures compliance for all emissions routed to the control device.

(viii) Calculations and engineering analyses required to demonstrate compliance.
