
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Notifications, Reports and Records
####### ยง 63.11990 What records must I keep?
######## Heat exchange systems.

(d)For a heat exchange system subject to this subpart, you must keep the records specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) Identification of all heat exchangers at the facility and the measured or estimated average annual HAP concentration of process fluid or intervening cooling fluid processed in each heat exchanger.

(2) Identification of all heat exchange systems that are in HAP service. For each heat exchange system that is subject to this subpart, you must include identification of all heat exchangers within each heat exchange system, identification of the individual heat exchangers in HAP service within each heat exchange system, and for closed-loop recirculation systems, the cooling tower included in each heat exchange system.

(3) Identification of all heat exchange systems that are exempt from the monitoring requirements according to the provisions in ยง 63.11920(b) and the provision under which the heat exchange system is exempt.

(4) Results of the following monitoring data for each monitoring event:

(i) Date/time of event.

(ii) Heat exchange exit line flow or cooling tower return line flow at the sampling location, gallons/minute.

(iii) Monitoring method employed.

(iv) The measured cooling water concentration for each of target analyte (parts per billion by weight).

(v) Calibration and recovery information identified in the test method used.

(5) The date when a leak was identified and the date when the heat exchanger was repaired or taken out of service.

(6) If a repair is delayed, the reason for the delay, the schedule for completing the repair, and the estimate of potential emissions for the delay of repair.
