
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Notifications, Reports and Records
####### § 63.11990 What records must I keep?
######## Storage vessels.

(b)For storage vessels, you must maintain the records specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section.

(1) You must keep a record of the dimensions of the storage vessel, an analysis of the capacity of the storage vessel and an identification of the liquid stored.

(2) Inspection records for fixed roofs complying with § 63.11910 including the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Record the date of each inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3).

(ii) For each defect detected during an inspection required by § 63.11910(a)(3), record the location of the defect, a description of the defect, the date of detection and corrective action taken to repair the defect. In the event that repair of the defect is delayed in accordance with § 63.11910(a)(4)(ii), also record the reason for the delay and the date that completion of repair of the defect is expected.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) For pressure vessels, you must keep the records specified in paragraph (c) of this section for each pressure vessel.

(5) For internal and external floating roof storage vessels, you must maintain the records required in § 63.1065 of subpart WW of this part.

(6) For fixed roof storage vessels that route emissions through a closed vent system to a control device, during periods of planned routine maintenance of a control device, record the day and time at which planned routine maintenance periods begin and end, and the type of maintenance performed on the control device. If you need more than 240 hr/yr, keep a record that explains why additional time up to 360 hr/yr was needed and describes how you minimized the amount of additional time needed.
