
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Subpart HHHHHHH - National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions for Polyvinyl Chloride and Copolymers Production
###### Notifications, Reports and Records
####### § 63.11990 What records must I keep?
######## Process vents.

(f)You must include the records specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable, for process vents.

(1) Records of performance tests as required in § 63.10(b)(2)(viii). You must also collect the applicable control device operating parameters required in § 63.11940 over the full period of the performance test.

(2) If you use a control device to comply with this subpart and you are required to use CPMS, then you must keep up-to-date and readily accessible records for your process vents as specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section, as applicable.

(i) If you use a flow indicator, then you must keep records of periods of no flow to the control device, including the start and stop time and dates of periods of flow and no flow.

(ii) If you use a catalytic oxidizer for which you have selected the alternative monitoring specified in § 63.11940(b)(3), then you must also maintain records of the results of the annual catalyst sampling and inspections required by § 63.11940(b)(3)(i) and (ii) including any subsequent corrective actions taken.

(iii) If you use a regenerative adsorber as specified in § 63.11940(d), then the records specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iii)(A) through (H) of this section, as applicable, must be kept.

(A) Records of total regeneration stream mass flow for each adsorber-bed regeneration cycle.

(B) Records of the temperature of the adsorber bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.

(C) For non-vacuum and non-steam regeneration systems, records of the temperature of the adsorber bed during each regeneration except during any temperature regulating (cooling or warming to bring bed temperature closer to vent gas temperature) portion of the regeneration cycle.

(D) If adsorber regeneration vacuum is monitored pursuant to § 63.11940(d)(4), then you must keep records of the vacuum profile over time and the amount of time the vacuum level is below the minimum vacuum target for each adsorber-bed regeneration cycle.

(E) Records of the regeneration frequency and duration.

(F) Daily records of the verification inspections, including the visual observations and/or any activation of an automated alarm or shutdown system with a written entry into a log book or other permanent form of record.

(G) Records of the maximum volatile organic compound or HAP outlet concentration observed over the last 5 minutes of the adsorption cycle for each adsorber bed. Records must be weekly or for every regeneration cycle if the regeneration cycle is greater than 1 week.

(H) Records of the date and time the adsorbent had last been replaced.

(iv) If you use a non-regenerative adsorber as specified in § 63.11940(e), then the records specified in paragraphs (f)(2)(iv)(A) through (C) of this section, as applicable, must be kept.

(A) A record of the average life of the bed, as determined by § 63.11940(e)(1), including the date the average life was determined.

(B) Daily, weekly, or monthly records of the maximum volatile organic compound or HAP outlet concentration, as specified by § 63.11940(e)(2).

(C) Records of bed replacement including the date and time the adsorbent had last been replaced, and the date and time in which breakthrough is detected.
