
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

(5) A field certification checklist and inspection forms for each of the elements of the Method 303 inspection (charging, doors, lids and offtakes, and collecting mains).

(6) The criteria used to determine proficiency.

(7) The panel members to be utilized (see Section 10.1.3) along with their qualifications.

(8) An example certificate of successful course completion.

10.1.1 A trainee must verify completion of at least 12 hours of field observation prior to attending the Method 303 certification course. Trainees shall observe the operation of a coke oven battery as it pertains to Method 303, including topside operations, and shall also practice conducting Method 303 or similar methods. During the field observations, trainees unfamiliar with coke battery operations shall receive instruction from an experienced coke oven observer who is familiar with Method 303 or similar methods and with the operation of coke batteries.

10.1.2 The classroom instruction shall familiarize the trainees with Method 303 through lecture, written training materials, and a Method 303 demonstration video. Successful completion of the classroom portion of the Method 303 training course shall be demonstrated by a perfect score on the initial certification test. Those attending the course for third-year recertification must complete one of the recertification tests selected at random.

10.1.3 All trainees must demonstrate proficiency in the application of Method 303 to a panel of three certified Method 303 observers, including an ability to differentiate coke oven emissions from condensing water vapor and smoldering coal. The composition of the panel must be approved by the Administrator as part of the training course approval process. The panel members will be EPA, state or local agency personnel, or industry contractors listed in 59 FR 11960 (March 15, 1994) or qualified as part of the training provider approval process of section 10.1 of this method.
