
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Visible Emissions or VE

3.22means any emission seen by the unaided (except for corrective lenses) eye, excluding steam or condensing water.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Safety Training. Because coke oven batteries have hazardous environments, the training materials and the field training (section 10.0) shall cover the precautions required to address health and safety hazards.

Observer certification and training requirements are as follows:

10.1 Certification Procedures. This method requires only the determination of whether VE occur and does not require the determination of opacity levels; therefore, observer certification according to Method 9 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter is not required to obtain certification under this method. However, in order to receive Method 303 observer certification, the first-time observer (trainee) shall have attended the lecture portion of the Method 9 certification course. In addition, the trainee shall successfully complete the Method 303 training course, satisfy the field observation requirement, and demonstrate adequate performance and sufficient knowledge of Method 303. The Method 303 training provider and course shall be approved by the Administrator and shall consist of classroom instruction, field training, and a proficiency test. In order to apply for approval as a Method 303 training provider, an applicant must submit their credentials and the details of their Method 303 training course to Group Leader, Measurement Technology Group (E143-02), Office of Air Quality Planning and Standards, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711. Those details should include, at a minimum:

(a) A detailed list of the provider's credentials.

(b) An outline of the classroom and the field portions of the class.

(c) Copies of the written training and lecture materials, to include:

(1) The classroom audio-visual presentation(s).
