
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

11.1.5 Visual Interference. If fugitive VE from other sources at the coke oven battery site (door leaks or condensing water vapor from the coke oven wharf) prevent a clear view of the charging system during a charge, stop the stopwatch and make an appropriate notation under "Comments" on Figure 303-1. Label the observation an observation of an incomplete charge, and observe another charge to fulfill the requirements of Section 11.1.1.

11.1.6 VE Exemptions. Do not time the following VE:

11.1.6.1 The VE from burning or smoldering coal spilled on top of the oven, topside port lid, or larry car surfaces;

11.1.6.2 The VE from the coke oven doors or from the leveler bar; or

11.1.6.3 The VE that drift from the top of a larry car hopper if the emissions had already been timed as VE from the drop sleeve.

11.1.7 Total Time Record. Record the total time that VE were observed for each charging operation in the appropriate column on the charging system inspection sheet.

11.1.8 Determination of Validity of a Set of Observations. Five charging observations (runs) obtained in accordance with this method shall be considered a valid set of observations for that day. No observation of an incomplete charge shall be included in a daily set of observations that is lower than the lowest reading for a complete charge. If both complete and incomplete charges have been observed, the daily set of observations shall include the five highest values observed. Four or three charging observations (runs) obtained in accordance with this method shall be considered a valid set of charging observations only where it is not possible to obtain five charging observations, because visual interferences (see Section 11.1.5) or inclement weather prevent a clear view of the charging system during charging. However, observations from three or four charges that satisfy these requirements shall not be considered a valid set of charging observations if use of such set of observations in a calculation under Section 12.4 would cause the value of A to be less than 145.

11.1.9 Log Average. For each day on which a valid daily set of observations is obtained, calculate the daily 30-day rolling log average of seconds of visible emissions from the charging operation for each battery using these data and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations, in accordance with Section 12.4.

11.2. Procedure for Determining VE from Coke Oven Door Areas. The intent of this procedure is to determine VE from coke oven door areas by carefully observing the door area from a standard distance while walking at a normal pace.

11.2.1 Number of Runs. Refer to ยง 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the appropriate number of runs.

11.2.2 Battery Traverse. To conduct a battery traverse, walk the length of the battery on the outside of the pusher machine and quench car tracks at a steady, normal walking pace, pausing to make appropriate entries on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2). A single test run consists of two timed traverses, one for the coke side and one for the push side. The walking pace shall be such that the duration of the traverse does not exceed an average of 4 seconds per oven door, excluding time spent moving around stationary obstructions or waiting for other obstructions to move from positions blocking the view of a series of doors. Extra time is allowed for each leak (a maximum of 10 additional seconds for each leaking door) for the observer to make the proper notation. A walking pace of 3 seconds per oven door has been found to be typical. Record the actual traverse time with a stopwatch.

11.2.2.1 Include in the traverse time only the time spent observing the doors and recording door leaks. To measure actual traverse time, use an accumulative-type stopwatch with unit divisions of 0.5 seconds or less. Exclude interruptions to the traverse and time required for the observer to move to positions where the view of the battery is unobstructed, or for obstructions, such as the door machine, to move from positions blocking the view of a series of doors.

11.2.2.2 Various situations may arise that will prevent the observer from viewing a door or a series of doors. Prior to the door inspection, the owner or operator may elect to temporarily suspend charging operations for the duration of the inspection, so that all of the doors can be viewed by the observer. The observer has two options for dealing with obstructions to view: (a) Stop the stopwatch and wait for the equipment to move or the fugitive emissions to dissipate before completing the traverse; or (b) stop the stopwatch, skip the affected ovens, and move to an unobstructed position to continue the traverse. Restart the stopwatch and continue the traverse. After the completion of the traverse, if the equipment has moved or the fugitive emissions have dissipated, inspect the affected doors. If the equipment is still preventing the observer from viewing the doors, then the affected doors may be counted as not observed. If option (b) is used because of doors blocked by machines during charging operations, then, of the affected doors, exclude the door from the most recently charged oven from the inspection. Record the oven numbers and make an appropriate notation under "Comments" on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2).

11.2.2.3 When batteries have sheds to control emissions, conduct the inspection from outside the shed unless the doors cannot be adequately viewed. In this case, conduct the inspection from the bench. Be aware of special safety considerations pertinent to walking on the bench and follow the instructions of company personnel on the required equipment and procedures. If possible, conduct the bench traverse whenever the bench is clear of the door machine and hot coke guide.
