
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

11.2.3.2 During the traverse, look around the entire perimeter of each oven door. The door is considered leaking if VE are detected in the coke oven door area. The coke oven door area includes the entire area on the vertical face of a coke oven between the bench and the top of the battery between two adjacent buck stays (the oven door, chuck door, between the masonry brick, buck stay or jamb, or other sources). Record the oven number and make the appropriate notation on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303-2).

11.2.3.3 Do not record the following sources as door area VE:

11.2.3.3.1 VE from ovens with doors removed. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under "Comments;"

11.2.3.3.2 VE from ovens taken out of service. The owner or operator shall notify the observer as to which ovens are out of service. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under "Comments;" or

11.2.3.3.3 VE from hot coke that has been spilled on the bench as a result of pushing.

11.2.4 Criteria for Acceptance. After completing the run, calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the ovens using the equation in Section 12.2. If the total traverse time exceeds T, void the run, and conduct another run to satisfy the requirements of ยง 63.309(c)(1) of this part.

11.2.5 Percent Leaking Doors. For each day on which a valid observation is obtained, calculate the daily 30-day rolling average for each battery using these data and the 29 previous valid daily observations, in accordance with Section 12.5.

11.3 Procedure for Determining VE from Topside Port Lids and Offtake Systems.

11.3.1 Number of Runs. Refer to ยง 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the number of runs to be conducted. Simultaneous runs or separate runs for the topside port lids and offtake systems may be conducted.

11.3.2 Battery Traverse. To conduct a topside traverse of the battery, walk the length of the battery at a steady, normal walking pace, pausing only to make appropriate entries on the topside inspection sheet (Figure 303-3). The walking pace shall not exceed an average rate of 4 seconds per oven, excluding time spent moving around stationary obstructions or waiting for other obstructions to move from positions blocking the view. Extra time is allowed for each leak for the observer to make the proper notation. A walking pace of 3 seconds per oven is typical. Record the actual traverse time with a stopwatch.
