
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,,i.e.,

The panel shall observe the trainee in a series of training runs and a series of certification runs. There shall be a minimum of 1 training run for doors, topside port lids, and offtake systems, and a minimum of 5 training runs (5 charges) for charging. During training runs, the panel can advise the trainee on proper procedures. There shall be a minimum of 3 certification runs for doors, topside port lids, and offtake systems, and a minimum of 15 certification runs for charging (15 charges). The certification runs shall be unassisted. Following the certification test runs, the panel shall approve or disapprove certification based on the trainee's performance during the certification runs. To obtain certification, the trainee shall demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the panel, a high degree of proficiency in performing Method 303. To aid in evaluating the trainee's performance, a checklist, approved by the EPA, will be used by the panel members.

10.1.4 Those successfully completing the initial certification or third-year recertification requirements shall receive a certificate showing certification as a Method 303 observer and the beginning and ending dates of the certification period.

10.1.5 The training provider will submit to the EPA or its designee the following information for each trainee successfully completing initial certification or third-year recertification training: Name, employer, address, telephone, cell and/or fax numbers, email address, beginning and ending dates of certification, and whether training was for 3-year certification or 1-year recertification. This information must be submitted within 30 days of the course completion.

10.1.6 The training provider will maintain the following records, to be made available to EPA or its designee on request (within 30 days of a request):

(a) A file for each Method 303 observer containing the signed certification checklists, certification forms and test results for their initial certification, and any subsequent third-year recertifications. Initial certification records must also include documentation showing successful completion of the training prerequisites. Testing results from any interim recertifications must also be included, along with any relevant communications.

(b) A searchable master electronic database of all persons for whom initial certification, third-year recertification or interim recertification. Information contained therein must include: The observer's name, employer, address, telephone, cell and fax numbers and email address, along with the beginning and ending dates for each successfully completed initial, third-year and interim recertification.

10.1.7 Failure by the training provider to submit example training course materials and/or requested training records to the Administrator may result in suspension of the approval of the provider and course.

10.2 Observer Certification/Recertification. The coke oven observer certification is valid for 1 year. The observer shall recertify annually by reviewing the training material, viewing the training video and answering all of the questions on the recertification test correctly. Every 3 years, an observer shall be required to pass the proficiency test in section 10.1.3 in order to be certified. The years between proficiency tests are referred to as interim years.

10.3 The EPA (or applicable enforcement agency) shall maintain records reflecting a certified observer's successful completion of the proficiency test, which shall include the completed proficiency test checklists for the certification runs.

10.4 An owner or operator of a coke oven battery subject to subpart L of this part may observe a training and certification program under this section.

11.1 Procedure for Determining VE from Charging Systems During Charging.

11.1.1 Number of Oven Charges. Refer to ยง 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the number of oven charges to observe. The observer shall observe consecutive charges. Charges that are nonconsecutive can only be observed when necessary to replace observations terminated prior to the completion of a charge because of visual interferences. (See Section 11.1.5).

11.1.2 Data Records. Record all the information requested at the top of the charging system inspection sheet (Figure 303-1). For each charge, record the identification number of the oven being charged, the approximate beginning time of the charge, and the identification of the larry car used for the charge.

11.1.3 Observer Position. Stand in an area or move to positions on the topside of the coke oven battery with an unobstructed view of the entire charging system. For wet coal charging systems or non-pipeline coal charging systems, the observer should have an unobstructed view of the emission points of the charging system, including larry car hoppers, drop sleeves, and the topside ports of the oven being charged. Some charging systems are configured so that all emission points can only be seen from a distance of five ovens. For other batteries, distances of 8 to 12 ovens are adequate.

11.1.4 Observation. The charging period begins when coal begins to flow into the oven and ends when the last charging port is recapped. During the charging period, observe all of the potential sources of VE from the entire charging system. For wet coal charging systems or non-pipeline coal charging systems, sources of VE typically include the larry car hoppers, drop sleeves, slide gates, and topside ports on the oven being charged. Any VE from an open standpipe cap on the oven being charged is included as charging VE.

11.1.4.1 Using an accumulative-type stopwatch with unit divisions of at least 0.5 seconds, determine the total time VE are observed as follows. Upon observing any VE emerging from any part of the charging system, start the stopwatch. Stop the watch when VE are no longer observed emerging, and restart the watch when VE reemerges.

11.1.4.2 When VE occur simultaneously from several points during a charge, consider the sources as one. Time overlapping VE as continuous VE. Time single puffs of VE only for the time it takes for the puff to emerge from the charging system. Continue to time VE in this manner for the entire charging period. Record the accumulated time to the nearest 0.5 second under "Visible emissions, seconds" on Figure 303-1.
