
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

11.3.4.5 Do not count standpipe caps open for a decarbonization period or standpipes of an oven being charged as source of offtake system VE. Record the oven number and write "Not observed" and the reason (decarb or charging) under "Comments."

11.3.5 Criteria for Acceptance. After completing the run (allow 2 traverses for batteries with double mains), calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the topside port lids and/or offtake systems using the equation in Section 12.3. If the total traverse time exceeds T, void the run and conduct another run to satisfy the requirements of ยง 63.309(c)(1) of this part.

11.3.6 In determining the percent leaking topside port lids and percent leaking offtake systems, do not include topside port lids or offtake systems with VE from the following ovens:

11.3.6.1 Empty ovens, including ovens undergoing maintenance, which are properly dampered off from the main.

11.3.6.2 Ovens being charged or being pushed.

11.3.6.3 Up to 3 full ovens that have been dampered off from the main prior to pushing.

11.3.6.4 Up to 3 additional full ovens in the pushing sequence that have been dampered off from the main for offtake system cleaning, for decarbonization, for safety reasons, or when a charging/pushing schedule involves widely separated ovens (e.g., a Marquard system); or that have been dampered off from the main for maintenance near the end of the coking cycle. Examples of reasons that ovens are dampered off for safety reasons are to avoid exposing workers in areas with insufficient clearance between standpipes and the larry car, or in areas where workers could be exposed to flames or hot gases from open standpipes, and to avoid the potential for removing a door on an oven that is not dampered off from the main.

11.3.7 Percent Leaking Topside Port Lids and Offtake Systems. For each day on which a valid observation is obtained, calculate the daily 30-day rolling average for each battery using these data and the 29 previous valid daily observations, in accordance with Sections 12.6 and 12.7.

11.4 Procedure for Determining VE from Collecting Mains.

11.4.1 Traverse. To perform a test run, traverse both the collecting main catwalk and the battery topside along the side closest to the collecting main. If the battery has a double main, conduct two sets of traverses for each run, i.e., one set for each main.

11.4.2 Data Recording. Upon noting VE from any portion of a collection main, identify the source and approximate location of the source of VE and record the time under "Collecting main" on Figure 303-3; then resume the traverse.

11.4.3 Collecting Main Pressure Check. After the completion of the door traverse, the topside port lids, and offtake systems, compare the collecting main pressure during the inspection to the collecting main pressure during the previous 8 to 24 hours. Record the following: (a) the pressure during inspection, (b) presence of pressure deviation from normal operations, and (c) the explanation for any pressure deviation from normal operations, if any, offered by the operators. The owner or operator of the coke battery shall maintain the pressure recording equipment and conduct the quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) necessary to ensure reliable pressure readings and shall keep the QA/QC records for at least 6 months. The observer may periodically check the QA/QC records to determine their completeness. The owner or operator shall provide access to the records within 1 hour of an observer's request.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Criteria for Acceptance for VE Determinations from Coke Oven Door Areas. After completing the run, calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the ovens using the following equation:

12.3 Criteria for Acceptance for VE Determinations from Topside Port Lids and Offtake Systems. After completing the run (allow 2 traverses for batteries with double mains), calculate the maximum time allowed to observe the topside port lids and/or offtake systems by the following equation:

12.4 Average Duration of VE from Charging Operations. Use Equation 303-3 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling log average of seconds of visible emissions from the charging operation for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.

12.5 Percent Leaking Doors (PLD). Determine the total number of doors for which observations were made on the coke oven battery as follows:

12.5.1 For each test run (one run includes both the coke side and the push side traverses), sum the number of doors with door area VE. For batteries subject to an approved alternative standard under ยง 63.305 of this part, calculate the push side and the coke side PLD separately.

12.5.2 Calculate percent leaking doors by using Equation 303-5:

12.5.3 When traverses are conducted from the bench under sheds, calculate the coke side and the push side separately. Use Equation 303-6 to calculate a yard-equivalent reading:

12.5.3.1 Use Equation 303-7 to calculate PLD:

12.5.3.2 Average Percent Leaking Doors. Use Equation 303-8 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling average percent leaking doors for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.

12.6 Topside Port Lids. Determine the percent leaking topside port lids for each run as follows:

12.6.1 Round off this percentage to the nearest hundredth of 1 percent and record this percentage as the percent leaking topside port lids for the run.

12.6.2 Average Percent Leaking Topside Port Lids. Use Equation 303-10 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling average percent leaking topside port lids for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.

12.7 Offtake Systems. Determine the percent leaking offtake systems for the run as follows:

12.7.1 Round off this percentage to the nearest hundredth of 1 percent and record this percentage as the percent leaking offtake systems for the run.

12.7.2 Average Percent Leaking Offtake Systems. Use Equation 303-12 to calculate the daily 30-day rolling average percent leaking offtake systems for each battery using these current day's observations and the 29 previous valid daily sets of observations.

1. Missan, R., and A. Stein. Guidelines for Evaluation of Visible Emissions Certification, Field Procedures, Legal Aspects, and Background Material. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. EPA Publication No. EPA-340/1-75-007. April 1975.

2. Wohlschlegel, P., and D. E. Wagoner. Guideline for Development of a Quality Assurance Program: Volume IX-Visual Determination of Opacity Emission from Stationary Sources. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. EPA Publication No. EPA-650/4-74-005i. November 1975.

3. U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Code of Federal Regulations. Title 29, Chapter XVII, Section 1910.1029(g). Washington, D.C. Government Printing Office. July 1, 1990.

4. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants; Coke Oven Emissions from Wet-Coal Charged By-Product Coke Oven Batteries; Proposed Rule and Notice of Public Hearing. Washington, D.C.Vol. 52, No. 78 (13586). April 23, 1987.

1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of visible emissions (VE) from leaking doors at nonrecovery coke oven batteries.

2.1 A certified observer visually determines the VE from coke oven battery sources while walking at a normal pace. This method does not require that opacity of emissions be determined or that magnitude be differentiated.
