
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

11.3.3 Topside Port Lid Observations. To observe lids of the ovens involved in the charging operation, the observer shall wait to view the lids until approximately 5 minutes after the completion of the charge. Record all the information requested on the topside inspection sheet (Figure 303-3). Record the clock time when traverses begin and end. If the observer's view is obstructed during the traverse (steam from the coke wharf, larry car, etc.), follow the guidelines given in Section 11.2.2.2.

11.3.3.1 To perform a test run, conduct a single traverse on the topside of the battery. The observer shall walk near the center of the battery but may deviate from this path to avoid safety hazards (such as open or closed charging ports, luting buckets, lid removal bars, and topside port lids that have been removed) and any other obstacles. Upon noting VE from the topside port lid(s) of an oven, record the oven number and port number, then resume the traverse. If any oven is dampered-off from the collecting main for decarbonization, note this under "Comments" for that particular oven.

11.3.3.2 Do not count the following as topside port lid VE:

11.3.3.2.1 VE from between the brickwork and oven lid casing or VE from cracks in the oven brickwork. Note these VE under "Comments;"
