
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Visible Emissions or VE

3.11means any emission seen by the unaided (except for corrective lenses) eye, excluding steam or condensing water.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Safety Training. Because coke oven batteries have hazardous environments, the training materials and the field training (Section 10.0) shall cover the precautions required by the company to address health and safety hazards. Special emphasis shall be given to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations pertaining to exposure of coke oven workers (see Reference 3 in Section 16.0). In general, the regulation requires that special fire-retardant clothing and respirators be worn in certain restricted areas of the coke oven battery. The OSHA regulation also prohibits certain activities, such as chewing gum, smoking, and eating in these areas.

10.1 Training. This method requires only the determination of whether VE occur and does not require the determination of opacity levels; therefore, observer certification according to Method 9 in Appendix A to Part 60 is not required. However, the first-time observer (trainee) shall have attended the lecture portion of the Method 9 certification course. Furthermore, before conducting any VE observations, an observer shall become familiar with nonrecovery coke oven battery operations and with this test method by observing for a minimum of 4 hours the operation of a nonrecovery coke oven battery in the presence of personnel experienced in performing Method 303 assessments.

The intent of this procedure is to determine VE from coke oven door areas by carefully observing the door area while walking at a normal pace.

11.1 Number of Runs. Refer to ยง 63.309(c)(1) of this part for the appropriate number of runs.

11.2 Battery Traverse. To conduct a battery traverse, walk the length of the battery on the outside of the pusher machine and quench car tracks at a steady, normal walking pace, pausing to make appropriate entries on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1). The walking pace shall be such that the duration of the traverse does not exceed an average of 4 seconds per oven door, excluding time spent moving around stationary obstructions or waiting for other obstructions to move from positions blocking the view of a series of doors. Extra time is allowed for each leak (a maximum of 10 additional seconds for each leaking door) for the observer to make the proper notation. A walking pace of 3 seconds per oven door has been found to be typical. Record the actual traverse time with a stopwatch. A single test run consists of two timed traverses, one for the coke side and one for the push side.

11.2.1 Various situations may arise that will prevent the observer from viewing a door or a series of doors. The observer has two options for dealing with obstructions to view: (a) Wait for the equipment to move or the fugitive emissions to dissipate before completing the traverse; or (b) skip the affected ovens and move to an unobstructed position to continue the traverse. Continue the traverse. After the completion of the traverse, if the equipment has moved or the fugitive emissions have dissipated, complete the traverse by inspecting the affected doors. Record the oven numbers and make an appropriate notation under "Comments" on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1).

11.2.2 When batteries have sheds to control pushing emissions, conduct the inspection from outside the shed, if the shed allows such observations, or from the bench. Be aware of special safety considerations pertinent to walking on the bench and follow the instructions of company personnel on the required equipment and operations procedures. If possible, conduct the bench traverse whenever the bench is clear of the door machine and hot coke guide.
