
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.43 Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution Prevention.
####### Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics.

(b)The Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), under the management of a Director and Deputy Director is responsible to the Assistant Administrator for those activities of the Agency mandated by TSCA, PPA, and portions of several other statutes. The Director is responsible for developing and operating Agency programs and policies for new and existing chemicals. In each of these areas, the Director is responsible for information collection and coordination; data development; health, environmental, and economic assessment; and negotiated or regulatory control actions. The Director provides operational guidance to EPA Regional Offices, reviews and evaluates toxic substances activities at EPA Headquarters and Regional Offices; coordinates TSCA activities with other EPA offices and Federal and State agencies, and conducts the export notification required by TSCA and provides information to importers. The Director is responsible for developing policies and procedures for the coordination and integration of Agency and Federal activities concerning toxic substances. The Director is also responsible for coordinating communication with the industrial community, environmental groups, and other interested parties on matters relating to the implementation of TSCA; providing technical support to international activities managed by the Office of International Activities; and managing the joint planning of toxic research and development under the auspices of the Pesticides/Toxic Substances Research Committee.
