
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

6.6.1 Dissolved Oxygen Monitor. Dissolved oxygen is monitored with a polarographic probe (gas permeable membrane) connected to a dissolved oxygen meter (0 to 15 mg/L, 0 to 50 &#xB0;C).

6.6.2 Benchtop Bioreactor Pressure Monitor. The benchtop bioreactor pressure is monitored through a port in the top flange of the reactor. This is connected to a gauge control with a span of 13-cm water vacuum to 13-cm water pressure or better. A relay is activated when the vacuum exceeds an adjustable setpoint which opens a solenoid valve (normally closed), admitting oxygen to the system. The vacuum setpoint controlling oxygen addition to the system shall be set at approximately 2.5 +/-0.5 cm water and maintained at this setting except during brief periods when the dissolved oxygen concentration is adjusted.

6.7 Connecting Tubing. All connecting tubing shall be Teflon or equivalent in impermeability. The only exception to this specification is the tubing directly inside the pump head of the wastewater feed pump, which may be Viton, Silicone or another type of flexible tubing.

7.1 Wastewater. Obtain a representative sample of wastewater at the inlet to the full-scale treatment plant if there is an existing full-scale treatment plant (see section 6.3). If there is no existing full-scale treatment plant, obtain the wastewater sample as close to the point of determination as possible. Collect the sample by pumping the wastewater into the 20-L collapsible container. The loss of volatiles shall be minimized from the wastewater by collapsing the container before filling, by minimizing the time of filling, and by avoiding a headspace in the container after filling. If the wastewater requires the addition of nutrients to support the biomass growth and maintain biomass characteristics, those nutrients are added and mixed with the container contents after the container is filled.
