
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

8.2.1 Frequency of Sampling. During the test, sample and analyze the wastewater feed and the clarifier effluent at least six times. The sampling intervals shall be separated by at least 8 hours. During any individual sampling interval, sample the wastewater feed simultaneously with or immediately after the effluent sample. Calculate the relative standard deviation (RSD) of the amount removed (effluent concentration-wastewater feed concentration). The RSD values shall be <15 percent. If an RSD value is >15 percent, continue sampling and analyzing influent and effluent sets of samples until the RSD values are within specifications.

8.2.2 Sampling After Exposure of System to Atmosphere. If, after starting sampling procedures, the benchtop bioreactor system is exposed to the atmosphere (due to leaks, maintenance, etc.), allow at least one hydraulic residence time to elapse before resuming sampling.

9.1 Dissolved Oxygen. Fluctuation in dissolved oxygen concentration may occur for numerous reasons, including undetected gas leaks, increases and decreases in mixed liquor suspended solids resulting from cell growth and solids loss in the effluent stream, changes in diffuser performance, cycling of effluent flow rate, and overcorrection due to faulty or sluggish dissolved oxygen probe response. Control the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor by changing the proportion of oxygen in the circulating aeration gas. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift below the designated experimental condition, bleed a small amount of aeration gas from the system on the pressure side (i.e., immediately upstream of one of the diffusers). This will create a vacuum in the system, triggering the pressure sensitive relay to open the solenoid valve and admit oxygen to the system. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift above the designated experimental condition, slow or stop the oxygen input to the system until the dissolved oxygen concentration approaches the correct level.

9.2 Sludge Wasting.

9.2.1 Determine the suspended solids concentration (section 8.1.4) at the beginning of a test, and once per day thereafter during the test. If the test is completed within a two day period, determine the suspended solids concentration after the final sample set is taken. If the suspended solids concentration exceeds the specified concentration, remove a fraction of the sludge from the benchtop bioreactor. The required volume of mixed liquor to remove is determined as follows:

9.2.2 Remove the mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor by loosening a clamp on the mixed liquor sampling tube and allowing the required volume to drain to a graduated flask. Clamp the tube when the correct volume has been wasted. Replace the volume of the liquid wasted by pouring the same volume of effluent back into the benchtop bioreactor. Dispose of the waste sludge properly.

9.3 Sludge Makeup. In the event that the suspended solids concentration is lower than the specifications, add makeup sludge back into the benchtop bioreactor. Determine the amount of sludge added by the following equation:

10.1 Wastewater Pump Calibration. Determine the wastewater flow rate by collecting the system effluent for a time period of at least one hour, and measuring the volume with a graduated cylinder. Record the collection time period and volume collected. Determine flow rate. Adjust the pump speed to deliver the specified flow rate.

10.2 Calibration Standards. Prepare calibration standards from pure certified standards in an aqueous medium. Prepare and analyze three concentrations of calibration standards for each target component (or for a mixture of components) in triplicate daily throughout the analyses of the test samples. At each concentration level, a single calibration shall be within 5 percent of the average of the three calibration results. The low and medium calibration standards shall bracket the expected concentration of the effluent (treated) wastewater. The medium and high standards shall bracket the expected influent concentration.

11.1 Analysis. If the identity of the compounds of interest in the wastewater is not known, a representative sample of the wastewater shall be analyzed in order to identify all of the compounds of interest present. A gas chromatography/mass spectrometry screening method is recommended.

11.1.1 After identifying the compounds of interest in the wastewater, develop and/or use one or more analytical techniques capable of measuring each of those compounds (more than one analytical technique may be required, depending on the characteristics of the wastewater). Test Method 18, found in appendix A of 40 CFR 60, may be used as a guideline in developing the analytical technique. Purge and trap techniques may be used for analysis providing the target components are sufficiently volatile to make this technique appropriate. The limit of quantitation for each compound shall be determined (see reference 1). If the effluent concentration of any target compound is below the limit of quantitation determined for that compound, the operation of the Method 304 unit may be altered to attempt to increase the effluent concentration above the limit of quantitation. Modifications to the method shall be approved prior to the test. The request should be addressed to Method 304 contact, Emissions Measurement Center, Mail Drop 19, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

12.1 Nomenclature. The following symbols are used in the calculations.

12.2 Residence Time. The hydraulic residence time of the benchtop bioreactor is equal to the ratio of the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (L) to the flow rate (L/h):

12.3 Rate of Biodegradation. Calculate the rate of biodegradation for each component with the following equation:

12.4 First-Order Biorate Constant. Calculate the first-order biorate constant (K1) for each component with the following equation:

12.5 Relative Standard Deviation (RSD). Determine the standard deviation of both the influent and effluent sample concentrations (S) using the following equation:

12.6 Determination of Percent Air Emissions and Percent Biodegraded. Use the results from this test method and follow the applicable procedures in appendix C of 40 CFR part 63, entitled, "Determination of the Fraction Biodegraded (F) in a Biological Treatment Unit" to determine F.

1. "Guidelines for data acquisition and data quality evaluation in Environmental Chemistry," Daniel MacDoughal, Analytical Chemistry, Volume 52, p. 2242, 1980.

2. Test Method 18, 40 CFR 60, appendix A.

3. Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 16th Edition, Method 209C, Total Suspended Solids Dried at 103-105 &#xB0;C, APHA, 1985.

4. Water7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)-Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.

5. Chemdat7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)-Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.

1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of biodegradation rates of organic compounds in an activated sludge process. The test method is designed to evaluate the ability of an aerobic biological reaction system to degrade or destroy specific components in waste streams. The method may also be used to determine the effects of changes in wastewater composition on operation. The biodegradation rates determined by utilizing this method are not representative of a full-scale system. Full-scale systems embody biodegradation and air emissions in competing reactions. This method measures biodegradation in absence of air emissions. The rates measured by this method shall be used in conjunction with the procedures listed in appendix C of this part to calculate the fraction emitted to the air versus the fraction biodegraded.

2.1 A self-contained benchtop bioreactor system is assembled in the laboratory. A sample of mixed liquor is added and the waste stream is then fed continuously. The benchtop bioreactor is operated under conditions nearly identical to the target full-scale activated sludge process, except that air emissions are not a factor. The benchtop bioreactor temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, average residence time in the reactor, waste composition, biomass concentration, and biomass composition of the target full-scale process are the parameters which are duplicated in the laboratory system. Biomass shall be removed from the target full-scale activated sludge unit and held for no more than 4 hours prior to use in the benchtop bioreactor. If antifoaming agents are used in the full-scale system, they shall also be used in the benchtop bioreactor. The feed flowing into and the effluent exiting the benchtop bioreactor are analyzed to determine the biodegradation rates of the target compounds. The choice of analytical methodology for measuring the compounds of interest at the inlet and outlet to the benchtop bioreactor are left to the discretion of the source, except where validated methods are available.

5.1 If explosive gases are produced as a byproduct of biodegradation and could realistically pose a hazard, closely monitor headspace concentration of these gases to ensure laboratory safety. Placement of the benchtop bioreactor system inside a laboratory hood is recommended regardless of byproducts produced.

6.1 Benchtop Bioreactor. The biological reaction is conducted in a biological oxidation reactor of at least 6-liters capacity. The benchtop bioreactor is sealed and equipped with internal probes for controlling and monitoring dissolved oxygen and internal temperature. The top of the benchtop bioreactor is equipped for aerators, gas flow ports, and instrumentation (while ensuring that no leaks to the atmosphere exist around the fittings).
