
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

6.3 Wastewater Feed. Supply the wastewater feed to the benchtop bioreactor in a collapsible low-density polyethylene container or collapsible liner in a container (20 L) equipped with a spigot cap (collapsible containers or liners of other material may be required due to the permeability of some volatile compounds through polyethylene). Obtain the wastewater feed by sampling the wastewater feed in the target process. A representative sample of wastewater shall be obtained from the piping leading to the aeration tank. This sample may be obtained from existing sampling valves at the discharge of the wastewater feed pump, or collected from a pipe discharging to the aeration tank, or by pumping from a well-mixed equalization tank upstream from the aeration tank. Alternatively, wastewater can be pumped continuously to the laboratory apparatus from a bleed stream taken from the equalization tank of the full-scale treatment system.

6.3.1 Refrigeration System. Keep the wastewater feed cool by ice or by refrigeration to 4 &#xB0;C. If using a bleed stream from the equalization tank, refrigeration is not required if the residence time in the bleed stream is less than five minutes.

6.3.2 Wastewater Feed Pump. The wastewater is pumped from the refrigerated container using a variable-speed peristaltic pump drive equipped with a peristaltic pump head. Add the feed solution to the benchtop bioreactor through a fitting on the top flange. Determine the rate of feed addition to provide a retention time in the benchtop bioreactor that is numerically equivalent to the retention time in the target full-scale system. The wastewater shall be fed at a rate sufficient to achieve 90 to 100 percent of the target full-scale system residence time.

6.3.3 Treated wastewater feed. The benchtop bioreactor effluent exits at the bottom of the reactor through a tube and proceeds to the clarifier.
