
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

7.2 Biomass. Obtain the biomass or activated sludge used for rate constant determination in the bench-scale process from the existing full-scale process or from a representative biomass culture (biomass that has been developed for a future full-scale process). This biomass is preferentially obtained from a thickened acclimated mixed liquor sample. Collect the sample either by bailing from the mixed liquor in the aeration tank with a weighted container, or by collecting aeration tank effluent at the effluent overflow weir. Transport the sample to the laboratory within no more than 4 hours of collection. Maintain the biomass concentration in the benchtop bioreactor at the level of the full-scale system + 10 percent throughout the sampling period of the test method.

8.1 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation. Charge the mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor, minimizing headspace over the liquid surface to minimize entrainment of mixed liquor in the circulating gas. Fasten the benchtop bioreactor headplate to the reactor over the liquid surface. Maintain the temperature of the contents of the benchtop bioreactor system at the temperature of the target full-scale system, +/-2 &#xB0;C, throughout the testing period. Monitor and record the temperature of the benchtop bioreactor contents at least to the nearest 0.1 &#xB0;C.

8.1.1 Wastewater Storage. Collect the wastewater sample in the 20-L collapsible container. Store the container at 4 &#xB0;C throughout the testing period. Connect the container to the benchtop bioreactor feed pump.

8.1.2 Wastewater Flow Rate.

8.1.2.1 The hydraulic residence time of the aeration tank is calculated as the ratio of the volume of the tank (L) to the flow rate (L/min). At the beginning of a test, the container shall be connected to the feed pump and solution shall be pumped to the benchtop bioreactor at the required flow rate to achieve the calculated hydraulic residence time of wastewater in the aeration tank.

8.1.2.2 The target flow rate in the test apparatus is the same as the flow rate in the target full-scale process multiplied by the ratio of benchtop bioreactor volume (e.g., 6 L) to the volume of the full-scale aeration tank. The hydraulic residence time shall be maintained at 90 to 100 percent of the residence time maintained in the full-scale unit. A nominal flow rate is set on the pump based on a pump calibration. Changes in the elasticity of the tubing in the pump head and the accumulation of material in the tubing affect this calibration. The nominal pumping rate shall be changed as necessary based on volumetric flow measurements. Discharge the benchtop bioreactor effluent to a wastewater storage, treatment, or disposal facility, except during sampling or flow measurement periods.

8.1.3 Sludge Recycle Rate. Set the sludge recycle rate at a rate sufficient to prevent accumulation in the bottom of the clarifier. Set the air circulation rate sufficient to maintain the biomass in suspension.

8.1.4 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation and Maintenance. Temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, exit vent flow rate, benchtop bioreactor effluent flow rate, and air circulation rate shall be measured and recorded three times throughout each day of benchtop bioreactor operation. If other parameters (such as pH) are measured and maintained in the target full-scale unit, these parameters, where appropriate, shall be monitored and maintained to target full-scale specifications in the benchtop bioreactor. At the beginning of each sampling period (Section 8.2), sample the benchtop bioreactor contents for suspended solids analysis. Take this sample by loosening a clamp on a length of tubing attached to the lower side port. Determine the suspended solids gravimetrically by the Gooch crucible/glass fiber filter method for total suspended solids, in accordance with Standard Methodsor equivalent. When necessary, sludge shall be wasted from the lower side port of the benchtop bioreactor, and the volume that is wasted shall be replaced with an equal volume of the reactor effluent. Add thickened activated sludge mixed liquor as necessary to the benchtop bioreactor to increase the suspended solids concentration to the desired level. Pump this mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor through the upper side port (Item 24 in Figure 304A-1). Change the membrane on the dissolved oxygen probe before starting the test. Calibrate the oxygen probe immediately before the start of the test and each time the membrane is changed.

8.1.5 Inspection and Correction Procedures. If the feed line tubing becomes clogged, replace with new tubing. If the feed flow rate is not within 5 percent of target flow any time the flow rate is measured, reset pump or check the flow measuring device and measure flow rate again until target flow rate is achieved.

8.2 Test Sampling. At least two and one half hydraulic residence times after the system has reached the targeted specifications shall be permitted to elapse before the first sample is taken. Effluent samples of the clarifier discharge (Item 20 in Figure 304A-1) and the influent wastewater feed are collected in 40-mL septum vials to which two drops of 1:10 hydrochloric acid (HCl) in water have been added. Sample the clarifier discharge directly from the drain line. These samples will be composed of the entire flow from the system for a period of several minutes. Feed samples shall be taken from the feed pump suction line after temporarily stopping the benchtop bioreactor feed, removing a connector, and squeezing the collapsible feed container. Store both influent and effluent samples at 4 &#xB0;C immediately after collection and analyze within 8 hours of collection.
