
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

6.4 Clarifier. The effluent flows to a separate closed clarifier that allows separation of biomass and effluent (2-liter pear-shaped glass separatory funnel, modified by removing the stopcock and adding a 25-mm OD glass tube at the bottom). Benchtop bioreactor effluent enters the clarifier through a tube inserted to a depth of 0.08 m (3 in.) through a stopper at the top of the clarifier. System effluent flows from a tube inserted through the stopper at the top of the clarifier to a drain (or sample bottle when sampling). The underflow from the clarifier leaves from the glass tube at the bottom of the clarifier. Flexible tubing connects this fitting to the sludge recycle pump. This pump is coupled to a variable speed pump drive. The discharge from this pump is returned through a tube inserted in a port on the side of the benchtop bioreactor. An additional port is provided near the bottom of the benchtop bioreactor for sampling the reactor contents. The mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor flows into the center of the clarifier. The clarified system effluent separates from the biomass and flows through an exit near the top of the clarifier. There shall be no headspace in the clarifier.

6.5 Temperature Control Apparatus. Capable of maintaining the system at a temperature equal to the temperature of the full-scale system. The average temperature should be maintained within +/-2 &#xB0;C of the set point.

6.5.1 Temperature Monitoring Device. A resistance type temperature probe or a thermocouple connected to a temperature readout with a resolution of 0.1 &#xB0;C or better.

6.5.2 Benchtop Bioreactor Heater. The heater is connected to the temperature control device.

6.6 Oxygen Control System. Maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration at the levels present in the full-scale system. Target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentration below 2 mg/L are required to maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor within 0.5 mg/L of the target dissolved oxygen level. Target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentration above 2 mg/L are required to maintain the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor within 1.5 mg/L of the target dissolved oxygen concentration; however, for target full-scale activated sludge systems with dissolved oxygen concentrations above 2 mg/L, the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor may not drop below 1.5 mg/L. If the benchtop bioreactor is outside the control range, the dissolved oxygen is noted and the reactor operation is adjusted.
