
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

11.3 Observations. Record all the information requested at the top of the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1), including the number of non-operating ovens. Record which side is being inspected,coke side or push side. Other information may be recorded at the discretion of the observer, such as the location of the leak (top of the door), the reason for any interruption of the traverse, or the position of the sun relative to the battery and sky conditions (overcast, partly sunny, etc.).

11.3.1 Begin the test run by traversing either the coke side or the push side of the battery. After completing one side, traverse the other side.

11.3.2 During the traverse, look around the entire perimeter of each oven door. The door is considered leaking if VE are detected in the coke oven door area. The coke oven door area includes the entire area on the vertical face of a coke oven between the bench and the top of the battery and the adjacent doors on both sides. Record the oven number and make the appropriate notation on the door area inspection sheet (Figure 303A-1).

11.3.3 Do not record the following sources as door area VE:

11.3.3.1 VE from ovens with doors removed. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under "Comments";

11.3.3.2 VE from ovens where maintenance work is being conducted. Record the oven number and make an appropriate notation under "Comments"; or

11.3.3.3 VE from hot coke that has been spilled on the bench as a result of pushing.

Same as Method 303, Section 12.1, 12.2, 12.3, 12.4, and 12.5.

Same as Method 303, Section 16.0.

1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for the determination of biodegradation rates of organic compounds in an activated sludge process. The test method is designed to evaluate the ability of an aerobic biological reaction system to degrade or destroy specific components in waste streams. The method may also be used to determine the effects of changes in wastewater composition on operation. The biodegradation rates determined by utilizing this method are not representative of a full-scale system. The rates measured by this method shall be used in conjunction with the procedures listed in appendix C of this part to calculate the fraction emitted to the air versus the fraction biodegraded.

2.1 A self-contained benchtop bioreactor system is assembled in the laboratory. A sample of mixed liquor is added and the waste stream is then fed continuously. The benchtop bioreactor is operated under conditions nearly identical to the target full-scale activated sludge process. Bioreactor temperature, dissolved oxygen concentration, average residence time in the reactor, waste composition, biomass concentration, and biomass composition of the full-scale process are the parameters which are duplicated in the benchtop bioreactor. Biomass shall be removed from the target full-scale activated sludge unit and held for no more than 4 hours prior to use in the benchtop bioreactor. If antifoaming agents are used in the full-scale system, they shall also be used in the benchtop bioreactor. The feed flowing into and the effluent exiting the benchtop bioreactor are analyzed to determine the biodegradation rates of the target compounds. The flow rate of the exit vent is used to calculate the concentration of target compounds (utilizing Henry's law) in the exit gas stream. If Henry's law constants for the compounds of interest are not known, this method cannot be used in the determination of the biodegradation rate and Method 304B is the suggested method. The choice of analytical methodology for measuring the compounds of interest at the inlet and outlet to the benchtop bioreactor are left to the discretion of the source, except where validated methods are available.

5.1 If explosive gases are produced as a byproduct of biodegradation and could realistically pose a hazard, closely monitor headspace concentration of these gases to ensure laboratory safety. Placement of the benchtop bioreactor system inside a laboratory hood is recommended regardless of byproducts produced.

6.1 Benchtop Bioreactor. The biological reaction is conducted in a biological oxidation reactor of at least 6 liters capacity. The benchtop bioreactor is sealed and equipped with internal probes for controlling and monitoring dissolved oxygen and internal temperature. The top of the reactor is equipped for aerators, gas flow ports, and instrumentation (while ensuring that no leaks to the atmosphere exist around the fittings).
