
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,,e.g.,,e.g.,

6.2 Aeration gas. Aeration gas is added to the benchtop bioreactor through three diffusers, which are glass tubes that extend to the bottom fifth of the reactor depth. A pure oxygen pressurized cylinder is recommended in order to maintain the specified oxygen concentration. Install a blower (Diaphragm Type, 15 SCFH capacity) to blow the aeration gas into the benchtop bioreactor diffusers. Measure the aeration gas flow rate with a rotameter (0-15 SCFH recommended). The aeration gas will rise through the benchtop bioreactor, dissolving oxygen into the mixture in the process. The aeration gas must provide sufficient agitation to keep the solids in suspension. Provide an exit for the aeration gas from the top flange of the benchtop bioreactor through a water-cooled (Allihn-type) vertical condenser. Install the condenser through a gas-tight fitting in the benchtop bioreactor closure. Design the system so that at least 10 percent of the gas flows through an alkaline scrubber containing 175 mL of 45 percent by weight solution of potassium hydroxide (KOH) and 5 drops of 0.2 percent alizarin yellow dye. Route the balance of the gas through an adjustable scrubber bypass. Route all of the gas through a 1-L knock-out flask to remove entrained moisture and then to the intake of the blower. The blower recirculates the gas to the benchtop bioreactor.
