
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.

2.1 The heated purge conditions established by Method 25D (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) are used to remove VOs from a 10 gram sample of waste suspended in a 50/50 solution of polyethylene glycol (PEG) and water. The purged VOs are quantified by using the sample collection and analytical techniques (gas chromatography) appropriate for the VOs present in the waste. The recovery efficiency of the sample collection and analytical technique is determined for each waste matrix. A correction factor is determined for each compound (if acceptable recovery criteria requirements are met of 70 to 130 percent recovery for every target compound), and the measured waste concentration is corrected with the correction factor for each compound. A minimum of three replicate waste samples shall be analyzed.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Method 25D Purge Apparatus.

6.1.1 Purge Chamber. The purge chamber shall accommodate the 10 gram sample of waste suspended in a matrix of 50 mL of PEG and 50 mL of deionized, hydrocarbon-free water. Three fittings are used on the glass chamber top. Two #7 Ace-threads are used for the purge gas inlet and outlet connections. A #50 Ace-thread is used to connect the top of the chamber to the base (see Figure 305-1). The base of the chamber has a side-arm equipped with a #22 Sovirel fitting to allow for easy sample introductions into the chamber. The dimensions of the chamber are shown in Figure 305-1.

6.1.2 Flow Distribution Device (FDD). The FDD enhances the gas-to-liquid contact for improved purging efficiency. The FDD is a 6 mm OD (0.2 in) by 30 cm (12 in) long glass tube equipped with four arm bubblers as shown in Figure 305-1. Each arm shall have an opening of 1 mm (0.04 in) in diameter.

6.1.3 Coalescing Filter. The coalescing filter serves to discourage aerosol formation of sample gas once it leaves the purge chamber. The glass filter has a fritted disc mounted 10 cm (3.9 in) from the bottom. Two #7 Ace-threads are used for the inlet and outlet connections. The dimensions of the chamber are shown in Figure 305-2.

6.1.4 Oven. A forced convection airflow oven capable of maintaining the purge chamber and coalescing filter at 75 +/-2 &#xB0;C (167 +/-3.6 &#xB0;F).

6.1.5 Toggle Valve. An on/off valve constructed from brass or stainless steel rated to 100 psig. This valve is placed in line between the purge nitrogen source and the flow controller.

6.1.6 Flow Controller. High-quality stainless steel flow controller capable of restricting a flow of nitrogen to 6 +/-0.06 L/min (0.2 +/-0.002 ft/min) at 40 psig.

6.1.7 Polyethylene Glycol Cleaning System.

6.1.7.1 Round-Bottom Flask. One liter, three-neck glass round-bottom flask for cleaning PEG. Standard taper 24/40 joints are mounted on each neck.

6.1.7.2 Heating Mantle. Capable of heating contents of the 1-L flask to 120 &#xB0;C (248 &#xB0;F).

6.1.7.3 Nitrogen Bubbler. Teflon &#xAE; or glass tube, 0.25 in OD (6.35 mm).

6.1.7.4 Temperature Sensor. Partial immersion glass thermometer.

6.1.7.5 Hose Adapter. Glass with 24/40 standard tapered joint.

6.2 Volatile Organic Recovery System.

6.2.1 Splitter Valve (Optional). Stainless steel cross-pattern valve capable of splitting nominal flow rates from the purge flow of 6 L/min (0.2 ft/min). The valve shall be maintained at 75 + 2 &#xB0;C (167 +/-3.6 &#xB0;F) in the heated zone and shall be placed downstream of the coalescing filter. It is recommended that 0.125 in OD (3.175 mm) tubing be used to direct the split vent flow from the heated zone. The back pressure caused by the 0.125 in OD (3.175 mm) tubing is critical for maintaining proper split valve operation.

6.2.2 Injection Port. Stainless steelin OD (6.35 mm) compression fitting tee with a 6 mm (0.2 in) septum fixed on the top port. The injection port is the point of entry for the recovery study solution. If using a gaseous standard to determine recovery efficiency, connect the gaseous standard to the injection port of the tee.

6.2.3 Knockout Trap (Optional but Recommended). A 25 mL capacity glass reservoir body with a full-stem impinger (to avoid leaks, a modified midget glass impinger with a screw cap and ball/socket clamps on the inlet and outlet is recommended). The empty impinger is placed in an ice water bath between the injection port and the sorbent cartridge. Its purpose is to reduce the water content of the purge gas (saturated at 75 &#xB0;C (167 &#xB0;F)) before the sorbent cartridge.

6.2.4 Insulated Ice Bath. A 350 mL dewar or other type of insulated bath is used to maintain ice water around the knockout trap.

6.2.5 Sorbent Cartridges. Commercially available glass or stainless steel cartridge packed with one or more appropriate sorbents. The amount of adsorbent packed in the cartridge depends on the breakthrough volume of the test compounds but is limited by back pressure caused by the packing (not to exceed 7 psig). More than one sorbent cartridge placed in series may be necessary depending upon the mixture of the measured components.

6.2.6 Volumetric Glassware. Type A glass 10 mL volumetric flasks for measuring a final volume from the water catch in the knockout trap.

6.2.7 Thermal Desorption Unit. A clam-shell type oven, used for the desorption of direct thermal desorption sorbent tubes. The oven shall be capable of increasing the temperature of the desorption tubes rapidly to recommended desorption temperature.

6.2.8 Ultrasonic Bath. Small bath used to agitate sorbent material and desorption solvent. Ice water shall be used in the bath because of heat transfer caused by operation of the bath.

6.2.9 Desorption Vials. Four-dram (15 mL) capacity borosilicate glass vials with Teflon-lined caps.

6.3 Analytical System. A gas chromatograph (GC) is commonly used to separate and quantify compounds from the sample collection and recovery procedure. Method 18 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) may be used as a guideline for determining the appropriate GC column and GC detector based on the test compounds to be determined. Other types of analytical instrumentation may be used (HPLC) in lieu of GC systems as long as the recovery efficiency criteria of this method are met.

6.3.1 Gas Chromatograph (GC). The GC shall be equipped with a constant-temperature liquid injection port or a heated sampling loop/valve system, as appropriate. The GC oven shall be temperature-programmable over the useful range of the GC column. The choice of detectors is based on the test compounds to be determined.
