
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

9.1 Dissolved Oxygen. Fluctuation in dissolved oxygen concentration may occur for numerous reasons, including undetected gas leaks, increases and decreases in mixed liquor suspended solids resulting from cell growth and solids loss in the effluent stream, changes in diffuser performance, cycling of effluent flow rate, and overcorrection due to faulty or sluggish dissolved oxygen probe response. Control the dissolved oxygen concentration in the benchtop bioreactor by changing the proportion of oxygen in the circulating aeration gas. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift below the designated experimental condition, bleed a small amount of aeration gas from the system on the pressure side (immediately upstream of one of the diffusers). This will create a vacuum in the system, triggering the pressure sensitive relay to open the solenoid valve and admit oxygen to the system. Should the dissolved oxygen concentration drift above the designated experimental condition, slow or stop the oxygen input to the system until the dissolved oxygen concentration approaches the correct level.

9.2 Sludge Wasting.

9.2.1 Determine the suspended solids concentration (section 8.1.4) at the beginning of a test, and once per day thereafter during the test. If the test is completed within a two day period, determine the suspended solids concentration after the final sample set is taken. If the suspended solids concentration exceeds the specified concentration, remove a fraction of the sludge from the benchtop bioreactor. The required volume of mixed liquor to remove is determined as follows:

9.2.2 Remove the mixed liquor from the benchtop bioreactor by loosening a clamp on the mixed liquor sampling tube and allowing the required volume to drain to a graduated flask. Clamp the tube when the correct volume has been wasted. Replace the volume of the liquid wasted by pouring the same volume of effluent back into the benchtop bioreactor. Dispose of the waste sludge properly.

9.3 Sludge Makeup. In the event that the suspended solids concentration is lower than the specifications, add makeup sludge back into the benchtop bioreactor. Determine the amount of sludge added by the following equation:

10.1 Wastewater Pump Calibration. Determine the wastewater flow rate by collecting the system effluent for a time period of at least one hour, and measuring the volume with a graduated cylinder. Record the collection time period and volume collected. Determine flow rate. Adjust the pump speed to deliver the specified flow rate.

10.2 Calibration Standards. Prepare calibration standards from pure certified standards in an aqueous medium. Prepare and analyze three concentrations of calibration standards for each target component (or for a mixture of components) in triplicate daily throughout the analyses of the test samples. At each concentration level, a single calibration shall be within 5 percent of the average of the three calibration results. The low and medium calibration standards shall bracket the expected concentration of the effluent (treated) wastewater. The medium and high standards shall bracket the expected influent concentration.

11.1 Analysis. If the identity of the compounds of interest in the wastewater is not known, a representative sample of the wastewater shall be analyzed in order to identify all of the compounds of interest present. A gas chromatography/mass spectrometry screening method is recommended.

11.1.1 After identifying the compounds of interest in the wastewater, develop and/or use one or more analytical technique capable of measuring each of those compounds (more than one analytical technique may be required, depending on the characteristics of the wastewater). Method 18, found in appendix A of 40 CFR 60, may be used as a guideline in developing the analytical technique. Purge and trap techniques may be used for analysis providing the target components are sufficiently volatile to make this technique appropriate. The limit of quantitation for each compound shall be determined.If the effluent concentration of any target compound is below the limit of quantitation determined for that compound, the operation of the Method 304 unit may be altered to attempt to increase the effluent concentration above the limit of quantitation. Modifications to the method shall be approved prior to the test. The request should be addressed to Method 304 contact, Emissions Measurement Center, Mail Drop 19, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711.

12.1 Nomenclature. The following symbols are used in the calculations.

12.2 Residence Time. The hydraulic residence time of the benchtop bioreactor is equal to the ratio of the volume of the benchtop bioreactor (L) to the flow rate (L/h)

12.3 Rate of Biodegradation. Calculate the rate of biodegradation for each component with the following equation:

12.4 First-Order Biorate Constant. Calculate the first-order biorate constant (K1) for each component with the following equation:

12.5 Relative Standard Deviation (RSD). Determine the standard deviation of both the influent and effluent sample concentrations (S) using the following equation:

12.6 Determination of Percent Air Emissions and Percent Biodegraded. Use the results from this test method and follow the applicable procedures in appendix C of 40 CFR Part 63, entitled, "Determination of the Fraction Biodegraded (F) in a Biological Treatment Unit" to determine F.

1. "Guidelines for data acquisition and data quality evaluation in Environmental Chemistry", Daniel MacDoughal, Analytical Chemistry, Volume 52, p. 2242, 1980.

2. Test Method 18, 40 CFR 60, Appendix A.

3. Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 16th Edition, Method 209C, Total Suspended Solids Dried at 103-105 &#xB0;C, APHA, 1985.

4. Water-7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)-Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.

5. Chemdat7, Hazardous Waste Treatment, Storage, and Disposal Facilities (TSDF)-Air Emission Models, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-450/3-87-026, Review Draft, November 1989.

1.1 Analyte. Volatile Organics. No CAS No. assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This procedure is used to determine the emission potential of individual volatile organics (VOs) in waste.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.
