
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

6.3.2 GC Column. Select the appropriate GC column based on (1) literature review or previous experience, (2) polarity of the analytes, (3) capacity of the column, or (4) resolving power (length, diameter, film thickness) required.

6.3.3 Data System. A programmable electronic integrator for recording, analyzing, and storing the signal generated by the detector.

7.1 Method 25D Purge Apparatus.

7.1.1 Polyethylene Glycol (PEG). Ninety-eight percent pure organic polymer with an average molecular weight of 400 g/mol. Volatile organics are removed from the PEG prior to use by heating to 120 +/-5 &#xB0;C (248 +/-9 &#xB0;F) and purging with pure nitrogen at 1 L/min (0.04 ft/min) for 2 hours. After purging and heating, the PEG is maintained at room temperature under a nitrogen purge maintained at 1 L/min (0.04 ft/min) until used. A typical apparatus used to clean the PEG is shown in Figure 305-3.

7.1.2 Water. Organic-free deionized water is required.

7.1.3 Nitrogen. High-purity nitrogen (less than 0.5 ppm total hydrocarbons) is used to remove test compounds from the purge matrix. The source of nitrogen shall be regulated continuously to 40 psig before the on/off toggle valve.

7.2 Volatile Organic Recovery System.

7.2.1 Water. Organic-free deionized water is required.

7.2.2 Desorption Solvent (when used). Appropriate high-purity (99.99 percent) solvent for desorption shall be used. Analysis shall be performed (utilizing the same analytical technique as that used in the analysis of the waste samples) on each lot to determine purity.

7.3 Analytical System. The gases required for GC operation shall be of the highest obtainable purity (hydrocarbon free). Consult the operating manual for recommended settings.

8.1 Assemble the glassware and associated fittings (see Figures 305-3 and 305-4, as appropriate) and leak-check the system (approximately 7 psig is the target pressure). After an initial leak check, mark the pressure gauge and use the initial checkpoint to monitor for leaks throughout subsequent analyses. If the pressure in the system drops below the target pressure at any time during analysis, that analysis shall be considered invalid.

8.2 Recovery Efficiency Determination. Determine the individual recovery efficiency (RE) for each of the target compounds in duplicate before the waste samples are analyzed. To determine the RE, generate a water blank (Section 11.1) and use the injection port to introduce a known volume of spike solution (or certified gaseous standard) containing all of the target compounds at the levels expected in the waste sample. Introduce the spike solution immediately after the nitrogen purge has been started (Section 8.3.2). Follow the procedures outlined in Section 8.3.3. Analyze the recovery efficiency samples using the techniques described in Section 11.2. Determine the recovery efficiency (Equation 305-1, Section 12.2) by comparing the amount of compound recovered to the theoretical amount spiked. Determine the RE twice for each compound; the relative standard deviation, (RSD) shall be &#x2264;10 percent for each compound. If the RSD for any compound is not &#x2264;10 percent, modify the sampling/analytical procedure and complete an RE study in duplicate, or continue determining RE until the RSD meets the acceptable criteria. The average RE shall be 0.70 &#x2264;RE &#x2264;1.30 for each compound. If the average RE does not meet these criteria, an alternative sample collection and/or analysis technique shall be developed and the recovery efficiency determination shall be repeated for that compound until the criteria are met for every target compound. Example modifications of the sampling/analytical system include changing the adsorbent material, changing the desorption solvent, utilizing direct thermal desorption of test compounds from the sorbent tubes, utilizing another analytical technique.

8.3 Sample Collection and Recovery.

8.3.1 The sample collection procedure in Method 25D shall be used to collect (into a preweighed vial) 10 g of waste into PEG, cool, and ship to the laboratory. Remove the sample container from the cooler and wipe the exterior to remove any ice or water. Weigh the container and sample to the nearest 0.01 g and record the weight. Pour the sample from the container into the purge flask. Rinse the sample container three times with approximately 6 mL of PEG (or the volume needed to total 50 mL of PEG in the purge flask), transferring the rinses to the purge flask. Add 50 mL of organic-free deionized water to the purge flask. Cap the purge flask tightly in between each rinse and after adding all the components into the flask.

8.3.2 Allow the oven to equilibrate to 75 +/-2 &#xB0;C (167 +/-3.6 &#xB0;F). Begin the sample recovery process by turning the toggle valve on, thus allowing a 6 L/min flow of pure nitrogen through the purge chamber.

8.3.3 Stop the purge after 30 min. Immediately remove the sorbent tube(s) from the apparatus and cap both ends. Remove the knockout trap and transfer the water catch to a 10 mL volumetric flask. Rinse the trap with organic-free deionized water and transfer the rinse to the volumetric flask. Dilute to the 10 mL mark with water. Transfer the water sample to a sample vial and store at 4 &#xB0;C (39.2 &#xB0;F) with zero headspace. The analysis of the contents of the water knockout trap is optional for this method. If the target compounds are water soluble, analysis of the water is recommended; meeting the recovery efficiency criteria in these cases would be difficult without adding the amount captured in the knockout trap.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures.

10.1 The analytical instrument shall be calibrated with a minimum of three levels of standards for each compound whose concentrations bracket the concentration of test compounds from the sorbent tubes. Liquid calibration standards shall be used for calibration in the analysis of the solvent extracts. The liquid calibration standards shall be prepared in the desorption solvent matrix. The calibration standards may be prepared and injected individually or as a mixture. If thermal desorption and focusing (onto another sorbent or cryogen focusing) are used, a certified gaseous mixture or a series of gaseous standards shall be used for calibration of the instrument. The gaseous standards shall be focused and analyzed in the same manner as the samples.

10.2 The analytical system shall be certified free from contaminants before a calibration is performed (see Section 11.1). The calibration standards are used to determine the linearity of the analytical system. Perform an initial calibration and linearity check by analyzing the three calibration standards for each target compound in triplicate starting with the lowest level and continuing to the highest level. If the triplicate analyses do not agree within 5 percent of their average, additional analyses will be needed until the 5 percent criteria is met. Calculate the response factor (Equation 305-3, Section 12.4) from the average area counts of the injections for each concentration level. Average the response factors of the standards for each compound. The linearity of the detector is acceptable if the response factor of each compound at a particular concentration is within 10 percent of the overall mean response factor for that compound. Analyze daily a mid-level calibration standard in duplicate and calculate a new response factor. Compare the daily response factor average to the average response factor calculated for the mid-level calibration during the initial linearity check; repeat the three-level calibration procedure if the daily average response factor differs from the initial linearity check mid-level response factor by more than 10 percent. Otherwise, proceed with the sample analysis.

11.1 Water Blank Analysis. A water blank shall be analyzed daily to determine the cleanliness of the purge and recovery system. A water blank is generated by adding 60 mL of organic-free deionized water to 50 mL of PEG in the purge chamber. Treat the blank as described in Sections 8.3.2 and 8.3.3. The purpose of the water blank is to insure that no contaminants exist in the sampling and analytical apparatus which would interfere with the quantitation of the target compounds. If contaminants are present, locate the source of contamination, remove it, and repeat the water blank analysis.

11.2 Sample Analysis. Sample analysis in the context of this method refers to techniques to remove the target compounds from the sorbent tubes, separate them using a chromatography technique, and quantify them with an appropriate detector. Two types of sample extraction techniques typically used for sorbents include solvent desorption or direct thermal desorption of test compounds to a secondary focusing unit (either sorbent or cryogen based). The test compounds are then typically transferred to a GC system for analysis. Other analytical systems may be used (e.g., HPLC) in lieu of GC systems as long as the recovery efficiency criteria of this method are met.

11.2.1 Recover the test compounds from the sorbent tubes that require solvent desorption by transferring the adsorbent material to a sample vial containing the desorption solvent. The desorption solvent shall be the same as the solvent used to prepare calibration standards. The volume of solvent depends on the amount of adsorbed material to be desorbed (1.0 mL per 100 mg of adsorbent material) and also on the amount of test compounds present. Final volume adjustment and or dilution can be made so that the concentration of test compounds in the desorption solvent is bracketed by the concentration of the calibration solutions. Ultrasonicate the desorption solvent for 15 min in an ice bath. Allow the sample to sit for a period of time so that the adsorbent material can settle to the bottom of the vial. Transfer the solvent with a pasteur pipet (minimizing the amount of adsorbent material taken) to another vial and store at 4 &#xB0;C (39.2 &#xB0;F).

11.2.2 Analyze the desorption solvent or direct thermal desorption tubes from each sample using the same analytical parameters used for the calibration standard. Calculate the total weight detected for each compound (Equation 305-4, Section 12.5). The slope (area/amount) and y-intercept are calculated from the line bracketed between the two closest calibration points. Correct the concentration of each waste sample with the appropriate recovery efficiency factor and the split flow ratio (if used). The final concentration of each individual test compound is calculated by dividing the corrected measured weight for that compound by the weight of the original sample determined in Section 8.3.1 (Equation 305-5, Section 12.6).

11.2.3 Repeat the analysis for the three samples collected in Section 8.3. Report the corrected concentration of each of the waste samples, average waste concentration, and relative standard deviation (Equation 305-6, Section 12.7).

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Recovery efficiency for determining trapping/desorption efficiency of individual test compounds in the spike solution, decimal value.

12.3 Weight of waste sample (g).

12.4 Response factor for individual test compounds.

12.5 Corrected weight of a test compound in the sample, in µg.

12.6 Final concentration of a test compound in the sample in ppmw.

12.7 Relative standard deviation (RSD) calculation.

1.1 Analytes.

1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the determination of chromium (Cr) in emissions from decorative and hard chrome electroplating facilities, chromium anodizing operations, and continuous chromium plating operations at iron and steel facilities.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives. [Reserved]

2.1 Sampling. An emission sample is extracted isokinetically from the source using an unheated Method 5 sampling train (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A), with a glass nozzle and probe liner, but with the filter omitted. The sample time shall be at least two hours. The Cr emissions are collected in an alkaline solution containing 0.1 N sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or 0.1 N sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO). The collected samples are recovered using an alkaline solution and are then transported to the laboratory for analysis.

2.2 Analysis.

2.2.1 Total chromium samples with high chromium concentrations (≥35 µg/L) may be analyzed using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry (ICP) at 267.72 nm.

2.2.2 Alternatively, when lower total chromium concentrations (<35 µg/L) are encountered, a portion of the alkaline sample solution may be digested with nitric acid and analyzed by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS) at 357.9 nm.

2.2.3 If it is desirable to determine hexavalent chromium (Cr) emissions, the samples may be analyzed using an ion chromatograph equipped with a post-column reactor (IC/PCR) and a visible wavelength detector. To increase sensitivity for trace levels of Cr, a preconcentration system may be used in conjunction with the IC/PCR.
