
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

7.2 Biomass. Obtain the biomass or activated sludge used for rate constant determination in the bench-scale process from the existing full-scale process or from a representative biomass culture (biomass that has been developed for a future full-scale process). This biomass is preferentially obtained from a thickened acclimated mixed liquor sample. Collect the sample either by bailing from the mixed liquor in the aeration tank with a weighted container, or by collecting aeration tank effluent at the effluent overflow weir. Transport the sample to the laboratory within no more than 4 hours of collection. Maintain the biomass concentration in the benchtop bioreactor at the level of the target full-scale system + 10 percent throughout the sampling period of the test method.

8.1 Benchtop Bioreactor Operation. Charge the mixed liquor to the benchtop bioreactor, minimizing headspace over the liquid surface to minimize entrainment of mixed liquor in the circulating gas. Fasten the benchtop bioreactor headplate to the reactor over the liquid surface. Maintain the temperature of the contents of the benchtop bioreactor system at the temperature of the target full-scale system, +/-2 &#xB0;C, throughout the testing period. Monitor and record the temperature of the reactor contents at least to the nearest 0.1 &#xB0;C.

8.1.1 Wastewater Storage. Collect the wastewater sample in the 20-L collapsible container. Store the container at 4 &#xB0;C throughout the testing period. Connect the container to the benchtop bioreactor feed pump.

8.1.2 Wastewater Flow Rate.

8.1.2.1 The hydraulic residence time of the aeration tank is calculated as the ratio of the volume of the tank (L) to the flow rate (L/min). At the beginning of a test, the container shall be connected to the feed pump and solution shall be pumped to the benchtop bioreactor at the required flow rate to achieve the calculated hydraulic residence time of wastewater in the aeration tank.
