
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

9.1.4.1 Two potential interferences, iron and manganese, may be prepared as 1000 µg/mL and 200 µg/mL solutions, respectively. The solutions should be prepared in dilute HNO(1-5 percent). Particular care must be used to ensure that the solutions and/or salts used to prepare the solutions are of ICP grade purity (that no measurable Cr contamination exists in the salts/solutions). Commercially prepared interfering element check standards are available.

9.1.4.2 Verify the interelement correction factors every three months by analyzing the interference check solution. The correction factors are calculated according to the instrument manufacturer's directions. If the interelement correction factors are used properly, no false Cr should be detected.

9.1.4.3 Negative results with an absolute value greater than three (3) times the detection limit are usually the results of the background correction position being set incorrectly. Scan the spectral region to ensure that the correction position has not been placed on an interfering peak.

9.1.5 ICP Duplicate Sample Analysis. Perform one duplicate sample analysis for each compliance sample batch (3 runs).

9.1.5.1 As there is no sample preparation required for the ICP analysis, a duplicate analysis is defined as a repeat analysis of one of the field samples. The selected sample shall be analyzed using the same procedures that were used to analyze the original sample.

9.1.5.2 Duplicate sample analyses shall agree within 10 percent of the original measurement value.

9.1.5.3 Report the original analysis value for the sample and report the duplicate analysis value as the QC check value. If agreement is not achieved, perform the duplicate analysis again. If agreement is not achieved the second time, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before analyzing the sample for a third time.

9.1.6 ICP Matrix Spiking. Spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed daily to ensure that there are no matrix effects, that samples and standards have been matrix-matched, and that the laboratory equipment is operating properly.

9.1.6.1 Spiked sample recovery analyses should indicate a recovery for the Cr spike of between 75 and 125 percent.

9.1.6.2 Cr levels in the spiked sample should provide final solution concentrations that are within the linear portion of the calibration curve, as well as, at a concentration level at least: equal to that of the original sample; and, ten (10) times the detection limit.

9.1.6.3 If the spiked sample concentration meets the stated criteria but exceeds the linear calibration range, the spiked sample must be diluted with the field absorbing solution.

9.1.6.4 If the recoveries for the Cr spiked samples do not meet the specified criteria, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to reanalyzing the samples.

9.1.7 ICP Field Reagent Blank.

9.1.7.1 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) per sample batch to determine if contamination or memory effects are occurring.

9.1.7.2 If contamination or memory effects are observed, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before reanalyzing the samples.

9.2 GFAAS Quality Control.

9.2.1 GFAAS Calibration Reference Standards. The calibration curve must be verified by using at least one calibration reference standard (made from a reference material or other independent standard material) at or near the mid-range of the calibration curve.

9.2.1.1 The calibration curve must be validated before sample analyses are performed.

9.2.1.2 The calibration reference standard must be measured within 10 percent of its true value for the curve to be considered valid.

9.2.2 GFAAS Continuing Check Standard.

9.2.2.1 Perform analysis of the check standard with the field samples as described in Section 11.4 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).

9.2.2.2 These standards are analyzed, in part, to monitor the life and performance of the graphite tube. Lack of reproducibility or a significant change in the signal for the check standard may indicate that the graphite tube should be replaced.

9.2.2.3 The check standard may be either the mid-range calibration standard or the reference standard.

9.2.2.4 The results of the check standard shall agree within 10 percent of the expected value.

9.2.2.5 If not, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate the instrument, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable check standard analysis.

9.2.3 GFAAS Calibration Blank.

9.2.3.1 Perform analysis of the calibration blank with the field samples as described in Section 11.4 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).

9.2.3.2 The calibration blank is analyzed to monitor the life and performance of the graphite tube as well as the existence of any memory effects. Lack of reproducibility or a significant change in the signal, may indicate that the graphite tube should be replaced.

9.2.3.3 The results of the calibration blank shall agree within three standard deviations of the mean blank value.

9.2.3.4 If not, analyze the calibration blank two more times and average the results. If the average is not within three standard deviations of the background mean, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable calibration blank analysis.

9.2.4 GFAAS Duplicate Sample Analysis. Perform one duplicate sample analysis for each compliance sample batch (3 runs).

9.2.4.1 A digested aliquot of the selected sample is processed and analyzed using the identical procedures that were used for the whole sample preparation and analytical efforts.

9.2.4.2 Duplicate sample analyses results incorporating duplicate digestions shall agree within 20 percent for sample results exceeding ten (10) times the detection limit.

9.2.4.3 Report the original analysis value for the sample and report the duplicate analysis value as the QC check value.

9.2.4.4 If agreement is not achieved, perform the duplicate analysis again. If agreement is not achieved the second time, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before analyzing the sample for a third time.

9.2.5 GFAAS Matrix Spiking.

9.2.5.1 Spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed daily to ensure that (1) correct procedures are being followed, (2) there are no matrix effects and (3) all equipment is operating properly.

9.2.5.2 Cr spikes are added prior to any sample preparation.

9.2.5.3 Cr levels in the spiked sample should provide final solution concentrations that are within the linear portion of the calibration curve, as well as, at a concentration level at least: equal to that of the original sample; and, ten (10) times the detection limit.

9.2.5.4 Spiked sample recovery analyses should indicate a recovery for the Cr spike of between 75 and 125 percent.

9.2.5.5 If the recoveries for the Cr spiked samples do not meet the specified criteria, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to reanalyzing the samples.

9.2.6 GFAAS Method of Standard Additions.

9.2.6.1 Method of Standard Additions. Perform procedures in Section 5.4 of Method 12 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A)

9.2.6.2 Whenever sample matrix problems are suspected and standard/sample matrix matching is not possible or whenever a new sample matrix is being analyzed, perform referenced procedures to determine if the method of standard additions is necessary.

9.2.7 GFAAS Field Reagent Blank.

9.2.7.1 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) per sample batch to determine if contamination or memory effects are occurring.

9.2.7.2 If contamination or memory effects are observed, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before reanalyzing the samples.

9.3 IC/PCR Quality Control.

9.3.1 IC/PCR Calibration Reference Standards.

9.3.1.1 Prepare a calibration reference standard at a concentration that is at or near the mid-point of the calibration curve using the same alkaline matrix as the calibration standards. This reference standard should be prepared from a different Cr stock solution than that used to prepare the calibration curve standards. The reference standard is used to verify the accuracy of the calibration curve.

9.3.1.2 The curve must be validated before sample analyses are performed. Prior to sample analysis, analyze at least one reference standard with an expected value within the calibration range.

9.3.1.3 The results of this reference standard analysis must be within 10 percent of the true value of the reference standard for the calibration curve to be considered valid.

9.3.2 IC/PCR Continuing Check Standard and Calibration Blank.

9.3.2.1 Perform analysis of the check standard and the calibration blank with the field samples as described in Section 11.6 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).

9.3.2.2 The result from the check standard must be within 10 percent of the expected value.

9.3.2.3 If the 10 percent criteria is exceeded, excessive drift and/or instrument degradation may have occurred, and must be corrected before further analyses can be performed.

9.3.2.4 The results of the calibration blank analyses must agree within three standard deviations of the mean blank value.

9.3.2.5 If not, analyze the calibration blank two more times and average the results.

9.3.2.6 If the average is not within three standard deviations of the background mean, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable calibration blank analysis.

9.3.3 IC/PCR Duplicate Sample Analysis.

9.3.3.1 Perform one duplicate sample analysis for each compliance sample batch (3 runs).

9.3.3.2 An aliquot of the selected sample is prepared and analyzed using procedures identical to those used for the emission samples (for example, filtration and/or, if necessary, preconcentration).

9.3.3.3 Duplicate sample injection results shall agree within 10 percent for sample results exceeding ten (10) times the detection limit.

9.3.3.4 Report the original analysis value for the sample and report the duplicate analysis value as the QC check value.

9.3.3.5 If agreement is not achieved, perform the duplicate analysis again.

9.3.3.6 If agreement is not achieved the second time, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to analyzing the sample for a third time.

9.3.4 ICP/PCR Matrix Spiking. Spiked samples shall be prepared and analyzed with each sample set to ensure that there are no matrix effects, that samples and standards have been matrix-matched, and that the equipment is operating properly.

9.3.4.1 Spiked sample recovery analysis should indicate a recovery of the Crspike between 75 and 125 percent.

9.3.4.2 The spiked sample concentration should be within the linear portion of the calibration curve and should be equal to or greater than the concentration of the original sample. In addition, the spiked sample concentration should be at least ten (10) times the detection limit.

9.3.4.3 If the recoveries for the Crspiked samples do not meet the specified criteria, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem prior to reanalyzing the samples.

9.3.5 IC/PCR Field Reagent Blank.

9.3.5.1 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) per sample batch to determine if contamination or memory effects are occurring.

9.3.5.2 If contamination or memory effects are observed, perform corrective action to identify and correct the problem before reanalyzing the samples.

10.1 Sampling Train Calibration. Perform calibrations described in Method 5, (40 CFR part 60, appendix A). The alternate calibration procedures described in Method 5, may also be used.

10.2 ICP Calibration.

10.2.1 Calibrate the instrument according to the instrument manufacturer's recommended procedures, using a calibration blank and three standards for the initial calibration.

10.2.2 Calibration standards should be prepared fresh daily, as described in Section 7.3.8. Be sure that samples and calibration standards are matrix matched. Flush the system with the calibration blank between each standard.

10.2.3 Use the average intensity of multiple exposures (3 or more) for both standardization and sample analysis to reduce random error.

10.2.4 Employing linear regression, calculate the correlation coefficient .

10.2.5 The correlation coefficient must equal or exceed 0.995.

10.2.6 If linearity is not acceptable, prepare and rerun another set of calibration standards or reduce the range of the calibration standards, as necessary.

10.3 GFAAS Calibration.

10.3.1 For instruments that measure directly in concentration, set the instrument software to display the correct concentration, if applicable.

10.3.2 Curve must be linear in order to correctly perform the method of standard additions which is customarily performed automatically with most instrument computer-based data systems.

10.3.3 The calibration curve (direct calibration or standard additions) must be prepared daily with a minimum of a calibration blank and three standards that are prepared fresh daily.

10.3.4 The calibration curve acceptance criteria must equal or exceed 0.995.

10.3.5 If linearity is not acceptable, prepare and rerun another set of calibration standards or reduce the range of calibration standards, as necessary.

10.4 IC/PCR Calibration.

10.4.1 Prepare a calibration curve using the calibration blank and three calibration standards prepared fresh daily as described in Section 7.3.8.

10.4.2 The calibration curve acceptance criteria must equal or exceed 0.995.

10.4.3 If linearity is not acceptable, remake and/or rerun the calibration standards. If the calibration curve is still unacceptable, reduce the range of the curve.

10.4.4 Analyze the standards with the field samples as described in Section 11.6.

11.1 ICP Sample Preparation.

11.1.1 The ICP analysis is performed directly on the alkaline impinger solution; acid digestion is not necessary, provided the samples and standards are matrix matched.

11.1.2 The ICP analysis should only be employed when the solution analyzed has a Cr concentration greater than 35 µg/L or five times the method detection limit as determined according to Appendix B in 40 CFR Part 136 or by other commonly accepted analytical procedures.

11.2 ICP Sample Analysis.

11.2.1 The ICP analysis is applicable for the determination of total chromium only.

11.2.2 ICP Blanks. Two types of blanks are required for the ICP analysis.

11.2.2.1 Calibration Blank. The calibration blank is used in establishing the calibration curve. For the calibration blank, use either 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO, whichever is used for the impinger absorbing solution. The calibration blank can be prepared fresh in the laboratory; it does not have to be prepared from the same batch of solution that was used in the field. A sufficient quantity should be prepared to flush the system between standards and samples.

11.2.2.2 Field Reagent Blank. The field reagent blank is collected in the field during the testing program. The field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4) is an aliquot of the absorbing solution prepared in Section 7.1.2. The reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination resulting from sample processing.

11.2.3 ICP Instrument Adjustment.

11.2.3.1 Adjust the ICP instrument for proper operating parameters including wavelength, background correction settings (if necessary), and interfering element correction settings (if necessary).

11.2.3.2 The instrument must be allowed to become thermally stable before beginning measurements (usually requiring at least 30 min of operation prior to calibration). During this warmup period, the optical calibration and torch position optimization may be performed (consult the operator's manual).

11.2.4 ICP Instrument Calibration.

11.2.4.1 Calibrate the instrument according to the instrument manufacturer's recommended procedures, and the procedures specified in Section 10.2.

11.2.4.2 Prior to analyzing the field samples, reanalyze the highest calibration standard as if it were a sample.

11.2.4.3 Concentration values obtained should not deviate from the actual values or from the established control limits by more than 5 percent, whichever is lower (see Sections 9.1 and 10.2).

11.2.4.4 If they do, follow the recommendations of the instrument manufacturer to correct the problem.

11.2.5 ICP Operational Quality Control Procedures.

11.2.5.1 Flush the system with the calibration blank solution for at least 1 min before the analysis of each sample or standard.

11.2.5.2 Analyze the continuing check standard and the calibration blank after each batch of 10 samples.

11.2.5.3 Use the average intensity of multiple exposures for both standardization and sample analysis to reduce random error.

11.2.6 ICP Sample Dilution.

11.2.6.1 Dilute and reanalyze samples that are more concentrated than the linear calibration limit or use an alternate, less sensitive Cr wavelength for which quality control data have already been established.

11.2.6.2 When dilutions are performed, the appropriate factors must be applied to sample measurement results.

11.2.7 Reporting Analytical Results. All analytical results should be reported in µg Cr/mL using three significant figures. Field sample volumes (mL) must be reported also.

11.3 GFAAS Sample Preparation.

11.3.1 GFAAS Acid Digestion. An acid digestion of the alkaline impinger solution is required for the GFAAS analysis.

11.3.1.1 In a beaker, add 10 mL of concentrated HNOto a 100 mL sample aliquot that has been well mixed. Cover the beaker with a watch glass. Place the beaker on a hot plate and reflux the sample to near dryness. Add another 5 mL of concentrated HNOto complete the digestion. Again, carefully reflux the sample volume to near dryness. Rinse the beaker walls and watch glass with reagent water.

11.3.1.2 The final concentration of HNOin the solution should be 1 percent (v/v).

11.3.1.3 Transfer the digested sample to a 50-mL volumetric flask. Add 0.5 mL of concentrated HNOand 1 mL of the 10 µg/mL of Ca(NO). Dilute to 50 mL with reagent water.

11.3.2 HNOConcentration. A different final volume may be used based on the expected Cr concentration, but the HNOconcentration must be maintained at 1 percent (v/v).

11.4 GFAAS Sample Analysis.

11.4.1 The GFAAS analysis is applicable for the determination of total chromium only.

11.4.2 GFAAS Blanks. Two types of blanks are required for the GFAAS analysis.

11.4.2.1 Calibration Blank. The 1.0 percent HNOis the calibration blank which is used in establishing the calibration curve.

11.4.2.2 Field Reagent Blank. An aliquot of the 0.1 N NaOH solution or the 0.1 N NaHCOprepared in Section 7.1.2 is collected for the field reagent blank. The field reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination resulting from processing the sample.

11.4.2.2.1 The reagent blank must be subjected to the entire series of sample preparation and analytical procedures, including the acid digestion.

11.4.2.2.2 The reagent blank's final solution must contain the same acid concentration as the sample solutions.

11.4.3 GFAAS Instrument Adjustment.

11.4.3.1 The 357.9 nm wavelength line shall be used.

11.4.3.2 Follow the manufacturer's instructions for all other spectrophotometer operating parameters.

11.4.4 Furnace Operational Parameters. Parameters suggested by the manufacturer should be employed as guidelines.

11.4.4.1 Temperature-sensing mechanisms and temperature controllers can vary between instruments and/or with time; the validity of the furnace operating parameters must be periodically confirmed by systematically altering the furnace parameters while analyzing a standard. In this manner, losses of analyte due to higher-than-necessary temperature settings or losses in sensitivity due to less than optimum settings can be minimized.

11.4.4.2 Similar verification of furnace operating parameters may be required for complex sample matrices (consult instrument manual for additional information). Calibrate the GFAAS system following the procedures specified in Section 10.3.

11.4.5 GFAAS Operational Quality Control Procedures.

11.4.5.1 Introduce a measured aliquot of digested sample into the furnace and atomize.

11.4.5.2 If the measured concentration exceeds the calibration range, the sample should be diluted with the calibration blank solution (1.0 percent HNO) and reanalyzed.

11.4.5.3 Consult the operator's manual for suggested injection volumes. The use of multiple injections can improve accuracy and assist in detecting furnace pipetting errors.

11.4.5.4 Analyze a minimum of one matrix-matched reagent blank per sample batch to determine if contamination or any memory effects are occurring.

11.4.5.5 Analyze a calibration blank and a continuing check standard after approximately every batch of 10 sample injections.

11.4.6 GFAAS Sample Dilution.

11.4.6.1 Dilute and reanalyze samples that are more concentrated than the instrument calibration range.

11.4.6.2 If dilutions are performed, the appropriate factors must be applied to sample measurement results.

11.4.7 Reporting Analytical Results.

11.4.7.1 Calculate the Cr concentrations by the method of standard additions (see operator's manual) or, from direct calibration. All dilution and/or concentration factors must be used when calculating the results.

11.4.7.2 Analytical results should be reported in µg Cr/mL using three significant figures. Field sample volumes (mL) must be reported also.

11.5 IC/PCR Sample Preparation.

11.5.1 Sample pH. Measure and record the sample pH prior to analysis.

11.5.2 Sample Filtration. Prior to preconcentration and/or analysis, filter all field samples through a 0.45-µm filter. The filtration step should be conducted just prior to sample injection/analysis.

11.5.2.1 Use a portion of the sample to rinse the syringe filtration unit and acetate filter and then collect the required volume of filtrate.

11.5.2.2 Retain the filter if total Cr is to be determined also.

11.5.3 Sample Preconcentration (older instruments).

11.5.3.1 For older instruments, a preconcentration system may be used in conjunction with the IC/PCR to increase sensitivity for trace levels of Cr.

11.5.3.2 The preconcentration is accomplished by selectively retaining the analyte on a solid absorbent, followed by removal of the analyte from the absorbent (consult instrument manual).

11.5.3.3 For a manual system, position the injection valve so that the eluent displaces the concentrated Crsample, transferring it from the preconcentration column and onto the IC anion separation column.

11.6 IC/PCR Sample Analyses.

11.6.1 The IC/PCR analysis is applicable for hexavalent chromium measurements only.

11.6.2 IC/PCR Blanks. Two types of blanks are required for the IC/PCR analysis.

11.6.2.1 Calibration Blank. The calibration blank is used in establishing the analytical curve. For the calibration blank, use either 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO, whichever is used for the impinger solution. The calibration blank can be prepared fresh in the laboratory; it does not have to be prepared from the same batch of absorbing solution that is used in the field.

11.6.2.2 Field Reagent Blank. An aliquot of the 0.1 N NaOH solution or the 0.1 N NaHCOsolution prepared in Section 7.1.2 is collected for the field reagent blank. The field reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination resulting from processing the sample.

11.6.3 Stabilized Baseline. Prior to sample analysis, establish a stable baseline with the detector set at the required attenuation by setting the eluent and post-column reagent flow rates according to the manufacturers recommendations.

11.6.4 Sample Injection Loop. Size of injection loop is based on standard/sample concentrations and the selected attenuator setting.

11.6.4.1 A 50-µL loop is normally sufficient for most higher concentrations.

11.6.4.2 The sample volume used to load the injection loop should be at least 10 times the loop size so that all tubing in contact with the sample is thoroughly flushed with the new sample to prevent cross contamination.

11.6.5 IC/PCR Instrument Calibration.

11.6.5.1 First, inject the calibration standards prepared, as described in Section 7.3.8 to correspond to the appropriate concentration range, starting with the lowest standard first.

11.6.5.2 Check the performance of the instrument and verify the calibration using data gathered from analyses of laboratory blanks, calibration standards, and a quality control sample.

11.6.5.3 Verify the calibration by analyzing a calibration reference standard. If the measured concentration exceeds the established value by more than 10 percent, perform a second analysis. If the measured concentration still exceeds the established value by more than 10 percent, terminate the analysis until the problem can be identified and corrected.

11.6.6 IC/PCR Instrument Operation.

11.6.6.1 Inject the calibration reference standard (as described in Section 9.3.1), followed by the field reagent blank (Section 8.2.4), and the field samples.

11.6.6.1.1 Standards (and QC standards) and samples are injected into the sample loop of the desired size (use a larger size loop for greater sensitivity). The Cris collected on the resin bed of the column.

11.6.6.1.2 After separation from other sample components, the Crforms a specific complex in the post-column reactor with the DPC reaction solution, and the complex is detected by visible absorbance at a maximum wavelength of 540 nm.

11.6.6.1.3 The amount of absorbance measured is proportional to the concentration of the Crcomplex formed.

11.6.6.1.4 The IC retention time and the absorbance of the Crcomplex with known Crstandards analyzed under identical conditions must be compared to provide both qualitative and quantitative analyses.

11.6.6.1.5 If a sample peak appears near the expected retention time of the Crion, spike the sample according to Section 9.3.4 to verify peak identity.

11.6.7 IC/PCR Operational Quality Control Procedures.

11.6.7.1 Samples should be at a pH ≥8.5 for NaOH and ≥8.0 if using NaHCO; document any discrepancies.

11.6.7.2 Refrigerated samples should be allowed to equilibrate to ambient temperature prior to preparation and analysis.

11.6.7.3 Repeat the injection of the calibration standards at the end of the analytical run to assess instrument drift. Measure areas or heights of the Cr/DPC complex chromatogram peaks.

11.6.7.4 To ensure the precision of the sample injection (manual or autosampler), the response for the second set of injected standards must be within 10 percent of the average response.

11.6.7.5 If the 10 percent criteria duplicate injection cannot be achieved, identify the source of the problem and rerun the calibration standards.

11.6.7.6 Use peak areas or peak heights from the injections of calibration standards to generate a linear calibration curve. From the calibration curve, determine the concentrations of the field samples.

11.6.8 IC/PCR Sample Dilution.

11.6.8.1 Samples having concentrations higher than the established calibration range must be diluted into the calibration range and re-analyzed.

11.6.8.2 If dilutions are performed, the appropriate factors must be applied to sample measurement results.

11.6.9 Reporting Analytical Results. Results should be reported in µg Cr/mL using three significant figures. Field sample volumes (mL) must be reported also.

12.1 Pretest Calculations.

12.1.1 Pretest Protocol (Site Test Plan).

12.1.1.1 The pretest protocol should define and address the test data quality objectives (DQOs), with all assumptions, that will be required by the end user (enforcement authority); what data are needed? why are the data needed? how will the data be used? what are method detection limits? and what are estimated target analyte levels for the following test parameters.

12.1.1.1.1 Estimated source concentration for total chromium and/or Cr.

12.1.1.1.2 Estimated minimum sampling time and/or volume required to meet method detection limit requirements (Appendix B 40 CFR Part 136) for measurement of total chromium and/or Cr.

12.1.1.1.3 Demonstrate that planned sampling parameters will meet DQOs. The protocol must demonstrate that the planned sampling parameters calculated by the tester will meet the needs of the source and the enforcement authority.

12.1.1.2 The pre-test protocol should include information on equipment, logistics, personnel, process operation, and other resources necessary for an efficient and coordinated test.

12.1.1.3 At a minimum, the pre-test protocol should identify and be approved by the source, the tester, the analytical laboratory, and the regulatory enforcement authority. The tester should not proceed with the compliance testing before obtaining approval from the enforcement authority.

12.1.2 Post Test Calculations.

12.1.2.1 Perform the calculations, retaining one extra decimal figure beyond that of the acquired data. Round off figures after final calculations.

12.1.2.2 Nomenclature.

12.1.2.3 Dilution Factor. The dilution factor is the ratio of the volume of sample aliquot after dilution to the volume before dilution. This ratio is given by the following equation:

12.1.2.4 Digestion Factor. The digestion factor is the ratio of the volume of sample aliquot after digestion to the volume before digestion. This ratio is given by Equation 306-2.

12.1.2.5 Total Cr in Sample. Calculate MCr, the total µg Cr in each sample, using the following equation:

12.1.2.6 Average Dry Gas Meter Temperature and Average Orifice Pressure Drop. Same as Method 5.

12.1.2.7 Dry Gas Volume, Volume of Water Vapor, Moisture Content. Same as Method 5.

12.1.2.8 Cr Emission Concentration (C). Calculate C, the Cr concentration in the stack gas, in mg/dscm on a dry basis, corrected to standard conditions using the following equation:

12.1.2.9 Isokinetic Variation, Acceptable Results. Same as Method 5.

13.1 Range. The recommended working range for all of the three analytical techniques starts at five times the analytical detection limit (see also Section 13.2.2). The upper limit of all three techniques can be extended indefinitely by appropriate dilution.

13.2 Sensitivity.

13.2.1 Analytical Sensitivity. The estimated instrumental detection limits listed are provided as a guide for an instrumental limit. The actual method detection limits are sample and instrument dependent and may vary as the sample matrix varies.

13.2.1.2 ICP Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum estimated detection limits for ICP, as reported in Method 6010A and the recently revised Method 6010B of SW-846 (Reference 1), are 7.0 µg Cr/L and 4.7 µg Cr/L, respectively.

13.2.1.3 GFAAS Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum estimated detection limit for GFAAS, as reported in Methods 7000A and 7191 of SW-846 (Reference 1), is 1 µg Cr/L.

13.2.1.4 IC/PCR Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum detection limit for IC/PCR with a preconcentrator, as reported in Methods 0061 and 7199 of SW-846 (Reference 1), is 0.05 µg Cr/L.

1.3.2.1.5 Determination of Detection Limits. The laboratory performing the Crmeasurements must determine the method detection limit on a quarterly basis using a suitable procedure such as that found in 40 CFR, Part 136, Appendix B. The determination should be made on samples in the appropriate alkaline matrix. Normally this involves the preparation (if applicable) and consecutive measurement of seven (7) separate aliquots of a sample with a concentration <5 times the expected detection limit. The detection limit is 3.14 times the standard deviation of these results.

13.2.2 In-stack Sensitivity. The in-stack sensitivity depends upon the analytical detection limit, the volume of stack gas sampled, the total volume of the impinger absorbing solution plus the rinses, and, in some cases, dilution or concentration factors from sample preparation. Using the analytical detection limits given in Sections 13.2.1.1, 13.2.1.2, and 13.2.1.3; a stack gas sample volume of 1.7 dscm; a total liquid sample volume of 500 mL; and the digestion concentration factor offor the GFAAS analysis; the corresponding in-stack detection limits are 0.0014 mg Cr/dscm to 0.0021 mg Cr/dscm for ICP, 0.00015 mg Cr/dscm for GFAAS, and 0.000015 mg Cr/dscm for IC/PCR with preconcentration.

13.3 Precision.

13.3.1 The following precision data have been reported for the three analytical methods. In each case, when the sampling precision is combined with the reported analytical precision, the resulting overall precision may decrease.

13.3.2 Bias data is also reported for GFAAS.

13.4 ICP Precision.

13.4.1 As reported in Method 6010B of SW-846 (Reference 1), in an EPA round-robin Phase 1 study, seven laboratories applied the ICP technique to acid/distilled water matrices that had been spiked with various metal concentrates. For true values of 10, 50, and 150 µg Cr/L; the mean reported values were 10, 50, and 149 µg Cr/L; and the mean percent relative standard deviations were 18, 3.3, and 3.8 percent, respectively.

13.4.2 In another multi laboratory study cited in Method 6010B, a mean relative standard of 8.2 percent was reported for an aqueous sample concentration of approximately 3750 µg Cr/L.

13.5 GFAAS Precision. As reported in Method 7191 of SW-846 (Reference 1), in a single laboratory (EMSL), using Cincinnati, Ohio tap water spiked at concentrations of 19, 48, and 77 µg Cr/L, the standard deviations were +/-0.1, +/-0.2, and +/-0.8, respectively. Recoveries at these levels were 97 percent, 101 percent, and 102 percent, respectively.

13.6 IC/PCR Precision. As reported in Methods 0061 and 7199 of SW-846 (Reference 1), the precision of IC/PCR with sample preconcentration is 5 to 10 percent. The overall precision for sewage sludge incinerators emitting 120 ng/dscm of Crand 3.5 µg/dscm of total Cr was 25 percent and 9 percent, respectively; and for hazardous waste incinerators emitting 300 ng/dscm of Cthe precision was 20 percent.

14.1 The only materials used in this method that could be considered pollutants are the chromium standards used for instrument calibration and acids used in the cleaning of the collection and measurement containers/labware, in the preparation of standards, and in the acid digestion of samples. Both reagents can be stored in the same waste container.

14.2 Cleaning solutions containing acids should be prepared in volumes consistent with use to minimize the disposal of excessive volumes of acid.

14.3 To the extent possible, the containers/vessels used to collect and prepare samples should be cleaned and reused to minimize the generation of solid waste.

15.1 It is the responsibility of the laboratory and the sampling team to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the discharge regulations, hazardous waste identification rules, and land disposal restrictions; and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from field operations.

15.2 For further information on waste management, consult The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

1. "Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods, SW-846, Third Edition," as amended by Updates I, II, IIA, IIB, and III. Document No. 955-001-000001. Available from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, November 1986.

2. Cox, X.B., R.W. Linton, and F.E. Butler. Determination of Chromium Speciation in Environmental Particles-A Multi-technique Study of Ferrochrome Smelter Dust. Accepted for publication in Environmental Science and Technology.

3. Same as Section 17.0 of Method 5, References 2, 3, 4, 5, and 7.

4. California Air Resources Board, "Determination of Total Chromium and Hexavalent Chromium Emissions from Stationary Sources." Method 425, September 12, 1990.
