
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

4.1.2 ICP Physical Interferences. High levels of dissolved solids in the samples may cause significant inaccuracies due to salt buildup at the nebulizer and torch tips. This problem can be controlled by diluting the sample or by extending the rinse times between sample analyses. Standards shall be prepared in the same solution matrix as the samples (0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO).

4.1.3 ICP Chemical Interferences. These include molecular compound formation, ionization effects and solute vaporization effects, and are usually not significant in the ICP procedure, especially if the standards and samples are matrix matched.

4.2 GFAAS Interferences.

4.2.1 GFAAS Chemical Interferences. Low concentrations of calcium and/or phosphate may cause interferences; at concentrations above 200 µg/L, calcium's effect is constant and eliminates the effect of phosphate. Calcium nitrate is therefore added to the concentrated analyte to ensure a known constant effect. Other matrix modifiers recommended by the instrument manufacturer may also be considered.

4.2.2 GFAAS Cyanide Band Interferences. Nitrogen should not be used as the purge gas due to cyanide band interference.

4.2.3 GFAAS Spectral Interferences. Background correction may be required because of possible significant levels of nonspecific absorption and scattering at the 357.9 nm analytical wavelength.

4.2.4 GFAAS Background Interferences. Zeeman or Smith-Hieftje background correction is recommended for interferences resulting from high levels of dissolved solids in the alkaline impinger solutions.

4.3 IC/PCR Interferences.

4.3.1 IC/PCR Chemical Interferences. Components in the sample matrix may cause Crto convert to trivalent chromium (Cr) or cause Crto convert to Cr. The chromatographic separation of Crusing ion chromatography reduces the potential for other metals to interfere with the post column reaction. For the IC/PCR analysis, only compounds that coelute with Crand affect the diphenylcarbazide reaction will cause interference.

4.3.2 IC/PCR Background Interferences. Periodic analyses of reagent water blanks are used to demonstrate that the analytical system is essentially free of contamination. Sample cross-contamination can occur when high-level and low-level samples or standards are analyzed alternately and can be eliminated by thorough purging of the sample loop. Purging of the sample can easily be achieved by increasing the injection volume to ten times the size of the sample loop.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Hexavalent chromium compounds have been listed as carcinogens although chromium (III) compounds show little or no toxicity. Chromium can be a skin and respiratory irritant.

6.1 Sampling Train.

6.1.1 A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 306-1. The train is the same as shown in Method 5, Section 6.0 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A) except that the probe liner is unheated, the particulate filter is omitted, and quartz or borosilicate glass must be used for the probe nozzle and liner in place of stainless steel.

6.1.2 Probe fittings of plastic such as Teflon, polypropylene, etc. are recommended over metal fittings to prevent contamination. If desired, a single combined probe nozzle and liner may be used, but such a single glass assembly is not a requirement of this methodology.

6.1.3 Use 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOin the impingers in place of water.

6.1.4 Operating and maintenance procedures for the sampling train are described in APTD-0576 of Method 5. Users should read the APTD-0576 document and adopt the outlined procedures. Alternative mercury-free thermometers may be used if the thermometers are, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

6.1.5 Similar collection systems which have been approved by the Administrator may be used.

6.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, [40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A], with the following exceptions:

6.2.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes. Brushes are not necessary for sample recovery. If a probe brush is used, it must be non-metallic.

6.2.2 Sample Recovery Solution. Use 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO, whichever is used as the impinger absorbing solution, in place of acetone to recover the sample.

6.2.3 Sample Storage Containers. Polyethylene, with leak-free screw cap, 250 mL, 500 mL or 1,000 mL.

6.3 Analysis.

6.3.1 General. For analysis, the following equipment is needed.

6.3.1.1 Phillips Beakers. (Phillips beakers are preferred, but regular beakers may also be used.)

6.3.1.2 Hot Plate.

6.3.1.3 Volumetric Flasks. Class A, various sizes as appropriate.

6.3.1.4 Assorted Pipettes.

6.3.2 Analysis by ICP.

6.3.2.1 ICP Spectrometer. Computer-controlled emission spectrometer with background correction and radio frequency generator.

6.3.2.2 Argon Gas Supply. Welding grade or better.

6.3.3 Analysis by GFAAS.

6.3.3.1 Chromium Hollow Cathode Lamp or Electrodeless Discharge Lamp.

6.3.3.2 Graphite Furnace Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer.

6.3.3.3 Furnace Autosampler.

6.3.4 Analysis by IC/PCR.

6.3.4.1 IC/PCR System. High performance liquid chromatograph pump, sample injection valve, post-column reagent delivery and mixing system, and a visible detector, capable of operating at 520 nm-540 nm, all with a non-metallic (or inert) flow path. An electronic peak area mode is recommended, but other recording devices and integration techniques are acceptable provided the repeatability criteria and the linearity criteria for the calibration curve described in Section 10.4 can be satisfied. A sample loading system is required if preconcentration is employed.

6.3.4.2 Analytical Column. A high performance ion chromatograph (HPIC) non-metallic column with anion separation characteristics and a high loading capacity designed for separation of metal chelating compounds to prevent metal interference. Resolution described in Section 11.6 must be obtained. A non-metallic guard column with the same ion-exchange material is recommended.

6.3.4.3 Preconcentration Column (for older instruments). An HPIC non-metallic column with acceptable anion retention characteristics and sample loading rates must be used as described in Section 11.6.

6.3.4.4 Filtration Apparatus for IC/PCR.

6.3.4.4.1 Teflon, or equivalent, filter holder to accommodate 0.45-µm acetate, or equivalent, filter, if needed to remove insoluble particulate matter.

6.3.4.4.2 0.45-µm Filter Cartridge. For the removal of insoluble material. To be used just prior to sample injection/analysis.

7.1 Sampling.

7.1.1 Water. Reagent water that conforms to ASTM Specification D1193-77 or 91 Type II (incorporated by reference see § 63.14). All references to water in the method refer to reagent water unless otherwise specified. It is recommended that water blanks be checked prior to preparing the sampling reagents to ensure that the Cr content is less than three (3) times the anticipated detection limit of the analytical method.

7.1.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH) Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve 4.0 g of sodium hydroxide in 1 liter of water to obtain a pH of approximately 8.5.

7.1.3 Sodium Bicarbonate (NaHCO) Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve approximately 8.5 g of sodium bicarbonate in 1 liter of water to obtain a pH of approximately 8.3.

7.1.4 Chromium Contamination.

7.1.4.1 The absorbing solution shall not exceed the QC criteria noted in Section 7.1.1 (&#x2264;3 times the instrument detection limit).

7.1.4.2 When the Crcontent in the field samples exceeds the blank concentration by at least a factor of ten (10), Crblank concentrations ≥10 times the detection limit will be allowed.

7.1.5 Silica Gel. Same as in Method 5.

7.2 Sample Recovery.

7.2.1 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO. Use the same solution for the sample recovery that is used for the impinger absorbing solution.

7.2.2 pH Indicator Strip, for IC/PCR. pH indicator capable of determining the pH of solutions between the pH range of 7 and 12, at 0.5 pH increments.

7.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

7.3.1 Nitric Acid (HNO), Concentrated, for GFAAS. Trace metals grade or better HNOmust be used for reagent preparation. The ACS reagent grade HNOis acceptable for cleaning glassware.

7.3.2 HNO, 1.0% (v/v), for GFAAS. Prepare, by slowly stirring, 10 mL of concentrated HNO) into 800 mL of reagent water. Dilute to 1,000 mL with reagent water. The solution shall contain less than 0.001 mg Cr/L.

7.3.3 Calcium Nitrate Ca(NO)Solution (10 µg Ca/mL) for GFAAS analysis. Prepare the solution by weighing 40.9 mg of Ca(NO)into a 1 liter volumetric flask. Dilute with reagent water to 1 liter.

7.3.4 Matrix Modifier, for GFAAS. See instrument manufacturer's manual for suggested matrix modifier.

7.3.5 Chromatographic Eluent, for IC/PCR. The eluent used in the analytical system is ammonium sulfate based.

7.3.5.1 Prepare by adding 6.5 mL of 29 percent ammonium hydroxide (NHOH) and 33 g of ammonium sulfate ((NH)SO) to 500 mL of reagent water. Dilute to 1 liter with reagent water and mix well.

7.3.5.2 Other combinations of eluents and/or columns may be employed provided peak resolution, repeatability, linearity, and analytical sensitivity as described in Sections 9.3 and 11.6 are acceptable.

7.3.6 Post-Column Reagent, for IC/PCR. An effective post-column reagent for use with the chromatographic eluent described in Section 7.3.5 is a diphenylcarbazide (DPC)-based system. Dissolve 0.5 g of 1,5-diphenylcarbazide in 100 mL of ACS grade methanol. Add 500 mL of reagent water containing 50 mL of 96 percent spectrophotometric grade sulfuric acid. Dilute to 1 liter with reagent water.

7.3.7 Chromium Standard Stock Solution (1000 mg/L). Procure a certified aqueous standard or dissolve 2.829 g of potassium dichromate (KCrO), in reagent water and dilute to 1 liter.

7.3.8 Calibration Standards for ICP or IC/PCR. Prepare calibration standards for ICP or IC/PCR by diluting the Cr standard stock solution (Section 7.3.7) with 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO, whichever is used as the impinger absorbing solution, to achieve a matrix similar to the actual field samples. Suggested levels are 0, 50, 100, and 200 µg Cr/L for ICP, and 0, 1, 5, and 10 µg Cr/L for IC/PCR.

7.3.9 Calibration Standards for GFAAS. Chromium solutions for GFAAS calibration shall contain 1.0 percent (v/v) HNO. The zero standard shall be 1.0 percent (v/v) HNO. Calibration standards should be prepared daily by diluting the Cr standard stock solution (Section 7.3.7) with 1.0 percent HNO. Use at least four standards to make the calibration curve. Suggested levels are 0, 10, 50, and 100 µg Cr/L.

7.4 Glassware Cleaning Reagents.

7.4.1 HNO, Concentrated. ACS reagent grade or equivalent.

7.4.2 Water. Reagent water that conforms to ASTM Specification D1193-77 or 91 Type II.

7.4.3 HNO, 10 percent (v/v). Add by stirring 500 mL of concentrated HNOinto a flask containing approximately 4,000 mL of reagent water. Dilute to 5,000 mL with reagent water. Mix well. The reagent shall contain less than 2 µg Cr/L.

8.1 Sample Collection. Same as Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A), with the following exceptions.

8.1.1 Omit the particulate filter and filter holder from the sampling train. Use a glass nozzle and probe liner instead of stainless steel. Do not heat the probe. Place 100 mL of 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOin each of the first two impingers, and record the data for each run on a data sheet such as shown in Figure 306-2.

8.1.2 Clean all glassware prior to sampling in hot soapy water designed for laboratory cleaning of glassware. Next, rinse the glassware three times with tap water, followed by three additional rinses with reagent water. Then soak the glassware in 10% (v/v) HNOsolution for a minimum of 4 hours, rinse three times with reagent water, and allow to air dry. Cover all glassware openings where contamination can occur with Parafilm, or equivalent, until the sampling train is assembled for sampling.

8.1.3 Train Operation. Follow the basic procedures outlined in Method 5 in conjunction with the following instructions. Train sampling rate shall not exceed 0.030 m/min (1.0 cfm) during a run.

8.2 Sample Recovery. Follow the basic procedures of Method 5, with the exceptions noted.

8.2.1 A particulate filter is not recovered from this train.

8.2.2 Tester shall select either the total Cr or Crsample recovery option.

8.2.3 Samples to be analyzed for both total Cr and Cr, shall be recovered using the Crsample option (Section 8.2.6).

8.2.4 A field reagent blank shall be collected for either of the Cr or the Cranalysis. If both analyses (Cr and Cr) are to be conducted on the samples, collect separate reagent blanks for each analysis.

8.2.5 Total Cr Sample Option.

8.2.5.1 Container No. 1. Measure the volume of the liquid in the first, second, and third impingers and quantitatively transfer into a labeled sample container.

8.2.5.2 Use approximately 200 to 300 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOabsorbing solution to rinse the probe nozzle, probe liner, three impingers, and connecting glassware; add this rinse to Container No. 1.

8.2.6 CrSample Option.
