
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### The Merck Index.

5.Eleventh Edition. Merck & Co., Inc., 1989.

6. Walpole, R.E., and R.H. Myers. "Probability and Statistics for Scientists and Engineering." 3rd Edition. MacMillan Publishing Co., NewYork, N.Y., 1985.

1.1 Analyte. Chromium. CAS Number (7440-47-3).

1.2 Applicability.

1.2.1 This method applies to the determination of chromium (Cr) in emissions from decorative and hard chromium electroplating facilities, chromium anodizing operations, and continuous chromium plating at iron and steel facilities. The method is less expensive and less complex to conduct than Method 306. Correctly applied, the precision and bias of the sample results should be comparable to those obtained with the isokinetic Method 306. This method is applicable for the determination of air emissions under nominal ambient moisture, temperature, and pressure conditions.

1.2.2 The method is also applicable to electroplating and anodizing sources controlled by wet scrubbers.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives.

1.3.1 Pretest Protocol.

1.3.1.1 The pretest protocol should define and address the test data quality objectives (DQOs), with all assumptions, that will be required by the end user (enforcement authority); what data are needed? why are the data needed? how will data be used? what are method detection limits? and what are estimated target analyte levels for the following test parameters.

1.3.1.1.1 Estimated source concentration for total chromium and/or Cr.

1.3.1.1.2 Estimated minimum sampling time and/or volume required to meet method detection limit requirements (Appendix B 40 CFR Part 136) for measurement of total chromium and/or Cr.

1.3.1.1.3 Demonstrate that planned sampling parameters will meet DQOs. The protocol must demonstrate that the planned sampling parameters calculated by the tester will meet the needs of the source and the enforcement authority.

1.3.1.2 The pre-test protocol should include information on equipment, logistics, personnel, process operation, and other resources necessary for an efficient and coordinated performance test.

1.3.1.3 At a minimum, the pre-test protocol should identify and be approved by the source, the tester, the analytical laboratory, and the regulatory enforcement authority. The tester should not proceed with the compliance testing before obtaining approval from the enforcement authority.

2.1 Sampling.

2.1.1 An emission sample is extracted from the source at a constant sampling rate determined by a critical orifice and collected in a sampling train composed of a probe and impingers. The proportional sampling time at the cross sectional traverse points is varied according to the stack gas velocity at each point. The total sample time must be at least two hours.

2.1.2 The chromium emission concentration is determined by the same analytical procedures described in Method 306: inductively-coupled plasma emission spectrometry (ICP), graphite furnace atomic absorption spectrometry (GFAAS), or ion chromatography with a post-column reactor (IC/PCR).

2.1.2.1 Total chromium samples with high chromium concentrations (≥35 µg/L) may be analyzed using inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometry (ICP) at 267.72 nm.

2.1.2.2 Alternatively, when lower total chromium concentrations (<35 µg/L) are encountered, a portion of the alkaline sample solution may be digested with nitric acid and analyzed by graphite furnace atomic absorption spectroscopy (GFAAS) at 357.9 nm.

2.1.2.3 If it is desirable to determine hexavalent chromium (Cr) emissions, the samples may be analyzed using an ion chromatograph equipped with a post-column reactor (IC/PCR) and a visible wavelength detector. To increase sensitivity for trace levels of Cr, a preconcentration system may be used in conjunction with the IC/PCR.
