
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### first

8.2.6.1 Container No. 1. Measure and record the pH of the absorbing solution contained in theimpinger at the end of the sampling run using a pH indicator strip. The pH of the solution must be ≥8.5 for NaOH and ≥8.0 for NaHCO. If it is not, discard the collected sample, increase the normality of the NaOH or NaHCOimpinger absorbing solution to 0.5 N or to a solution normality approved by the Administrator and collect another air emission sample.

8.2.6.2 After determining the pH of the first impinger solution, combine and measure the volume of the liquid in the first, second, and third impingers and quantitatively transfer into the labeled sample container. Use approximately 200 to 300 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOabsorbing solution to rinse the probe nozzle, probe liner, three impingers, and connecting glassware; add this rinse to Container No. 1.

8.2.7 Field Reagent Blank.

8.2.7.1 Container No. 2.

8.2.7.2 Place approximately 500 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOabsorbing solution into a labeled sample container.

8.3 Sample Preservation, Storage, and Transport.

8.3.1 Total Cr Sample Option. Samples to be analyzed for total Cr need not be refrigerated.

8.3.2 CrSample Option. Samples to be analyzed for Crmust be shipped and stored at 4 &#xB0;C. Allow Crsamples to return to ambient temperature prior to analysis.

8.4 Sample Holding Times.

8.4.1 Total Cr Sample Option. Samples to be analyzed for total Cr shall be analyzed within 60 days of collection.

8.4.2 CrSample Option. Samples to be analyzed for Crshall be analyzed within 14 days of collection.

9.1 ICP Quality Control.

9.1.1 ICP Calibration Reference Standards. Prepare a calibration reference standard using the same alkaline matrix as the calibration standards; it should be at least 10 times the instrumental detection limit.

9.1.1.1 This reference standard must be prepared from a different Cr stock solution source than that used for preparation of the calibration curve standards.

9.1.1.2 Prior to sample analysis, analyze at least one reference standard.

9.1.1.3 The calibration reference standard must be measured within 10 percent of it's true value for the curve to be considered valid.

9.1.1.4 The curve must be validated before sample analyses are performed.

9.1.2 ICP Continuing Check Standard.

9.1.2.1 Perform analysis of the check standard with the field samples as described in Section 11.2 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).

9.1.2.2 The check standard can either be the mid-range calibration standard or the reference standard. The results of the check standard shall agree within 10 percent of the expected value; if not, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate the instrument, and rerun all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable check standard analysis.

9.1.3 ICP Calibration Blank.

9.1.3.1 Perform analysis of the calibration blank with the field samples as described in Section 11.2 (at least after every 10 samples, and at the end of the analytical run).

9.1.3.2 The results of the calibration blank shall agree within three standard deviations of the mean blank value. If not, analyze the calibration blank two more times and average the results. If the average is not within three standard deviations of the background mean, terminate the analyses, correct the problem, recalibrate, and reanalyze all samples analyzed subsequent to the last acceptable calibration blank analysis.

9.1.4 ICP Interference Check. Prepare an interference check solution that contains known concentrations of interfering elements that will provide an adequate test of the correction factors in the event of potential spectral interferences.
