
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Sample Recovery

3.6-The quantitative transfer of sample from the collection apparatus to the sample preparation (digestion, etc.) apparatus. This term should not be confused with analytical recovery.

4.1 Same as in Method 306, Section 4.0.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method does not purport to address all of the safety issues associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

5.2 Chromium and some chromium compounds have been listed as carcinogens although Chromium (III) compounds show little or no toxicity. Chromium is a skin and respiratory irritant.

6.1 Sampling Train. A schematic of the sampling train is shown in Figure 306A-1. The individual components of the train are available commercially, however, some fabrication and assembly are required.

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle/Tubing and Sheath.

6.1.1.1 Use approximately 6.4-mm (-in.) inside diameter (ID) glass or rigid plastic tubing approximately 20 cm (8 in.) in length with a short 90 degree bend at one end to form the sampling nozzle. Grind a slight taper on the nozzle end before making the bend. Attach the nozzle to flexible tubing of sufficient length to enable collection of a sample from the stack.

6.1.1.2 Use a straight piece of larger diameter rigid tubing (such as metal conduit or plastic water pipe) to form a sheath that begins about 2.5 cm (1 in.) from the 90 &#xB0; bend on the nozzle and encases and supports the flexible tubing.

6.1.2 Type S Pitot Tube. Same as Method 2, Section 6.1 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).

6.1.3 Temperature Sensor.

6.1.3.1 A thermocouple, liquid-filled bulb thermometer, bimetallic thermometer, mercury-in-glass thermometer, or other sensor capable of measuring temperature to within 1.5 percent of the minimum absolute stack temperature.

6.1.3.2 The temperature sensor shall either be positioned near the center of the stack, or be attached to the pitot tube as directed in Section 6.3 of Method 2.

6.1.4 Sample Train Connectors.

6.1.4.1 Use thick wall flexible plastic tubing (polyethylene, polypropylene, or polyvinyl chloride) ∼ 6.4-mm (-in.) to 9.5-mm (-in.) ID to connect the train components.

6.1.4.2 A combination of rigid plastic tubing and thin wall flexible tubing may be used as long as tubing walls do not collapse when leak-checking the train. Metal tubing cannot be used.

6.1.5 Impingers. Three, one-quart capacity, glass canning jars with vacuum seal lids, or three Greenburg-Smith (GS) design impingers connected in series, or equivalent, may be used.

6.1.5.1 One-quart glass canning jar. Three separate jar containers are required: (1) the first jar contains the absorbing solution; (2) the second is empty and is used to collect any reagent carried over from the first container; and (3) the third contains the desiccant drying agent.

6.1.5.2 Canning Jar Connectors. The jar containers are connected by leak-tight inlet and outlet tubes installed in the lids of each container for assembly with the train. The tubes may be made of ∼ 6.4 mm (-in.) ID glass or rigid plastic tubing. For the inlet tube of the first impinger, heat the glass or plastic tubing and draw until the tubing separates. Fabricate the necked tip to form an orifice tip that is approximately 2.4 mm (-in.) ID.

6.1.5.2.1 When assembling the first container, place the orifice tip end of the tube approximately 4.8 mm (-in.) above the inside bottom of the jar.

6.1.5.2.2 For the second container, the inlet tube need not be drawn and sized, but the tip should be approximately 25 mm (1 in.) above the bottom of the jar.

6.1.5.2.3 The inlet tube of the third container should extend to approximately 12.7 mm (-in.) above the bottom of the jar.

6.1.5.2.4 Extend the outlet tube for each container approximately 50 mm (2 in.) above the jar lid and downward through the lid, approximately 12.7 mm (-in.) beneath the bottom of the lid.

6.1.5.3 Greenburg-Smith Impingers. Three separate impingers of the Greenburg-Smith (GS) design as described in Section 6.0 of Method 5 are required. The first GS impinger shall have a standard tip (orifice/plate), and the second and third GS impingers shall be modified by replacing the orifice/plate tube with a 13 mm (-in.) ID glass tube, having an unrestricted opening located 13 mm (-in.) from the bottom of the outer flask.

6.1.5.4 Greenburg-Smith Connectors. The GS impingers shall be connected by leak-free ground glass "U" tube connectors or by leak-free non-contaminating flexible tubing. The first impinger shall contain the absorbing solution, the second is empty and the third contains the desiccant drying agent.

6.1.6 Manometer. Inclined/vertical type, or equivalent device, as described in Section 6.2 of Method 2 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).

6.1.7 Critical Orifice. The critical orifice is a small restriction in the sample line that is located upstream of the vacuum pump. The orifice produces a constant sampling flow rate that is approximately 0.021 cubic meters per minute (m/min) or 0.75 cubic feet per minute (cfm).

6.1.7.1 The critical orifice can be constructed by sealing a 2.4-mm (-in.) ID brass tube approximately 14.3 mm (-in.) in length inside a second brass tube that is approximately 8 mm (-in.) ID and 14.3-mm (-in.) in length .

6.1.7.2 Materials other than brass can be used to construct the critical orifice as long as the flow through the sampling train can be maintained at approximately 0.021 cubic meter per minute (0.75) cfm.

6.1.8 Connecting Hardware. Standard pipe and fittings, 9.5-mm (-in.), 6.4-mm (-in.) or 3.2-mm (-in.) ID, may be used to assemble the vacuum pump, dry gas meter and other sampling train components.

6.1.9 Vacuum Gauge. Capable of measuring approximately 760 mm H(30 in. H) vacuum in 25.4 mm H(1 in. H) increments. Locate vacuum gauge between the critical orifice and the vacuum pump.

6.1.10 Pump Oiler. A glass oil reservoir with a wick mounted at the vacuum pump inlet that lubricates the pump vanes. The oiler should be an in-line type and not vented to the atmosphere. See EMTIC Guideline Document No. GD-041.WPD for additional information.

6.1.11 Vacuum Pump. Gast Model 0522-V103-G18DX, or equivalent, capable of delivering at least 1.5 cfm at 15 in. Hvacuum.

6.1.12 Oil Trap/Muffler. An empty glass oil reservoir without wick mounted at the pump outlet to control the pump noise and prevent oil from reaching the dry gas meter.

6.1.13 By-pass Fine Adjust Valve (Optional). Needle valve assembly 6.4-mm (-in.), Whitey 1 RF 4-A, or equivalent, that allows for adjustment of the train vacuum.

6.1.13.1 A fine-adjustment valve is positioned in the optional pump by-pass system that allows the gas flow to recirculate through the pump. This by-pass system allows the tester to control/reduce the maximum leak-check vacuum pressure produced by the pump.

6.1.13.1.1 The tester must conduct the post test leak check at a vacuum equal to or greater than the maximum vacuum encountered during the sampling run.

6.1.13.1.2 The pump by-pass assembly is not required, but is recommended if the tester intends to leak-check the 306A train at the vacuum experienced during a run.

6.1.14 Dry Gas Meter. An Equimeter Model 110 test meter or, equivalent with temperature sensor(s) installed (inlet/outlet) to monitor the meter temperature. If only one temperature sensor is installed, locate the sensor at the outlet side of the meter. The dry gas meter must be capable of measuring the gaseous volume to within +/-2% of the true volume.

6.2 Barometer. Mercury aneroid barometer, or other barometer equivalent, capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within +/-2.5 mm H(0.1 in. H).

6.2.1 A preliminary check of the barometer shall be made against a mercury-in-glass reference barometer or its equivalent.

6.2.2 Tester may elect to obtain the absolute barometric pressure from a nearby National Weather Service station.

6.2.2.1 The station value (which is the absolute barometric pressure) must be adjusted for elevation differences between the weather station and the sampling location. Either subtract 2.5 mm H(0.1 in. H) from the station value per 30 m (100 ft) of elevation increase or add the same for an elevation decrease.

6.2.2.2 If the field barometer cannot be adjusted to agree within 0.1 in. Hof the reference barometric, repair or discard the unit. The barometer pressure measurement shall be recorded on the sampling data sheet.

6.3 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 5, Section 6.2 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A), with the following exceptions:

6.3.1 Probe-Liner and Probe-Nozzle Brushes. Brushes are not necessary for sample recovery. If a probe brush is used, it must be non-metallic.

6.3.2 Wash Bottles. Polyethylene wash bottle, for sample recovery absorbing solution.

6.3.3 Sample Recovery Solution. Use 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCO, whichever is used as the impinger absorbing solution, to replace the acetone.

6.3.4 Sample Storage Containers.

6.3.4.1 Glass Canning Jar. The first canning jar container of the sampling train may serve as the sample shipping container. A new lid and sealing plastic wrap shall be substituted for the container lid assembly.

6.3.4.2 Polyethylene or Glass Containers. Transfer the Greenburg-Smith impinger contents to precleaned polyethylene or glass containers. The samples shall be stored and shipped in 250-mL, 500-mL or 1000-mL polyethylene or glass containers with leak-free, non metal screw caps.

6.3.5 pH Indicator Strip, for CrSamples. pH indicator strips, or equivalent, capable of determining the pH of solutions between the range of 7 and 12, at 0.5 pH increments.

6.3.6 Plastic Storage Containers. Air tight containers to store silica gel.

6.4 Analysis. Same as Method 306, Section 6.3.

7.1 Sampling.

7.1.1 Water. Reagent water that conforms to ASTM Specification D1193 Type II (incorporated by reference see § 63.14). All references to water in the method refer to reagent water unless otherwise specified. It is recommended that water blanks be checked prior to preparing the sampling reagents to ensure that the Cr content is less than three (3) times the anticipated detection limit of the analytical method.

7.1.2 Sodium Hydroxide (NaOH) Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve 4.0 g of sodium hydroxide in 1 liter of water to obtain a pH of approximately 8.5.

7.1.3 Sodium Bicarbonate (NaHCO) Absorbing Solution, 0.1 N. Dissolve approximately 8.5 g of sodium bicarbonate in 1 liter of water to obtain a pH of approximately 8.3.

7.1.4 Chromium Contamination.

7.1.4.1 The absorbing solution shall not exceed the QC criteria noted in Method 306, Section 7.1.1 (&#x2264;3 times the instrument detection limit).

7.1.4.2 When the Crcontent in the field samples exceeds the blank concentration by at least a factor of ten (10), Crblank levels &#x2264;10 times the detection limit will be allowed.

7.1.3 Desiccant. Silica Gel, 6-16 mesh, indicating type. Alternatively, other types of desiccants may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

7.2 Sample Recovery. Same as Method 306, Section 7.2.

7.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis. Same as Method 306, Section 7.3.

7.4 Glassware Cleaning Reagents. Same as Method 306, Section 7.4.

8.1 Sample Collection.

8.1.1 Pretest Preparation.

8.1.1.1 Selection of Measurement Site. Locate the sampling ports as specified in Section 11.0 of Method 1 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).

8.1.1.2 Location of Traverse Points.

8.1.1.2.1 Locate the traverse points as specified in Section 11.0 of Method 1 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A). Use a total of 24 sampling points for round ducts and 24 or 25 points for rectangular ducts. Mark the pitot and sampling probe to identify the sample traversing points.

8.1.1.2.2 For round ducts less than 12 inches in diameter, use a total of 16 points.

8.1.1.3 Velocity Pressure Traverse. Perform an initial velocity traverse before obtaining samples. The Figure 306A-2 data sheet may be used to record velocity traverse data.

8.1.1.3.1 To demonstrate that the flow rate is constant over several days of testing, perform complete traverses at the beginning and end of each day's test effort, and calculate the deviation of the flow rate for each daily period. The beginning and end flow rates are considered constant if the deviation does not exceed 10 percent. If the flow rate exceeds the 10 percent criteria, either correct the inconsistent flow rate problem, or obtain the Administrator's approval for the test results.

8.1.1.3.2 Perform traverses as specified in Section 8.0 of Method 2, but record only the Δp (velocity pressure) values for each sampling point. If a mass emission rate is desired, stack velocity pressures shall be recorded before and after each test, and an average stack velocity pressure determined for the testing period.

8.1.1.4 Verification of Absence of Cyclonic Flow. Check for cyclonic flow during the initial traverse to verify that it does not exist. Perform the cyclonic flow check as specified in Section 11.4 of Method 1 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).

8.1.1.4.1 If cyclonic flow is present, verify that the absolute average angle of the tangential flow does not exceed 20 degrees. If the average value exceeds 20 degrees at the sampling location, the flow condition in the stack is unacceptable for testing.
