
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### not

10.3.4.1 The Ymeter value may be determined by replacing the sampling train critical orifice with the calibration orifice. Replace the critical orifice assembly by installing the calibration orifice in the same location. The inlet side of the calibration orifice is to be left open to the atmosphere and isto be reconnected to the sample train during the calibration procedure.

10.3.4.2 If the vacuum pump is cold, switch on the pump and allow it to operate (become warm) for several minutes prior to starting the calibration. After stopping the pump, record the initial dry gas meter volume and meter temperature.

10.3.4.3 Perform the calibration for the number of minutes specified by the manufacturer's data sheet (usually 5 minutes). Stop the pump and record the final dry gas meter volume and temperature. Subtract the start volume from the stop volume to obtain the Vand average the meter temperatures (t).

10.3.5 YValue Calculation. Yis the calculated value for the dry gas meter. Calculate Yusing the following equation:

10.3.6 YComparison. Compare the Yvalue provided by the manufacturer (Section 10.3.3) or the pretest Yvalue to the post test Yvalue using the following equation:

10.3.6.1 If this ratio is between 0.95 and 1.05, the designated Yvalue for the meter is acceptable for use in later calculations.

10.3.6.1.1 If the value is outside the specified range, the test series shall either be: 1) voided and the samples discarded; or 2) calculations for the test series shall be conducted using whichever meter coefficient value (i.e., manufacturers's/pretest Yvalue or post test Yvalue) produces the lowest sample volume.

10.3.6.1.2 If the post test dry gas meter Yvalue differs by more than 5% as compared to the pretest value, either perform the calibration again to determine acceptability or return the meter to the manufacturer for recalibration.

10.3.6.1.3 The calibration may also be conducted as specified in Section 10.3 or Section 16.0 of Method 5 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A), except that it is only necessary to check the calibration at one flow rate of ∼ 0.75 cfm.

10.3.6.1.4 The calibration of the dry gas meter must be verified after each field test program using the same procedures.

10.4 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer that has been corrected for temperature and elevation.

10.5 ICP Spectrometer Calibration. Same as Method 306, Section 10.2.

10.6 GFAA Spectrometer Calibration. Same as Method 306, Section 10.3.

10.7 IC/PCR Calibration. Same as Method 306, Section 10.4.

11.1 Analysis. Refer to Method 306 for sample preparation and analysis procedures.

12.1 Calculations. Perform the calculations, retaining one extra decimal point beyond that of the acquired data. When reporting final results, round number of figures consistent with the original data.

12.2 Nomenclature.

12.3 Dilution Factor. The dilution factor is the ratio of the volume of sample aliquot after dilution to the volume before dilution. The dilution factor is usually calculated by the laboratory. This ratio is derived by the following equation:

12.4 Digestion Factor. The digestion factor is the ratio of the volume of sample aliquot after digestion to the volume before digestion. The digestion factor is usually calculated by the laboratory. This ratio is derived by the following equation.

12.5 Total Cr in Sample. Calculate M, the total µg Cr in each sample, using the following equation:

12.6 Dry Gas Volume. Correct the sample volume measured by the dry gas meter to standard conditions (20 &#xB0;C, 760 mm Hg or 68 &#xB0;F, 29.92 in. Hg) using the following equation:

12.7 Cr Emission Concentration (C). Calculate C, the Cr concentration in the stack gas, in µg/dscm (µg/dscf) on a dry basis, corrected to standard conditions, using the following equation:

12.8 Stack Gas Velocity.

12.8.2 Average Stack Gas Velocity.

12.9 Cross sectional area of stack.

12.10 Average Stack Gas Dry Volumetric Flow Rate.

Volumetric Flow Rate Equation:

12.11 Mass emission rate, mg/hr (lb/hr):

13.1 Range. The recommended working range for all of the three analytical techniques starts at five times the analytical detection limit (see also Method 306, Section 13.2.2). The upper limit of all three techniques can be extended indefinitely by appropriate dilution.

13.2 Sensitivity.

13.2.1 Analytical Sensitivity. The estimated instrumental detection limits listed are provided as a guide for an instrumental limit. The actual method detection limits are sample and instrument dependent and may vary as the sample matrix varies.

13.2.1.1 ICP Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum estimated detection limits for ICP, as reported in Method 6010A and the recently revised Method 6010B of SW-846 (Reference 1), are 7.0 µg Cr/L and 4.7 µg Cr/L, respectively.

13.2.1.2 GFAAS Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum estimated detection limit for GFAAS, as reported in Methods 7000A and 7191 of SW-846 (Reference 1), is 1.0 µg Cr/L.

13.2.1.3 IC/PCR Analytical Sensitivity. The minimum detection limit for IC/PCR with a preconcentrator, as reported in Methods 0061 and 7199 of SW-846 (Reference 1), is 0.05 µg Cr/L.

13.2.2 In-stack Sensitivity. The in-stack sensitivity depends upon the analytical detection limit, the volume of stack gas sampled, and the total volume of the impinger absorbing solution plus the rinses. Using the analytical detection limits given in Sections 13.2.1.1, 13.2.1.2, and 13.2.1.3; a stack gas sample volume of 1.7 dscm; and a total liquid sample volume of 500 mL; the corresponding in-stack detection limits are 0.0014 mg Cr/dscm to 0.0021 mg Cr/dscm for ICP, 0.00029 mg Cr/dscm for GFAAS, and 0.000015 mg Cr/dscm for IC/PCR with preconcentration.

13.3 Precision.

13.3.1 The following precision data have been reported for the three analytical methods. In each case, when the sampling precision is combined with the reported analytical precision, the resulting overall precision may decrease.

13.3.2 Bias data is also reported for GFAAS.

13.4 ICP Precision.

13.4.1 As reported in Method 6010B of SW-846 (Reference 1), in an EPA round-robin Phase 1 study, seven laboratories applied the ICP technique to acid/distilled water matrices that had been spiked with various metal concentrates. For true values of 10, 50, and 150 µg Cr/L; the mean reported values were 10, 50, and 149 µg Cr/L; and the mean percent relative standard deviations were 18, 3.3, and 3.8 percent, respectively.

13.4.2 In another multilaboratory study cited in Method 6010B, a mean relative standard of 8.2 percent was reported for an aqueous sample concentration of approximately 3750 µg Cr/L.

13.5 GFAAS Precision. As reported in Method 7191 of SW-846 (Reference 1), in a single laboratory (EMSL), using Cincinnati, Ohio tap water spiked at concentrations of 19, 48, and 77 µg Cr/L, the standard deviations were +/-0.1, +/-0.2, and +/-0.8, respectively. Recoveries at these levels were 97 percent, 101 percent, and 102 percent, respectively.

13.6 IC/PCR Precision. As reported in Methods 0061 and 7199 of SW-846 (Reference 1), the precision of IC/PCR with sample preconcentration is 5 to 10 percent; the overall precision for sewage sludge incinerators emitting 120 ng/dscm of Crand 3.5 µg/dscm of total Cr is 25 percent and 9 percent, respectively; and for hazardous waste incinerators emitting 300 ng/dscm of Crthe precision is 20 percent.

14.1 The only materials used in this method that could be considered pollutants are the chromium standards used for instrument calibration and acids used in the cleaning of the collection and measurement containers/labware, in the preparation of standards, and in the acid digestion of samples. Both reagents can be stored in the same waste container.

14.2 Cleaning solutions containing acids should be prepared in volumes consistent with use to minimize the disposal of excessive volumes of acid.

14.3 To the extent possible, the containers/vessels used to collect and prepare samples should be cleaned and reused to minimize the generation of solid waste.

15.1 It is the responsibility of the laboratory and the sampling team to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the discharge regulations, hazardous waste identification rules, and land disposal restrictions; and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from field operations.

15.2 For further information on waste management, consult The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW, Washington, DC 20036.

1. F.R. Clay, Memo, Impinger Collection Efficiency-Mason Jars vs. Greenburg-Smith Impingers, Dec. 1989.

2. Segall, R.R., W.G. DeWees, F.R. Clay, and J.W. Brown. Development of Screening Methods for Use in Chromium Emissions Measurement and Regulations Enforcement. In: Proceedings of the 1989 EPA/A&WMA International Symposium-Measurement of Toxic and Related Air Pollutants, A&WMA Publication VIP-13, EPA Report No. 600/9-89-060, p. 785.

3. Clay, F.R., Chromium Sampling Method. In: Proceedings of the 1990 EPA/A&WMA International Symposium-Measurement of Toxic and Related Air Pollutants, A&WMA Publication VIP-17, EPA Report No. 600/9-90-026, p. 576.

4. Clay, F.R., Proposed Sampling Method 306A for the Determination of Hexavalent Chromium Emissions from Electroplating and Anodizing Facilities. In: Proceedings of the 1992 EPA/A&WMA International Symposium-Measurement of Toxic and Related Air Pollutants, A&WMA Publication VIP-25, EPA Report No. 600/R-92/131, p. 209.

5. Test Methods for Evaluating Solid Waste, Physical/Chemical Methods, SW-846, Third Edition as amended by Updates I, II, IIA, IIB, and III. Document No. 955-001-000001. Available from Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, DC, November 1986.

1.1 Analyte. Not applicable.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable to all chromium electroplating and chromium anodizing operations, and continuous chromium plating at iron and steel facilities where a wetting agent is used in the tank as the primary mechanism for reducing emissions from the surface of the plating solution.

2.1 During an electroplating or anodizing operation, gas bubbles generated during the process rise to the surface of the liquid and burst. Upon bursting, tiny droplets of chromic acid become entrained in ambient air. The addition of a wetting agent to the tank bath reduces the surface tension of the liquid and diminishes the formation of these droplets.

2.2 This method determines the surface tension of the bath using a stalagmometer or a tensiometer to confirm that there is sufficient wetting agent present.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method may not address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Stalagmometer. Any commercially available stalagmometer or equivalent surface tension measuring device may be used to measure the surface tension of the plating or anodizing tank liquid provided the procedures specified in Section 11.1.2 are followed.

6.2 Tensiometer. A tensiometer may be used to measure the surface tension of the tank liquid provided the procedures specified in ASTM Method D 1331-89, Standard Test Methods for Surface and Interfacial Tension of Solutions of Surface Active Agents (incorporated by reference-see § 63.14) are followed.

11.1 Procedure. The surface tension of the tank bath may be measured using a tensiometer, stalagmometer, or any other equivalent surface tension measuring device for measuring surface tension in dynes per centimeter.

11.1.1 If a tensiometer is used, the procedures specified in ASTM Method D 1331-89 must be followed.

11.1.2 If a stalagmometer is used, the procedures specified in Sections 11.1.2.1 through 11.1.2.3 must be followed.

11.1.2.1 Check the stalagmometer for visual signs of damage. If the stalagmometer appears to be chipped, cracked, or otherwise in disrepair, the instrument shall not be used.

11.1.2.2 Using distilled or deionized water and following the procedures provided by the manufacturer, count the number of drops corresponding to the distilled/deionized water liquid volume between the upper and lower etched marks on the stalagmometer. If the number of drops for the distilled/deionized water is not within +/-1 drop of the number indicated on the instrument, the stalagmometer must be cleaned, using the procedures specified in Section 11.1.3 of this method, before using the instrument to measure the surface tension of the tank liquid.

11.1.2.2.1 If the stalagmometer must be cleaned, as indicated in Section 11.1.2.2, repeat the procedure specified in Section 11.1.2.2 before proceeding.

11.1.2.2.2 If, after cleaning and performing the procedure in Section 11.1.2.2, the number of drops indicated for the distilled/deionized water is not within +/-1 drop of the number indicated on the instrument, either use the number of drops corresponding to the distilled/deionized water volume as the reference number of drops, or replace the instrument.

11.1.2.3 Determine the surface tension of the tank liquid using the procedures specified by the manufacturer of the stalagmometer.
