
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### immediately before

8.1.1.11 Leak-Checks During Sample Run. If, during the sampling run, a component (e.g., jar container) exchange becomes necessary, a leak-check shall be conductedthe component exchange is made. The leak-check shall be performed according to the procedure outlined in Section 8.1.1.10 of this method. If the leakage rate is found to be &#x2264;0.02 cfm at the maximum operating vacuum, the results are acceptable. If, however, a higher leak rate is obtained, either record the leakage rate and correct the sample volume as shown in Section 12.3 of Method 5 or void the sample and initiate a replacement run. Following the component change, leak-checks are optional, but are recommended as are the pretest leak-checks.

8.1.1.12 Post Test Leak Check. Remove the probe assembly and flexible tubing from the first jar/impinger container. Seal the inlet tube of the first container using clear plastic wrap and switch on the pump. The vacuum in the line between the pump and the critical orifice must be ≥15 in. Hg. Record the vacuum gauge measurement along with the leak rate observed on the train system.

8.1.1.12.1 If the leak rate does not exceed 0.02 cfm, the results are acceptable and no sample volume correction is necessary.

8.1.1.12.2 If, however, a higher leak rate is obtained (>0.02 cfm), the tester shall either record the leakage rate and correct the sample volume as shown in Section 12.3 of Method 5, or void the sampling run and initiate a replacement run. After completing the leak-check, slowly release the vacuum at the first container while the pump is still operating. Afterwards, switch-off the pump.

8.1.2 Sample Train Operation.

8.1.2.1 Data Recording. Record all pertinent process and sampling data on the data sheet (see Figure 306A-3). Ensure that the process operation is suitable for sample collection.

8.1.2.2 Starting the Test. Place the probe/nozzle into the duct at the first sampling point and switch on the pump. Start the sampling using the time interval calculated for the first point. When the first point sampling time has been completed, move to the second point and continue to sample for the time interval calculated for that point; sample each point on the traverse in this manner. Maintain ice around the sample containers during the run.

8.1.2.3 Critical Flow. The sample line between the critical orifice and the pump must operate at a vacuum of ≥380 mm Hg (≥15 in. Hg) in order for critical flow to be maintained. This vacuum must be monitored and documented using the vacuum gauge located between the critical orifice and the pump.

8.1.2.4 Completion of Test.

8.1.2.4.1 Circular Stacks. Complete the first port traverse and switch off the pump. Testers may opt to perform a leak-check between the port changes to verify the leak rate however, this is not mandatory. Move the sampling train to the next sampling port and repeat the sequence. Be sure to record the final dry gas meter reading after completing the test run. After performing the post test leak check, disconnect the jar/impinger containers from the pump and meter assembly and transport the probe, connecting tubing, and containers to the sample recovery area.

8.1.2.4.2 Rectangle Stacks. Complete each port traverse as per the instructions provided in 8.1.2.4.1.

8.2 Sample Recovery. After the train has been transferred to the sample recovery area, disconnect the tubing that connects the jar/impingers. The tester shall select either the total Cr or Crsample recovery option. Samples to be analyzed for both total Cr and Crshall be recovered using the Crsample option (Section 8.2.2).

8.2.1 Total Cr Sample Option.

8.2.1.1 Shipping Container No. 1. The first jar container may either be used to store and transport the sample, or if GS impingers are used, samples may be stored and shipped in precleaned 250-mL, 500-mL or 1000-mL polyethylene or glass bottles with leak-free, non-metal screw caps.

8.2.1.1.1 Unscrew the lid from the first jar/impinger container.

8.2.1.1.2 Lift the inner tube assembly almost out of the container, and using the wash bottle containing fresh absorbing solution, rinse the outside of the tube that was immersed in the container solution; rinse the inside of the tube as well, by rinsing twice from the top of the tube down through the inner tube into the container.

8.2.1.2 Recover the contents of the second jar/impinger container by removing the lid and pouring any contents into the first shipping container.

8.2.1.2.1 Rinse twice, using fresh absorbing solution, the inner walls of the second container including the inside and outside of the inner tube.

8.2.1.2.2 Rinse the connecting tubing between the first and second sample containers with absorbing solution and place the rinses into the first container.

8.2.1.3 Position the nozzle, probe and connecting plastic tubing in a vertical position so that the tubing forms a "U".

8.2.1.3.1 Using the wash bottle, partially fill the tubing with fresh absorbing solution. Raise and lower the end of the plastic tubing several times to allow the solution to contact the internal surfaces. Do not allow the solution to overflow or part of the sample will be lost. Place the nozzle end of the probe over the mouth of the first container and elevate the plastic tubing so that the solution flows into the sample container.

8.2.1.3.2 Repeat the probe/tubing sample recovery procedure but allow the solution to flow out the opposite end of the plastic tubing into the sample container. Repeat the entire sample recovery procedure once again.

8.2.1.4 Use approximately 200 to 300 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOabsorbing solution during the rinsing of the probe nozzle, probe liner, sample containers, and connecting tubing.

8.2.1.5 Place a piece of clear plastic wrap over the mouth of the sample jar to seal the shipping container. Use a standard lid and band assembly to seal and secure the sample in the jar.

8.2.1.5.1 Label the jar clearly to identify its contents, sample number and date.

8.2.1.5.2 Mark the height of the liquid level on the container to identify any losses during shipping and handling.

8.2.1.5.3 Prepare a chain-of-custody sheet to accompany the sample to the laboratory.

8.2.2 CrSample Option.

8.2.2.1 Shipping Container No. 1. The first jar container may either be used to store and transport the sample, or if GS impingers are used, samples may be stored and shipped in precleaned 250-mL, 500-mL or 1000-mL polyethylene or glass bottles with leak-free non-metal screw caps.

8.2.2.1.1 Unscrew and remove the lid from the first jar container.

8.2.2.1.2 Measure and record the pH of the solution in the first container by using a pH indicator strip. The pH of the solution must be ≥8.5 for NaOH and ≥8.0 for NaHCO. If not, discard the collected sample, increase the concentration of the NaOH or NaHCO3 absorbing solution to 0.5 M and collect another air emission sample.

8.2.2.2 After measuring the pH of the first container, follow sample recovery procedures described in Sections 8.2.1.1 through 8.2.1.5.

8.2.3 Silica Gel Container. Observe the color of the indicating silica gel to determine if it has been completely spent and make a notation of its condition/color on the field data sheet. Do not use water or other liquids to remove and transfer the silica gel.

8.2.4 Total Cr and/or CrReagent Blank.

8.2.4.1 Shipping Container No. 2. Place approximately 500 mL of the 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOabsorbing solution in a precleaned, labeled sample container and include with the field samples for analysis.

8.3 Sample Preservation, Storage, and Transport.

8.3.1 Total Cr Option. Samples that are to be analyzed for total Cr need not be refrigerated.

8.3.2 CrOption. Samples that are to be analyzed for Crmust be shipped and stored at 4 &#xB0;C (∼40 &#xB0;F).

8.4 Sample Holding Times.

8.4.1 Total Cr Option. Samples that are to be analyzed for total chromium must be analyzed within 60 days of collection.

8.4.2 CrOption. Samples that are to be analyzed for Crmust be analyzed within 14 days of collection.

9.1 Same as Method 306, Section 9.0.

10.1 Pitot Tube. The Type S pitot tube assembly shall be calibrated according to the procedures outlined in Section 10.1 of Method 2.

10.2 Temperature Sensor. Use the procedure in Section 10.3 of Method 2 to calibrate the in-stack temperature sensor.

10.3 Metering System.

10.3.1 Sample Train Dry Gas Meter Calibration. Calibrations may be performed as described in Section 16.2 of Method 5 by either the manufacturer, a firm who provides calibration services, or the tester.

10.3.2 Dry Gas Meter Calibration Coefficient (Y). The meter calibration coefficient (Y) must be determined prior to the initial use of the meter, and following each field test program. If the dry gas meter is new, the manufacturer will have specified the Yvalue for the meter. This Yvalue can be used as the pretest value for the first test. For subsequent tests, the tester must use the Yvalue established during the pretest calibration.

10.3.3 Calibration Orifice. The manufacturer may have included a calibration orifice and a summary spreadsheet with the meter that may be used for calibration purposes. The spreadsheet will provide data necessary to determine the calibration for the orifice and meter (standard cubic feet volume, sample time, etc.). These data were produced when the initial Yvalue was determined for the meter.

10.3.4 YMeter Value Verification or Meter Calibration.
