
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### 5

4. Yu, K.K. "Evaluation of Moisture Effect on Dry Gas Meter Calibration." Source Evaluation Society Newsletter.(1) :24-28. February 1980.

5. NIOSH Manual of Analytical Methods, Volume 2. U.S. Department of Health and Human Services National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health. Center for Disease Control. 4676 Columbia Parkway, Cincinnati, OH 45226. (available from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402.)

6. Pinkerton, J.E. "Method for Measuring Methanol in Pulp Mill Vent Gases." National Council of the Pulp and Paper Industry for Air and Stream Improvement, Inc., New York, NY.

1.1 This method is used to analyze any crumb rubber or water samples for residual hexane content.

1.2 The sample is heated in a sealed bottle with an internal standard and the vapor is analyzed by gas chromatography.

2.1 This method, utilizing a capillary column gas chromatograph with a flame ionization detector, determines the concentration of residual hexane in rubber crumb samples.

3.1 The definitions are included in the text as needed.

4.1 There are no known interferences.

5.1 It is the responsibility of the user of this procedure to establish safety and health practices applicable to their specific operation.

6.1 Gas Chromatograph with a flame ionization detector and data handling station equipped with a capillary column 30 meters long.

6.2 Chromatograph conditions for Sigma 1:

6.2.1 Helium pressure: 50# inlet A, 14# aux

6.2.2 Carrier flow: 25 cc/min

6.2.3 Range switch: 100x

6.2.4 DB: 1 capillary column

6.3 Chromatograph conditions for Hewlett-Packard GC:

6.3.1 Initial temperature: 40 &#xB0;C

6.3.2 Initial time: 8 min

6.3.3 Rate: 0

6.3.4 Range: 2

6.3.5 DB: 1705 capillary column

6.4 Septum bottles and stoppers

6.5 Gas Syringe-0.5 cc

7.1 Chloroform, 99.9 + %, A.S.C. HPLC grade

8.1 A representative sample should be caught in a clean 8 oz. container with a secure lid.

8.2 The container should be labeled with sample identification, date and time.

9.1 The instrument is calibrated by injecting calibration solution (Section 10.2 of this method) five times.

9.2 The retention time for components of interest and relative response of monomer to the internal standard is determined.

9.3 Recovery efficiency must be determined once for each sample type and whenever modifications are made to the method.

9.3.1 Determine the percent hexane in three separate dried rubber crumb samples.

9.3.2 Weigh a portion of each crumb sample into separate sample bottles and add a known amount of hexane (10 microliters) by microliter syringe and 20 microliters of internal standard. Analyze each by the described procedure and calculate the percent recovery of the known added hexane.

9.3.3 Repeat the previous step using twice the hexane level (20 microliters), analyze and calculate the percent recovery of the known added hexane.

9.3.4 Set up two additional sets of samples using 10 microliters and 20 microliters of hexane as before, but add an amount of water equal to the dry crumb used. Analyze and calculate percent recovery to show the effect of free water on the results obtained.

9.3.5 A value of R between 0.70 and 1.30 is acceptable.

9.3.6 R shall be used to correct all reported results for each compound by dividing the measured results of each compound by the R for that compound for the same sample type.
