
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Not required.

8.1.1.5 Stack Gas Moisture Measurements.Measuring the moisture content is optional when a mass emission rate is to be calculated.

8.1.1.5.1 The tester may elect to either measure the actual stack gas moisture during the sampling run or utilize a nominal moisture value of 2 percent.

8.1.1.5.2 For additional information on determining sampling train moisture, please refer to Method 4 (40 CFR Part 60, Appendix A).

8.1.1.6 Stack Temperature Measurements. If a mass emission rate is to be calculated, a temperature sensor must be placed either near the center of the stack, or attached to the pitot tube as described in Section 8.3 of Method 2. Stack temperature measurements, shall be recorded before and after each test, and an average stack temperature determined for the testing period.

8.1.1.7 Point Sampling Times. Since the sampling rate of the train (0.75 cfm) is maintained constant by the critical orifice, it is necessary to calculate specific sampling times for each traverse point in order to obtain a proportional sample.

8.1.1.7.1 If the sampling period (3 runs) is to be completed in a single day, the point sampling times shall be calculated only once.

8.1.1.7.2 If the sampling period is to occur over several days, the sampling times must be calculated daily using the initial velocity pressure data recorded for that day. Determine the average of the Δp values obtained during the velocity traverse (Figure 306A-2).

8.1.1.7.3 If the stack diameter is less than 12 inches, use 7.5 minutes in place of 5 minutes in the equation and 16 sampling points instead of 24 or 25 points. Calculate the sampling times for each traverse point using the following equation:

8.1.1.8 Pretest Preparation. It is recommended, but not required, that all items which will be in contact with the sample be cleaned prior to performing the testing to avoid possible sample contamination (positive chromium bias). These items include, but are not limited to: Sampling probe, connecting tubing, impingers, and jar containers.

8.1.1.8.1 Sample train components should be: (1) Rinsed with hot tap water; (2) washed with hot soapy water; (3) rinsed with tap water; (4) rinsed with reagent water; (5) soaked in a 10 percent (v/v) nitric acid solution for at least four hours; and (6) rinsed throughly with reagent water before use.

8.1.1.8.2 At a minimum, the tester should, rinse the probe, connecting tubing, and first and second impingers twice with either 0.1 N sodium hydroxide (NaOH) or 0.1 N sodium bicarbonate (NaHCO) and discard the rinse solution.

8.1.1.8.3 If separate sample shipping containers are to be used, these also should be precleaned using the specified cleaning procedures.

8.1.1.9 Preparation of Sampling Train. Assemble the sampling train as shown in Figure 306A-1. Secure the nozzle-liner assembly to the outer sheath to prevent movement when sampling.

8.1.1.9.1 Place 250 mL of 0.1 N NaOH or 0.1 N NaHCOabsorbing solution into the first jar container or impinger. The second jar/impinger is to remain empty. Place 6 to 16 mesh indicating silica gel, or equivalent desiccant into the third jar/impinger until the container is half full (∼ 300 to 400 g).

8.1.1.9.2 Place a small cotton ball in the outlet exit tube of the third jar to collect small silica gel particles that may dislodge and impair the pump and/or gas meter.

8.1.1.10 Pretest Leak-Check. A pretest leak-check is recommended, but not required. If the tester opts to conduct the pretest leak-check, the following procedures shall be performed: (1) Place the jar/impinger containers into an ice bath and wait 10 minutes for the ice to cool the containers before performing the leak check and/or start sampling; (2) to perform the leak check, seal the nozzle using a piece of clear plastic wrap placed over the end of a finger and switch on the pump; and (3) the train system leak rate should not exceed 0.02 cfm at a vacuum of 380 mm Hg (15 in. Hg) or greater. If the leak rate does exceed the 0.02 cfm requirement, identify and repair the leak area and perform the leak check again.
