
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

Temporarily attach a suitable (0- to 40-ml/min) rotameter to the outlet of the DGM, and place a vacuum gauge at or near the probe inlet. Plug the probe inlet, pull a vacuum of at least 250 mm (10 inch) Hg or the highest vacuum experienced during the sampling run, and note the flow rate as indicated by the rotameter. A leakage rate in excess of 2 percent of the average sampling rate is acceptable.

8.1.3 Sample Collection. Record the initial DGM reading and barometric pressure. To begin sampling, position the tip of the Teflon &#xAE; tubing at the sampling point, connect the tubing to the impinger, and start the pump. Adjust the sample flow to a constant rate between 200 and 1000 ml/min as indicated by the rotameter. Maintain this constant rate (+/-10 percent) during the entire sampling run. Take readings (DGM, temperatures at DGM and at impinger outlet, and rate meter) at least every 5 minutes. Add more ice during the run to keep the temperature of the gases leaving the last impinger at 20 &#xB0;C (68 &#xB0;F) or less. At the conclusion of each run, turn off the pump, remove the Teflon &#xAE; tubing from the stack, and record the final readings. Conduct a leak check as in section 8.1.2. (This leak check is mandatory.) If a leak is found, void the test run or use procedures acceptable to the Administrator to adjust the sample volume for the leakage.

8.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

8.2.1 Impinger. Disconnect the impinger. Pour the contents of the midget impinger into a graduated cylinder. Rinse the midget impinger and the connecting tubes with water, and add the rinses to the graduated cylinder. Record the sample volume. Transfer the sample to a glass vial and cap with a Teflon &#xAE; septum. Discard any excess sample. Place the samples in an ice chest for shipment to the laboratory.

8.2.2. Adsorbent Tubes. Seal the silica gel adsorbent tubes and place them in an ice chest for shipment to the laboratory.

9.1 Miscellaneous Quality Control Measures. The following quality control measures are required:

10.1 Metering System. The following items are required for the metering system:

10.1.1 Initial Calibration.

10.1.1.1 Before its initial use in the field, first leak-check the metering system (drying tube, needle valve, pump, rotameter, and DGM) as follows: Place a vacuum gauge at the inlet to the drying tube, and pull a vacuum of 250 mm (10 inch) Hg; plug or pinch off the outlet of the flow meter, and then turn off the pump. The vacuum shall remain stable for at least 30 seconds. Carefully release the vacuum gauge before releasing the flow meter end.

10.1.1.2 Next, remove the drying tube, and calibrate the metering system (at the sampling flow rate specified by the method) as follows: Connect an appropriately sized wet test meter (e.g., 1 liter per revolution (0.035 cubic feet per revolution)) to the inlet of the drying tube. Make three independent calibrations runs, using at least five revolutions of the DGM per run. Calculate the calibration factor, Y (wet test meter calibration volume divided by the DGM volume, both volumes adjusted to the same reference temperature and pressure), for each run, and average the results. If any Y-value deviates by more than 2 percent from the average, the metering system is unacceptable for use. Otherwise, use the average as the calibration factor for subsequent test runs.

10.1.2 Posttest Calibration Check. After each field test series, conduct a calibration check as in section 10.1.1 above, except for the following variations: (a) The leak check is not to be conducted, (b) three, or more revolutions of the DGM may be used, and (c) only two independent runs need be made. If the calibration factor does not deviate by more than 5 percent from the initial calibration factor (determined in section 10.1.1), then the DGM volumes obtained during the test series are acceptable. If the calibration factor deviates by more than 5 percent, recalibrate the metering system as in section 10.1.1, and for the calculations, use the calibration factor (initial or recalibration) that yields the lower gas volume for each test run.

10.1.3 Temperature Sensors. Calibrate against mercury-in-glass thermometers. An alternative mercury-free thermometer may be used if the thermometer is, at a minimum, equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

10.1.4 Rotameter. The rotameter need not be calibrated, but should be cleaned and maintained according to the manufacturer's instruction.

10.1.5 Barometer. Calibrate against a mercury barometer.

10.2 Gas Chromatograph. The following procedures are required for the gas chromatograph:

10.2.1 Initial Calibration. Inject 1 µl of each of the standards prepared in sections 7.2.3.3 and 7.2.3.4 into the GC and record the response. Repeat the injections for each standard until two successive injections agree within 5 percent. Using the mean response for each calibration standard, prepare a linear least squares equation relating the response to the mass of methanol in the sample. Perform the calibration before analyzing each set of samples.

10.2.2 Continuing Calibration. At the beginning of each day, analyze the mid level calibration standard as described in section 10.5.1. The response from the daily analysis must agree with the response from the initial calibration within 10 percent. If it does not, the initial calibration must be repeated.

11.1 Gas Chromatograph Operating Conditions. The following operating conditions are required for the GC:

11.1.1 Injector. Configured for capillary column, splitless, 200 &#xB0;C (392 &#xB0;F).

11.1.2 Carrier. Helium at 10 ml/min.

11.1.3 Oven. Initially at 45 &#xB0;C for 3 minutes; then raise by 10 &#xB0;C to 70 &#xB0;C; then raise by 70 &#xB0;C/min to 200 &#xB0;C.

11.2 Impinger Sample. Inject 1 µl of the stored sample into the GC. Repeat the injection and average the results. If the sample response is above that of the highest calibration standard, either dilute the sample until it is in the measurement range of the calibration line or prepare additional calibration standards. If the sample response is below that of the lowest calibration standard, prepare additional calibration standards. If additional calibration standards are prepared, there shall be at least two that bracket the response of the sample. These standards should produce approximately 50 percent and 150 percent of the response of the sample.

11.3 Silica Gel Adsorbent Sample. The following items are required for the silica gel adsorbent samples:

11.3.1 Preparation of Samples. Extract the front and backup sections of the adsorbent tube separately. With a file, score the glass adsorbent tube in front of the first section of silica gel. Break the tube open. Remove and discard the glass wool. Transfer the first section of the silica gel to a 5-ml glass vial and stopper the vial. Remove the spacer between the first and second section of the adsorbent tube and discard it. Transfer the second section of silica gel to a separate 5-ml glass vial and stopper the vial.

11.3.2 Desorption of Samples. Add 3 ml of deionized distilled water to each of the stoppered vials and shake or vibrate the vials for 30 minutes.

11.3.3 Inject a 1-µl aliquot of the diluted sample from each vial into the GC. Repeat the injection and average the results. If the sample response is above that of the highest calibration standard, either dilute the sample until it is in the measurement range of the calibration line or prepare additional calibration standards. If the sample response is below that of the lowest calibration standard, prepare additional calibration standards. If additional calibration standards are prepared, there shall be at least two that bracket the response of the sample. These standards should produce approximately 50 percent and 150 percent of the response of the sample.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Mass of Methanol. Calculate the total mass of methanol collected in the sampling train using Equation 308-1.

12.3 Dry Sample Gas Volume, Corrected to Standard Conditions. Calculate the volume of gas sampled at standard conditions using Equation 308-2.

12.4 Mass Emission Rate of Methanol. Calculate the mass emission rate of methanol using Equation 308-3.

12.5 Recovery Fraction (R)

Since a potential sample may contain a variety of compounds from various sources, a specific precision limit for the analysis of field samples is impractical. Precision in the range of 5 to 10 percent relative standard deviation (RSD) is typical for gas chromatographic techniques, but an experienced GC operator with a reliable instrument can readily achieve 5 percent RSD. For this method, the following combined GC/operator values are required.

(a) Precision. Calibration standards must meet the requirements in section 10.2.1 or 10.2.2 as applicable.

(b) Recovery. After developing an appropriate sampling and analytical system for the pollutants of interest, conduct the following spike recovery procedure at each sampling point where the method is being applied.

i. Methanol Spike. Set up two identical sampling trains. Collocate the two sampling probes in the stack. The probes shall be placed in the same horizontal plane, where the first probe tip is 2.5 cm from the outside edge of the other. One of the sampling trains shall be designated the spiked train and the other the unspiked train. Spike methanol into the impinger, and onto the adsorbent tube in the spiked train prior to sampling. The total mass of methanol shall be 40 to 60 percent of the mass expected to be collected with the unspiked train. Sample the stack gas into the two trains simultaneously. Analyze the impingers and adsorbents from the two trains utilizing identical analytical procedures and instrumentation. Determine the fraction of spiked methanol recovered (R) by combining the amount recovered in the impinger and in the adsorbent tube, using the equations in section 12.5. Recovery values must fall in the range: 0.70 &#x2264; R &#x2264; 1.30. Report the R value in the test report.

ii. [Reserved]

1. Rom, J.J. "Maintenance, Calibration, and Operation of Isokinetic Source Sampling Equipment." Office of Air Programs, Environmental Protection Agency. Research Triangle Park, NC. APTD-0576 March 1972.

2. Annual Book of ASTM Standards. Part 31; Water, Atmospheric Analysis. American Society for Testing and Materials. Philadelphia, PA. 1974. pp. 40-42.
