
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### total

10.1 Calibrate the chromatograph using a standard made by injecting 10 µl of fresh hexane and 20 µl of chloroform into a sealed septum bottle. This standard will be 0.6 wt.%hexane based on 1 gram of dry rubber.

10.2 Analyze the hexane used and calculate the percentage of each hexane isomer (2-methylpentane, 3-methylpentane, n-hexane, and methylcyclo-pentane). Enter these percentages into the method calibration table.

10.3 Heat the standard bottle for 30 minutes in a 105 &#xB0;C oven.

10.4 Inject about 0.25 cc of vapor into the gas chromatograph and after the analysis is finished, calibrate according to the procedures described by the instrument manufacturer.

11.1 Using a cold mill set at a wide roller gap (125-150 mm), mill about 250 grams of crumb two times to homogenize the sample.

11.2 Weigh about 2 grams of wet crumb into a septum bottle and cap with a septum ring. Add 20 µl of chloroform with a syringe and place in a 105 &#xB0;C oven for 45 minutes.

11.3 Run the moisture content on a separate portion of the sample and calculate the grams of dry rubber put into the septum bottle.

11.4 Set up the data station on the required method and enter the dry rubber weight in the sample weight field.

11.5 Inject a 0.25 cc vapor sample into the chromatograph and push the start button.

11.6 At the end of the analysis, the data station will print a report listing the concentration of each identified component.

11.7 To analyze water samples, pipet 5 ml of sample into the septum bottle, cap and add 20 µl of chloroform. Place in a 105 &#xB0;C oven for 30 minutes.

11.8 Enter 5 grams into the sample weight field.

11.9 Inject a 0.25 cc vapor sample into the chromatograph and push the start button.

11.10 At the end of the analysis, the data station will print a report listing the concentration of each identified component.

12.1 For samples that are prepared as in section 11 of this method, ppm n-hexane is read directly from the computer.

12.2 The formulas for calculation of the results are as follows:

12.3 Correct the results by the value of R (as determined in sections 9.3.4, 9.3.5, and 9.3.6 of this method).

13.1 The test has a standard deviation of 0.14 wt% at 0.66 wt% hexane. Spike recovery of 12 samples at two levels of hexane averaged 102.3%. Note: Recovery must be determined for each type of sample. The values given here are meant to be examples of method performance.

14.1 Waste generation should be minimized where possible. Sample size should be an amount necessary to adequately run the analysis.

15.1 All waste shall be handled in accordance with federal and state environmental regulations.

16.1 DSM Copolymer Test Method T-3380.

1.1 Data Quality Objectives:

In the production of ethylene-propylene terpolymer crumb rubber, the polymer is recovered from solution by flashing off the solvent with steam and hot water. The resulting water-crumb slurry is then pumped to the finishing units. Certain amounts of solvent (hexane being the most commonly used solvent) and diene monomer remain in the crumb. The analyst uses the following procedure to determine those amounts.

2.1 The crumb rubber sample is dissolved in toluene to which heptane has been added as an internal standard. Acetone is then added to this solution to precipitate the crumb, and the supernatant is analyzed for hexane and diene by a gas chromatograph equipped with a flame ionization detector (FID).

3.1 Included in text as needed.

4.1 None known.

4.2 Benzene, introduced as a contaminant in the toluene solvent, elutes between methyl cyclopentane and cyclohexane. However, the benzene peak is completely resolved.

4.3 2,2-dimethyl pentane, a minor component of the hexane used in our process, elutes just prior to methyl cyclopentane. It is included as "hexane" in the analysis whether it is integrated separately or included in the methyl cyclopentane peak.

5.1 This procedure does not purport to address all of the safety concerns associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this procedure to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use.

5.2 Chemicals used in this analysis are flammable and hazardous (see specific toxicity information below). Avoid contact with sources of ignition during sample prep. All handling should be done beneath a hood. Playtex or nitrile gloves recommended.

5.3 Hexane is toxic by ingestion and inhalation. Vapor inhalation causes irritation of nasal and respiratory passages, headache, dizziness, nausea, central nervous system depression. Chronic overexposure can cause severe nerve damage. May cause irritation on contact with skin or eyes. May cause damage to kidneys.

5.4 Termonomer may be harmful by inhalation, ingestion, or skin absorption. Vapor or mist is irritating to the eyes, mucous membranes, and upper respiratory tract. Causes skin irritation.

5.5 Toluene is harmful or fatal if swallowed. Vapor harmful if inhaled. Symptoms: headache, dizziness, hallucinations, distorted perceptions, changes in motor activity, nausea, diarrhea, respiratory irritation, central nervous system depression, unconsciousness, liver, kidney and lung damage. Contact can cause severe eye irritation. May cause skin irritation. Causes irritation of eyes, nose, and throat.

5.6 Acetone, at high concentrations or prolonged overexposure, may cause headache, dizziness, irritation of eyes and respiratory tract, loss of strength, and narcosis. Eye contact causes severe irritation; skin contact may cause mild irritation. Concentrations of 20,000 ppm are immediately dangerous to life and health.

5.7 Heptane is harmful if inhaled or swallowed. May be harmful if absorbed through the skin. Vapor or mist is irritating to the eyes, mucous membranes, and upper respiratory tract. Prolonged or repeated exposure to skin causes defatting and dermatitis.

5.8 The steam oven used to dry the polymer in this procedure is set at 110 &#xB0;C. Wear leather gloves when removing bottles from the oven.

6.1 4000-ml volumetric flask

6.2 100-ml volumetric pipette

6.3 1000-ml volumetric flask

6.4 8-oz. French Square sample bottles with plastic-lined caps

6.5 Top-loading balance

6.6 Laboratory shaker

6.7 Laboratory oven set at 110 &#xB0;C (steam oven)

6.8 Gas chromatograph, Hewlett-Packard 5890A, or equivalent, interfaced with HP 7673A (or equivalent) autosampler (equipped with nanoliter adapter and robotic arm), and HP 3396 series II or 3392A (or equivalent) integrator/controller.

6.9 GC column, capillary type, 50m x 0.53mm, methyl silicone, 5 micron film thickness, Quadrex, or equivalent.

6.10 Computerized data acquisition system, such as CIS/CALS

6.11 Crimp-top sample vials and HP p/n 5181-1211 crimp caps, or screw-top autosampler vials and screw tops.

6.12 Glass syringes, 5-ml, with "Luer-lock" fitting

6.13 Filters, PTFE, .45 µm pore size, Gelman Acrodisc or equivalent, to fit on Luer-lock syringes (in 6.12, above).

7.1 Reagent toluene, EM Science Omnisolv (or equivalent)

Purity Check: Prior to using any bottle of reagent toluene, analyze it according to section 11.2 of this method. Use the bottle only if hexane, heptane, and termonomer peak areas are less than 15 each (note that an area of 15 is equivalent to less than 0.01 wt% in a 10g sample).

7.2 Reagent acetone, EM Science Omnisolv HR-GC (or equivalent)
