
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Stalagmometer cleaning procedures.

11.1.3The procedures specified in Sections 11.1.3.1 through 11.1.3.10 shall be used for cleaning a stalagmometer, as required by Section 11.1.2.2.

11.1.3.1 Set up the stalagmometer on its stand in a fume hood.

11.1.3.2 Place a clean 150 (mL) beaker underneath the stalagmometer and fill the beaker with reagent grade concentrated nitric acid.

11.1.3.3 Immerse the bottom tip of the stalagmometer (approximately 1 centimeter (0.5 inches)) into the beaker.

11.1.3.4 Squeeze the rubber bulb and pinch at the arrow up (1) position to collapse.

11.1.3.5 Place the bulb end securely on top end of stalagmometer and carefully draw the nitric acid by pinching the arrow up (1) position until the level is above the top etched line.

11.1.3.6 Allow the nitric acid to remain in stalagmometer for 5 minutes, then carefully remove the bulb, allowing the acid to completely drain.

11.1.3.7 Fill a clean 150 mL beaker with distilled or deionized water.

11.1.3.8 Using the rubber bulb per the instructions in Sections 11.1.3.4 and 11.1.3.5, rinse and drain stalagmometer with deionized or distilled water.

11.1.3.9 Fill a clean 150 mL beaker with isopropyl alcohol.

11.1.3.10 Again using the rubber bulb per the instructions in Sections 11.1.3.4 and 11.1.3.5, rinse and drain stalagmometer twice with isopropyl alcohol and allow the stalagmometer to dry completely.

11.2 Frequency of Measurements.

11.2.1 Measurements of the bath surface tension are performed using a progressive system which decreases the frequency of surface tension measurements required when the proper surface tension is maintained.

11.2.1.1 Initially, following the compliance date, surface tension measurements must be conducted once every 4 hours of tank operation for the first 40 hours of tank operation.

11.2.1.2 Once there are no exceedances during a period of 40 hours of tank operation, measurements may be conducted once every 8 hours of tank operation.

11.2.1.3 Once there are no exceedances during a second period of 40 consecutive hours of tank operation, measurements may be conducted once every 40 hours of tank operation on an on-going basis, until an exceedance occurs. The maximum time interval for measurements is once every 40 hours of tank operation.

11.2.2 If a measurement of the surface tension of the solution is above the 40 dynes per centimeter limit when measured using a stalagmometer, above 33 dynes per centimeter when measured using a tensiometer, or above an alternate surface tension limit established during the performance test, the time interval shall revert back to the original monitoring schedule of once every 4 hours. A subsequent decrease in frequency would then be allowed according to Section 11.2.1.

12.1 Log Book of Surface Tension Measurements and Fume Suppressant Additions.

12.1.1 The surface tension of the plating or anodizing tank bath must be measured as specified in Section 11.2.

12.1.2 The measurements must be recorded in the log book. In addition to the record of surface tension measurements, the frequency of fume suppressant maintenance additions and the amount of fume suppressant added during each maintenance addition must be recorded in the log book.

12.1.3 The log book will be readily available for inspection by regulatory personnel.

12.2 Instructions for Apparatus Used in Measuring Surface Tension.

12.2.1 Included with the log book must be a copy of the instructions for the apparatus used for measuring the surface tension of the plating or anodizing bath.

12.2.2 If a tensiometer is used, a copy of ASTM Method D 1331-89 must be included with the log book.

1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable to the determination of the halogenated solvent emissions from solvent vapor cleaners in the idling mode.

1.2 Principle. The solvent level in the solvent cleaning machine is measured using inclined liquid level indicators. The change in liquid level corresponds directly to the amount of solvent lost from the solvent cleaning machine.

2.1 Inclined Liquid Level Indicator. A schematic of the inclined liquid level indicators used in this method is shown in figure 307-1; two inclined liquid level indicators having 0.05 centimeters divisions or smaller shall be used. The liquid level indicators shall be made of glass, Teflon, or any similar material that will not react with the solvent being used. A 6-inch by 1-inch slope is recommended; however the slope may vary depending on the size and design of the solvent cleaning machine.

2.2 Horizontal Indicator. Device to check the inclined liquid level indicators orientation relative to horizontal.

2.3 Velocity Meter. Hotwire and vane anemometers, or other devices capable of measuring the flow rates ranging from 0 to 15.2 meters per minute across the solvent cleaning machine.

3.1 Connection of the Inclined Liquid Level Indicator. Connect one of the inclined liquid level indicators to the boiling sump drain and the other inclined liquid level indicator to the immersion sump drain using Teflon tubing and the appropriate fittings. A schematic diagram is shown in figure 307-2.

3.2 Positioning of Velocity Meter. Position the velocity meter so that it measures the flow rate of the air passing directly across the solvent cleaning machine.

3.3 Level the Inclined Liquid Level Indicators.

3.4 Initial Inclined Liquid Level Indicator Readings. Open the sump drainage valves. Allow the solvent cleaning machine to operate long enough for the vapor zone to form and the system to stabilize (check with manufacturer). Record the inclined liquid level indicators readings and the starting time on the data sheet. A sample data sheet is provided in figure 307-3.

3.5 Final Inclined Liquid Level Indicator Readings. At the end of the 16-hour test run, check to make sure the inclined liquid level indicators are level; if not, make the necessary adjustments. Record the final inclined liquid level indicators readings and time.

3.6 Determination of Solvent Vapor/Air Interface Area for Each Sump. Determine the area of the solvent/air interface of the individual sumps. Whenever possible, physically measure these dimensions, rather than using factory specifications. A schematic of the dimensions of a solvent cleaning machine is provided in figure 307-4.

4.1 Nomenclature.

4.2 Area of Sump Interfaces. Calculate the areas of the boiling and immersion sump interfaces as follows:

4.3 Area of Solvent/Air Interface. Calculate the area of the solvent vapor/air interface as follows:

4.4 Emission Rate. Calculate the emission rate as follows:

1.1 Analyte. Methanol. Chemical Abstract Service (CAS) No. 67-56-1.

1.2 Applicability. This method applies to the measurement of methanol emissions from specified stationary sources.

A gas sample is extracted from the sampling point in the stack. The methanol is collected in deionized distilled water and adsorbed on silica gel. The sample is returned to the laboratory where the methanol in the water fraction is separated from other organic compounds with a gas chromatograph (GC) and is then measured by a flame ionization detector (FID). The fraction adsorbed on silica gel is extracted with deionized distilled water and is then separated and measured by GC/FID.

5.1 Disclaimer. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before performing this test method.

5.2 Methanol Characteristics. Methanol is flammable and a dangerous fire and explosion risk. It is moderately toxic by ingestion and inhalation.

6.1 Sample Collection. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling Train. The sampling train is shown in Figure 308-1 and component parts are discussed below.

6.1.1.1 Probe. Teflon &#xAE;, approximately 6-millimeter (mm) (0.24 inch) outside diameter.

6.1.1.2 Impinger. A 30-milliliter (ml) midget impinger. The impinger must be connected with leak-free glass connectors. Silicone grease may not be used to lubricate the connectors.

6.1.1.3 Adsorbent Tube. Glass tubes packed with the required amount of the specified adsorbent.

6.1.1.4 Valve. Needle valve, to regulate sample gas flow rate.

6.1.1.5 Pump. Leak-free diaphragm pump, or equivalent, to pull gas through the sampling train. Install a small surge tank between the pump and rate meter to eliminate the pulsation effect of the diaphragm pump on the rotameter.

6.1.1.6 Rate Meter. Rotameter, or equivalent, capable of measuring flow rate to within 2 percent of the selected flow rate of up to 1000 milliliter per minute (ml/min). Alternatively, the tester may use a critical orifice to set the flow rate.

6.1.1.7 Volume Meter. Dry gas meter (DGM), sufficiently accurate to measure the sample volume to within 2 percent, calibrated at the selected flow rate and conditions actually encountered during sampling, and equipped with a temperature sensor (dial thermometer, or equivalent) capable of measuring temperature accurately to within 3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F).

6.1.1.8 Barometer. Mercury (Hg), aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm (0.1 inch) Hg. See the NOTE in Method 5 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A), section 6.1.2.

6.1.1.9 Vacuum Gauge and Rotameter. At least 760-mm (30-inch) Hg gauge and 0- to 40-ml/min rotameter, to be used for leak-check of the sampling train.

6.2 Sample Recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Wash Bottles. Polyethylene or glass, 500-ml, two.

6.2.2 Sample Vials. Glass, 40-ml, with Teflon &#xAE;-lined septa, to store impinger samples (one per sample).

6.2.3 Graduated Cylinder. 100-ml size.

6.3 Analysis. The following are required for analysis:

6.3.1 Gas Chromatograph. GC with an FID, programmable temperature control, and heated liquid injection port.

6.3.2 Pump. Capable of pumping 100 ml/min. For flushing sample loop.

6.3.3 Flow Meter. To monitor accurately sample loop flow rate of 100 ml/min.

6.3.4 Regulators. Two-stage regulators used on gas cylinders for GC and for cylinder standards.

6.3.5 Recorder. To record, integrate, and store chromatograms.

6.3.6 Syringes. 1.0- and 10-microliter (l) size, calibrated, for injecting samples.

6.3.7 Tubing Fittings. Stainless steel, to plumb GC and gas cylinders.

6.3.8 Vials. Two 5.0-ml glass vials with screw caps fitted with Teflon &#xAE;-lined septa for each sample.

6.3.9 Pipettes. Volumetric type, assorted sizes for preparing calibration standards.

6.3.10 Volumetric Flasks. Assorted sizes for preparing calibration standards.

6.3.11 Vials. Glass 40-ml with Teflon &#xAE;-lined septa, to store calibration standards (one per standard).

7.1 Sampling. The following are required for sampling:

7.1.1 Water. Deionized distilled to conform to the American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) Specification D 1193-77, Type 3. At the option of the analyst, the potassium permanganate (KMnO) test for oxidizable organic matter may be omitted when high concentrations of organic matter are not expected to be present.

7.1.2 Silica Gel. Deactivated chromatographic grade 20/40 mesh silica gel packed in glass adsorbent tubes. The silica gel is packed in two sections. The front section contains 520 milligrams (mg) of silica gel, and the back section contains 260 mg.

7.2 Analysis. The following are required for analysis:

7.2.1 Water. Same as specified in section 7.1.1.

7.2.2 [Reserved]

7.2.3 Methanol Stock Standard. Prepare a methanol stock standard by weighing 1 gram of methanol into a 100-ml volumetric flask. Dilute to 100 ml with water.

7.2.3.1 Methanol Working Standard. Prepare a methanol working standard by pipetting 1 ml of the methanol stock standard into a 100-ml volumetric flask. Dilute the solution to 100 ml with water.

7.2.3.2 Methanol Standards For Impinger Samples. Prepare a series of methanol standards by pipetting 1, 2, 5, 10, and 25 ml of methanol working standard solution respectively into five 50-ml volumetric flasks. Dilute the solutions to 50 ml with water. These standards will have 2, 4, 10, 20, and 50 µg/ml of methanol, respectively. After preparation, transfer the solutions to 40-ml glass vials capped with Teflon &#xAE; septa and store the vials under refrigeration. Discard any excess solution.

7.2.3.3 Methanol Standards for Adsorbent Tube Samples. Prepare a series of methanol standards by first pipetting 10 ml of the methanol working standard into a 100-ml volumetric flask and diluting the contents to exactly 100 ml with deionized distilled water. This standard will contain 10 µg/ml of methanol. Pipette 5, 15, and 25 ml of this standard, respectively, into three 50-ml volumetric flasks. Dilute each solution to 50 ml with deionized distilled water. These standards will have 1, 3, and 5 µg/ml of methanol, respectively. Transfer all four standards into 40-ml glass vials capped with Teflon&#xAE;-lined septa and store under refrigeration. Discard any excess solution.

7.2.4 GC Column. Capillary column, 30 meters (100 feet) long with an inside diameter (ID) of 0.53 mm (0.02 inch), coated with DB 624 to a film thickness of 3.0 micrometers, (µm) or an equivalent column. Alternatively, a 30-meter capillary column coated with polyethylene glycol to a film thickness of 1 µm such as AT-WAX or its equivalent.

7.2.5 Helium. Ultra high purity.

7.2.6 Hydrogen. Zero grade.

7.2.7 Oxygen. Zero grade.

8.1 Sampling. The following items are required for sampling:

8.1.1 Preparation of Collection Train. Measure 20 ml of water into the midget impinger. The adsorbent tube must contain 520 mg of silica gel in the front section and 260 mg of silica gel in the backup section. Assemble the train as shown in Figure 308-1. An optional, second impinger that is left empty may be placed in front of the water-containing impinger to act as a condensate trap. Place crushed ice and water around the impinger.

8.1.2 Leak Check. A leak check before and after the sampling run is mandatory. The leak-check procedure is as follows:
