
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### less

10.2.2.4 Using the RRF's from the calibration, calculate the percent relative standard deviation (percent RSD) for each analyte in the calibration standard using Equation 7, Section 12. The percent RSD for each individual calibration analyte must bethan 15 percent. This criterion must be met in order for the calibration to be valid. If the criterion is met, the mean RRF's determined above are to be used until the next calibration.

10.3 Daily Calibration Checks. The calibration curve (Section 10.2.2) must be checked and verified at least once each day that samples are analyzed. This is accomplished by analyzing a calibration standard that is at a concentration near the midpoint of the working range and performing the checks in Sections 10.3.1, 10.3.2, and 10.3.3.

10.3.1 For each analyte in the calibration standard, calculate the percent difference in the RRF from the last calibration using Equation 8, Section 12. If the percent difference for each calibration analyte is less than 10 percent, the last calibration curve is assumed to be valid. If the percent difference for any analyte is greater than 5 percent, the analyst should consider this a warning limit. If the percent difference for any one calibration analyte exceeds 10 percent, corrective action must be taken. If no source of the problem can be determined after corrective action has been taken, a new three-point (minimum) calibration must be generated. This criterion must be met before quantitative analysis begins.

10.3.2 If the RFfor the internal standard changes by more than +/-20 percent from the last daily calibration check, the system must be inspected for malfunctions and corrections made as appropriate.

10.3.3 The retention times for the internal standard and all calibration check analytes must be evaluated. If the retention time for the internal standard or for any calibration check analyte changes by more than 0.10 min from the last calibration, the system must be inspected for malfunctions and corrections made as required.

11.1 All samples and standards must be allowed to warm to room temperature before analysis. Observe the given order of ingredient addition to minimize loss of volatiles.

11.2 Bring the GC system to the determined operating conditions and condition the column as described in Section 10.1.

11.3 Perform the daily calibration checks as described in Section 10.3. Samples are not to be analyzed until the criteria in Section 10.3 are met.

11.4 Place the as-received coating sample on a paint shaker, or similar device, and shake the sample for a minimum of 5 minutes to achieve homogenization.

11.5The steps in this section must be performed rapidly and without interruption to avoid loss of volatile organics. These steps must be performed in a laboratory hood free from solvent vapors. All weights must be recorded to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.5.1 Add 16 g of dimethylformamide to each of two tared vials (A and B) capable of being septum sealed.

11.5.2 To each vial add a weight of coating that will result in the response for the major constituent being in the upper half of the linear range of the calibration curve.

11.5.3 Add a weight of internal standard to each vial (A and B) that will result in the response for the internal standard being between 25 percent and 75 percent of the linear range of the calibration curve.

11.5.4 Seal the vials with crimp-on or Mininert &#xAE; septum seals.

11.6 Shake the vials containing the prepared coating samples for 60 seconds. Allow the vials to stand undisturbed for ten minutes. If solids have not settled out on the bottom after 10 minutes, then centrifuge at 1,000 rpm for 5 minutes. The analyst also has the option of injecting the sample without allowing the solids to settle.
