
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Before dispensing, "purge" the dispensette (25% of its volume) into a waste bottle to eliminate any voids.

11.1.3 Dispense 100ml of PDS into each bottle. SAMPLE SHOULD BE PLACED INTO SOLUTION ASAP TO AVOID HEXANE LOSS-Using "Dispensette" pipettor.

11.1.4 Tightly cap bottles and load samples into shaker.

11.1.5 Insure that "ON-OFF" switch on the shaker itself is "ON."

11.1.6 Locate shaker timer. Insure that toggle switch atop timer control box is in the middle ("off") position. If display reads "04:00" (4 hours), move toggle switch to the left position. Shaker should begin operating.

11.1.7 After shaker stops, add 100 ml acetone to each sample to precipitate polymer. Shake minimum of 5 minutes on shaker-Vistalon sample may not have fully dissolved; nevertheless, for purposes of consistency, 4 hours is the agreed-upon dissolving time.

11.1.8 Using a 5-ml glass Luer-lock syringe and Acrodisc filter, filter some of the supernatant liquid into an autosampler vial; crimp the vial and load it into the GC autosampler for analysis (section 11.2 of this method)-The samples are filtered to prevent polymer buildup in the GC. Clean the syringes in toluene.

11.1.9 Decant remaining supernatant into a hydrocarbon waste sink, being careful not to discard any of the polymer. Place bottle of precipitate into the steam oven and dry for six hours-Some grades of Vistalon produce very small particles in the precipitate, thus making complete decanting impossible without discarding some polymer. In this case, decant as much as possible and put into the oven as is, allowing the oven to drive off remaining supernatant (this practice is avoided for environmental reasons). WARNING: OVEN IS HOT-110 &#xB0;C (230 &#xB0;F).

11.1.10 Cool, weigh and record final weight of bottle.

11.2 GC ANALYSIS

11.2.1 Initiate the CALS computer channel.

11.2.2 Enter the correct instrument method into the GC's integrator.

11.2.3 Load sample vial(s) into autosampler.

11.2.4 Start the integrator.

11.2.5 When analysis is complete, plot CALS run to check baseline skim.

12.1 Add the concentrations of the hexane peaks as they appear on the CALS printout. Do not include the benzene peak in the sum.

12.2 Subtract any hexane interferences found in the PDS (see section 7.5.6 of this method); record the result.

12.3 Note the termonomer concentration on the CALS printout. Subtract any termonomer interference found in the PDS and record this result in a "% termonomer by GC" column in a logbook.

12.4 Record the area (from CALS printout) of the heptane internal standard peak in a "C7 area" column in the logbook. This helps track instrument performance over the long term.

12.5 After obtaining the final dry weight of polymer used (Section 11.1.10 of this method), record that result in a "dry wt." column of the logbook (for oil extended polymer, the amount of oil extracted is added to the dry rubber weight).

12.6 Divide the %C6 by the dry weight to obtain the total PHR hexane in crumb. Similarly, divide the % termonomer by the dry weight to obtain the total PHR termonomer in crumb. Note that PHR is an abbreviation for "parts per hundred". Record both the hexane and termonomer results in the logbook.

12.7 Correct all results by the recovery efficiency value (R).

13.1 The method has been shown to provide 100% recovery of the hexane analyte. The method was found to give a 6% relative standard deviation when the same six portions of the same sample were carried through the procedure. Note: These values are examples; each sample type, as specified in Section 9.3, must be tested for sample recovery.

14.1 Dispose of all hydrocarbon liquids in the appropriate disposal sink system; never pour hydrocarbons down a water sink.

14.2 As discussed in section 11.1.9 of this method, the analyst can minimize venting hydrocarbon vapor to the atmosphere by decanting as much hydrocarbon liquid as possible before oven drying.

15.1 The Technician conducting the analysis should follow the proper waste management practices for their laboratory location.

16.1 Baton Rouge Chemical Plant Analytical Procedure no. BRCP 1302

16.2 Material Safety Data Sheets (from chemical vendors) for hexane, ENB, toluene, acetone, and heptane

1.1 This method describes a procedure for the determination of residual hexane in EPDM wet crumb rubber in the 0.01-2% range by solvent extraction of the hexane followed by gas chromatographic analysis where the hexane is detected by flame ionization and quantified via an internal standard.

1.2 This method may involve hazardous materials operations and equipment. This method does not purport to address all the safety problems associated with it use, if any. It is the responsibility of the user to consult and establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use.

2.1 Residual hexane contained in wet pieces of EPDM polymer is extracted with MIBK. A known amount of an internal standard (IS) is added to the extract which is subsequently analyzed via gas chromatography where the hexane and IS are separated and detected utilizing a megabore column and flame ionization detection (FID). From the response to the hexane and the IS, the amount of hexane in the EPDM polymer is calculated.

3.1 Hexane-refers to n-hexane

3.2 Heptane-refers to n-heptane

3.3 MIBK-methyl isobutyl ketone (4 methyl 2-Pentanone)

4.1 Material eluting at or near the hexane and/or the IS will cause erroneous results. Prior to extraction, solvent blanks must be analyzed to confirm the absence of interfering peaks.

5.1 Review Material Safety Data Sheets of the chemicals used in this method.

6.1 4 oz round glass jar with a wide mouth screw cap lid.

6.2 Vacuum oven.

6.3 50 ml pipettes.

6.4 A gas chromatograph with an auto sampler and a 50 meter, 0.53 ID, methyl silicone column with 5 micron phase thickness.

6.5 Shaker, large enough to hold 10, 4 oz. jars.

6.6 1000 and 4000 ml volumetric flasks.

6.7 Electronic integrator or equivalent data system.

6.8 GC autosampler vials.

6.9 50 uL syringe.

7.1 Reagent grade Methyl-Iso-Butyl-Ketone (MIBK)

7.2 n-heptane, 99% + purity

7.3 n-hexane, 99% + purity

8.1 Trap a sample of the EPDM crumb slurry in the sampling apparatus. Allow the crumb slurry to circulate through the sampling apparatus for 5 minutes; then close off the values at the bottom and top of the sampling apparatus, trapping the crumb slurry. Run cooling water through the water jacket for a minimum of 30 minutes. Expel the cooled crumb slurry into a sample catching basket. If the crumb does not fall by gravity, force it out with demineralized water or nitrogen. Send the crumb slurry to the lab for analysis.

9.1 The Royalene crumb sample is extracted three times with MIBK containing an internal standard. The hexane from each extraction is added together to obtain a total hexane content. The percent hexane in the first extraction is then calculated and used as the recovery factor for the analysis.

9.2 Follow this test method through section 11.4 of the method. After removing the sample of the first extraction to be run on the gas chromatograph, drain off the remainder of the extraction solvent, retaining the crumb sample in the sample jar. Rinse the crumb with demineralized water to remove any MIBK left on the surface of the crumb. Repeat the extraction procedure with fresh MIBK with internal standard two more times.

9.3 After the third extraction, proceed to section 11.5 of this method and obtain the percent hexane in each extraction. Use the sample weight obtained in section 12.1 of this method to calculate the percent hexane in each of the extracts.

9.4 Add the percent hexane obtained from the three extractions for a total percent hexane in the sample.

9.5 Use the following equations to determine the recovery factor (R):

% Recovery of the first extraction = (% hexane in the first extract/total % hexane) x 100

Recovery Factor (R) = (% Hexane Recovered in the first extract)/100

10.1 Preparation of Internal Standard (IS) solution:

Accuracy weigh 30 grams of n-heptane into a 1000 ml volumetric flask. Dilute to the mark with reagent grade MIBK. Label this Solution "A". Pipette 100 mls. of Solution A into a 4 liter volumetric flask. Fill the flask to the mark with reagent MIBK. Label this Solution "B". Solution "B" will have a concentration of 0.75 mg/ml of heptane.

10.2 Preparation of Hexane Standard Solution (HS):

Using a 50 uL syringe, weigh by difference, 20 mg of n-hexane into a 50 ml volumetric flask containing approximately 40 ml of Solution B. Fill the flask to the mark with Solution B and mix well.

10.3 Conditions for GC analysis of standards and samples:

Temperature:

Initial = 40 &#xB0;C

Final = 150 &#xB0;C

Injector = 160 &#xB0;C

Detector = 280 &#xB0;C

Program Rate = 5.0 &#xB0;C/min

Initial Time = 5 minutes Final Time = 6 minutes

Flow Rate = 5.0 ml/min

Sensitivity = detector response must be adjusted to keep the hexane and IS on scale.

10.4 Fill an autosampler vial with the HS, analyze it three times and calculate a Hexane Relative Response Factor (RF) as follows:

11.1 Weight 10 grams of wet crumb into a tared (W1), wide mouth 4 oz. jar.

11.2 Pipette 50 ml of Solution B into the jar with the wet crumb rubber.

11.3 Screw the cap on tightly and place it on a shaker for 4 hours.

11.4 Remove the sample from the shaker and fill an autosampler vial with the MIBK extract.

11.5 Analyze the sample two times.

11.6 Analyze the HS twice, followed by the samples. Inject the HS twice at the end of each 10 samples or at the end of the run.

12.1 Drain off the remainder of the MIBK extract from the polymer in the 4 oz. jar. Retain all the polymer in the jar. Place the uncovered jar and polymer in a heated vacuum oven until the polymer is dry. Reweigh the jar and polymer (W2) and calculate the dried sample weight of the polymer as follows:

Dried SW = W2-W1 (2)

12.2 Should the polymer be oil extended, pipette 10 ml of the MIBK extract into a tared evaporating dish (W1) and evaporate to dryness on a steam plate.

Reweigh the evaporating dish containing the extracted oil (W2). Calculate the oil content of the polymer as follows:

Gram of oil extracted = 5 (W2-W1) (3)

13.1 Performance must be determined for each sample type by following the procedures in section 9 of this method.

14.1 Waste generation should be minimized where possible.

15.1 All waste shall be handled in accordance with Federal and State environmental regulations.

1.1 Applicability. This method is applicable for determination of most compounds designated by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency as volatile hazardous air pollutants (HAP's) (See Reference 1) that are contained in paints and coatings. Styrene, ethyl acrylate, and methyl methacrylate can be measured by ASTM D 4827-03. Formaldehyde can be measured by ASTM D 5910-05 or ASTM D 1979-91. Toluene diisocyanate can be measured in urethane prepolymers by ASTM D 3432-89. Method 311 applies only to those volatile HAP's which are added to the coating when it is manufactured, not to those that may form as the coating cures (reaction products or cure volatiles). A separate or modified test procedure must be used to measure these reaction products or cure volatiles in order to determine the total volatile HAP emissions from a coating. Cure volatiles are a significant component of the total HAP content of some coatings. The term "coating" used in this method shall be understood to mean paints and coatings.

1.2 Principle. The method uses the principle of gas chromatographic separation and quantification using a detector that responds to concentration differences. Because there are many potential analytical systems or sets of operating conditions that may represent useable methods for determining the concentrations of the compounds cited in Section 1.1 in the applicable matrices, all systems that employ this principle, but differ only in details of equipment and operation, may be used as alternative methods, provided that the prescribed quality control, calibration, and method performance requirements are met. Certified product data sheets (CPDS) may also include information relevant to the analysis of the coating sample including, but not limited to, separation column, oven temperature, carrier gas, injection port temperature, extraction solvent, and internal standard.

Whole coating is added to dimethylformamide and a suitable internal standard compound is added. An aliquot of the sample mixture is injected onto a chromatographic column containing a stationary phase that separates the analytes from each other and from other volatile compounds contained in the sample. The concentrations of the analytes are determined by comparing the detector responses for the sample to the responses obtained using known concentrations of the analytes.

4.1 Coating samples of unknown composition may contain the compound used as the internal standard. Whether or not this is the case may be determined by following the procedures of Section 11 and deleting the addition of the internal standard specified in Section 11.5.3. If necessary, a different internal standard may be used.

4.2 The GC column and operating conditions developed for one coating formulation may not ensure adequate resolution of target analytes for other coating formulations. Some formulations may contain nontarget analytes that coelute with target analytes. If there is any doubt about the identification or resolution of any gas chromatograph (GC) peak, it may be necessary to analyze the sample using a different GC column or different GC operating conditions.

4.3 Cross-contamination may occur whenever high-level and low-level samples are analyzed sequentially. The order of sample analyses specified in Section 11.7 is designed to minimize this problem.

4.4 Cross-contamination may also occur if the devices used to transfer coating during the sample preparation process or for injecting the sample into the GC are not adequately cleaned between uses. All such devices should be cleaned with acetone or other suitable solvent and checked for plugs or cracks before and after each use.

5.1 Many solvents used in coatings are hazardous. Precautions should be taken to avoid unnecessary inhalation and skin or eye contact. This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This test method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this test method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations in regards to the performance of this test method.

5.2 Dimethylformamide is harmful if inhaled or absorbed through the skin. The user should obtain relevant health and safety information from the manufacturer. Dimethylformamide should be used only with adequate ventilation. Avoid contact with skin, eyes, and clothing. In case of contact, immediately flush skin or eyes with plenty of water for at least 15 minutes. If eyes are affected, consult a physician. Remove and wash contaminated clothing before reuse.

5.3 User's manuals for the gas chromatograph and other related equipment should be consulted for specific precautions to be taken related to their use.

6.1 Sample Collection.
