
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

6.1.1 Sampling Containers. Dual-seal sampling containers, four to eight fluid ounce capacity, should be used to collect the samples. Glass sample bottles or plastic containers with volatile organic compound (VOC) impermeable walls must be used for corrosive substances (etch primers and certain coating catalysts such as methyl ethyl ketone (MEK) peroxide). Sample containers, caps, and inner seal liners must be inert to the compounds in the sample and must be selected on a case-by-case basis.

6.1.1.1 Other routine sampling supplies needed include waterproof marking pens, tubing, scrappers/spatulas, clean rags, paper towels, cooler/ice, long handle tongs, and mixing/stirring paddles.

6.1.2 Personal safety equipment needed includes eye protection, respiratory protection, a hard hat, gloves, steel toe shoes, etc.

6.1.3 Shipping supplies needed include shipping boxes, packing material, shipping labels, strapping tape, etc.

6.1.4 Data recording forms and labels needed include coating data sheets and sample can labels.

6.2 Laboratory Equipment and Supplies.

6.2.1 Gas Chromatograph (GC). Any instrument equipped with a flame ionization detector and capable of being temperature programmed may be used. Optionally, other types of detectors (e.g., a mass spectrometer), and any necessary interfaces, may be used provided that the detector system yields an appropriate and reproducible response to the analytes in the injected sample. Autosampler injection may be used, if available.

6.2.2 Recorder. If available, an electronic data station or integrator may be used to record the gas chromatogram and associated data. If a strip chart recorder is used, it must meet the following criteria: A 1 to 10 millivolt (mV) linear response with a full scale response time of 2 seconds or less and a maximum noise level of +/-0.03 percent of full scale. Other types of recorders may be used as appropriate to the specific detector installed provided that the recorder has a full scale response time of 2 seconds or less and a maximum noise level of +/-0.03 percent of full scale.
