
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,,e.g.,

6.2.3 Column. The column must be constructed of materials that do not react with components of the sample (fused silica, stainless steel, glass). The column should be of appropriate physical dimensions (length, internal diameter) and contain sufficient suitable stationary phase to allow separation of the analytes. DB-5, DB-Wax, and FFAP columns are commonly used for paint analysis; however, it is the responsibility of each analyst to select appropriate columns and stationary phases.

6.2.4 Tube and Tube Fittings. Supplies to connect the GC and gas cylinders.

6.2.5 Pressure Regulators. Devices used to regulate the pressure between gas cylinders and the GC.

6.2.6 Flow Meter. A device used to determine the carrier gas flow rate through the GC. Either a digital flow meter or a soap film bubble meter may be used to measure gas flow rates.

6.2.7 Septa. Seals on the GC injection port through which liquid or gas samples can be injected using a syringe.

6.2.8 Liquid Charging Devices. Devices used to inject samples into the GC such as clean and graduated 1, 5, and 10 microliter (µl) capacity syringes.

6.2.9 Vials. Containers that can be sealed with a septum in which samples may be prepared or stored. The recommended size is 25 ml capacity. Mininert &#xAE; valves have been found satisfactory and are available from Pierce Chemical Company, Rockford, Illinois.

6.2.10 Balance. Device used to determine the weights of standards and samples. An analytical balance capable of accurately weighing to 0.0001 g is required.

7.1 Purity of Reagents. Reagent grade chemicals shall be used in all tests. Unless otherwise specified, all reagents shall conform to the specifications of the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available. Other grades may be used provided it is first ascertained that the reagent is of sufficient purity to permit its use without lessening the accuracy of determination.

7.2 Carrier Gas. Helium carrier gas shall have a purity of 99.995 percent or higher. High purity nitrogen may also be used. Other carrier gases that are appropriate for the column system and analyte may also be used. Ultra-high purity grade hydrogen gas and zero-grade air shall be used for the flame ionization detector.

7.3 Dimethylformamide (DMF). Solvent for all standards and samples. Some other suitable solvent may be used if DMF is not compatible with the sample or coelutes with a target analyte.

7.4 Internal Standard Materials. The internal standard material is used in the quantitation of the analytes for this method. It shall be gas chromatography spectrophotometric quality or, if this grade is not available, the highest quality available. Obtain the assay for the internal standard material and maintain at that purity during use. The recommended internal standard material is 1-propanol; however, selection of an appropriate internal standard material for the particular coating and GC conditions used is the responsibility of each analyst.

7.5 Reference Standard Materials. The reference standard materials are the chemicals cited in Section 1.1 which are of known identity and purity and which are used to assist in the identification and quantification of the analytes of this method. They shall be the highest quality available. Obtain the assays for the reference standard materials and maintain at those purities during use.

7.6 Stock Reference Standards. Stock reference standards are dilutions of the reference standard materials that may be used on a daily basis to prepare calibration standards, calibration check standards, and quality control check standards. Stock reference standards may be prepared from the reference standard materials or purchased as certified solutions.

7.6.1 Stock reference standards should be prepared in dimethylformamide for each analyte expected in the coating samples to be analyzed. The concentrations of analytes in the stock reference standards are not specified but must be adequate to prepare the calibration standards required in the method. A stock reference standard may contain more than one analyte provided all analytes are chemically compatible and no analytes coelute. The actual concentrations prepared must be known to within 0.1 percent (e.g., 0.1000 +/-0.0001 g/g solution). The following procedure is suggested. Place about 35 ml of dimethylformamide into a tared ground-glass stoppered 50 ml volumetric flask. Weigh the flask to the nearest 0.1 mg. Add 12.5 g of the reference standard material and reweigh the flask. Dilute to volume with dimethylformamide and reweigh. Stopper the flask and mix the contents by inverting the flask several times. Calculate the concentration in grams per gram of solution from the net gain in weights, correcting for the assayed purity of the reference standard material.

7.6.2 Transfer the stock reference standard solution into one or more Teflon-sealed screw-cap bottles. Store, with minimal headspace, at -10 &#xB0;C to 0 &#xB0;C and protect from light.

7.6.3 Prepare fresh stock reference standards every six months, or sooner if analysis results from daily calibration check standards indicate a problem. Fresh stock reference standards for very volatile HAP's may have to be prepared more frequently.

7.7 Calibration Standards. Calibration standards are used to determine the response of the detector to known amounts of reference material. Calibration standards must be prepared at a minimum of three concentration levels from the stock reference standards (see Section 7.6). Prepare the calibration standards in dimethylformamide (see Section 7.3). The lowest concentration standard should contain a concentration of analyte equivalent either to a concentration of no more than 0.01% of the analyte in a coating or to a concentration that is lower than the actual concentration of the analyte in the coating, whichever concentration is higher. The highest concentration standard should contain a concentration of analyte equivalent to slightly more than the highest concentration expected for the analyte in a coating. The remaining calibration standard should contain a concentration of analyte roughly at the midpoint of the range defined by the lowest and highest concentration calibration standards. The concentration range of the standards should thus correspond to the expected range of analyte concentrations in the prepared coating samples (see Section 11.5). Each calibration standard should contain each analyte for detection by this method expected in the actual coating samples (e.g., some or all of the compounds listed in Section 1.1 may be included). Each calibration standard should also contain an appropriate amount of internal standard material (response for the internal standard material is within 25 to 75 percent of full scale on the attenuation setting for the particular reference standard concentration level). Calibration Standards should be stored for 1 week only in sealed vials with minimal headspace. If the stock reference standards were prepared as specified in Section 7.6, the calibration standards may be prepared by either weighing each addition of the stock reference standard or by adding known volumes of the stock reference standard and calculating the mass of the standard reference material added. Alternative 1 (Section 7.7.1) specifies the procedure to be followed when the stock reference standard is added by volume. Alternative 2 (Section 7.7.2) specifies the procedure to be followed when the stock reference standard is added by weight.

7.7.1 Preparation Alternative 1. Determine the amount of each stock reference standard and dimethylformamide solvent needed to prepare approximately 25 ml of the specific calibration concentration level desired. To a tared 25 ml vial that can be sealed with a crimp-on or Mininert &#xAE; valve, add the total amount of dimethylformamide calculated to be needed. As quickly as practical, add the calculated amount of each stock reference standard using new pipets (or pipet tips) for each stock reference standard. Reweigh the vial and seal it. Using the known weights of the standard reference materials per ml in the stock reference standards, the volumes added, and the total weight of all reagents added to the vial, calculate the weight percent of each standard reference material in the calibration standard prepared. Repeat this process for each calibration standard to be prepared.

7.7.2 Preparation Alternative 2. Determine the amount of each stock reference standard and dimethylformamide solvent needed to prepare approximately 25 ml of the specific calibration concentration level desired. To a tared 25 ml vial that can be sealed with a crimp-on or Mininert &#xAE; valve, add the total amount of dimethylformamide calculated to be needed. As quickly as practical, add the calculated amount of a stock reference standard using a new pipet (or pipet tip) and reweigh the vial. Repeat this process for each stock reference standard to be added. Seal the vial after obtaining the final weight. Using the known weight percents of the standard reference materials in the stock reference standards, the weights of the stock reference standards added, and the total weight of all reagents added to the vial, calculate the weight percent of each standard reference material in the calibration standard prepared. Repeat this process for each calibration standard to be prepared.

8.1 Copies of material safety data sheets (MSDS's) for each sample should be obtained prior to sampling. The MSDS's contain information on the ingredients, and physical and chemical properties data. The MSDS's also contain recommendations for proper handling or required safety precautions. Certified product data sheets (CPDS) may also include information relevant to the analysis of the coating sample including, but not limited to, separation column, oven temperature, carrier gas, injection port temperature, extraction solvent, and internal standard.

8.2 A copy of the blender's worksheet can be requested to obtain data on the exact coating being sampled. A blank coating data sheet form (see Section 18) may also be used. The manufacturer's formulation information from the product data sheet should also be obtained.

8.3 Prior to sample collection, thoroughly mix the coating to ensure that a representative, homogeneous sample is obtained. It is preferred that this be accomplished using a coating can shaker or similar device; however, when necessary, this may be accomplished using mechanical agitation or circulation systems.

8.3.1 Water-thinned coatings tend to incorporate or entrain air bubbles if stirred too vigorously; mix these types of coatings slowly and only as long as necessary to homogenize.

8.3.2 Each component of multicomponent coatings that harden when mixed must be sampled separately. The component mix ratios must be obtained at the facility at the time of sampling and submitted to the analytical laboratory.

8.4 Sample Collection. Samples must be collected in a manner that prevents or minimizes loss of volatile components and that does not contaminate the coating reservoir. A suggested procedure is as follows. Select a sample collection container which has a capacity at least 25 percent greater than the container in which the sample is to be transported. Make sure both sample containers are clean and dry. Using clean, long-handled tongs, turn the sample collection container upside down and lower it into the coating reservoir. The mouth of the sample collection container should be at approximately the midpoint of the reservoir (do not take the sample from the top surface). Turn the sample collection container over and slowly bring it to the top of the coating reservoir. Rapidly pour the collected coating into the sample container, filling it completely. It is important to fill the sample container completely to avoid any loss of volatiles due to volatilization into the headspace. Return any unused coating to the reservoir or dispose as appropriate.

8.5 Once the sample is collected, place the sample container on a firm surface and insert the inner seal in the container by placing the seal inside the rim of the container, inverting a screw cap, and pressing down on the screw cap which will evenly force the inner seal into the container for a tight fit. Using clean towels or rags, remove all residual coating material from the outside of the sample container after inserting the inner seal. Screw the cap onto the container.

8.5.1 Affix a sample label (see Section 18) clearly identifying the sample, date collected, and person collecting the sample.

8.5.2 Prepare the sample for transportation to the laboratory. The sample should be maintained at the coating's recommended storage temperature specified on the Material Safety Data Sheet, or, if no temperature is specified, the sample should be maintained within the range of 5 &#xB0;C to 38 &#xB0;C.

8.9 The shipping container should adhere to U.S. Department of Transportation specification DOT 12-B. Coating samples are considered hazardous materials; appropriate shipping procedures should be followed.

9.1 Laboratories using this method should operate a formal quality control program. The minimum requirements of the program should consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and an ongoing analysis of blanks and quality control samples to evaluate and document quality data. The laboratory must maintain records to document the quality of the data generated. When results indicate atypical method performance, a quality control check standard (see Section 9.4) must be analyzed to confirm that the measurements were performed in an in-control mode of operation.

9.2 Before processing any samples, the analyst must demonstrate, through analysis of a reagent blank, that there are no interferences from the analytical system, glassware, and reagents that would bias the sample analysis results. Each time a set of analytical samples is processed or there is a change in reagents, a reagent blank should be processed as a safeguard against chronic laboratory contamination. The blank samples should be carried through all stages of the sample preparation and measurement steps.

9.3 Required instrument quality control parameters are found in the following sections:

9.3.1 Baseline stability must be demonstrated to be &#x2264;5 percent of full scale using the procedures given in Section 10.1.

9.3.2 The GC calibration is not valid unless the retention time (RT) for each analyte at each concentration is within +/-0.05 min of the retention time measured for that analyte in the stock standard.

9.3.3 The retention time (RT) of any sample analyte must be within +/-0.05 min of the average RT of the analyte in the calibration standards for the analyte to be considered tentatively identified.

9.3.4 The GC system must be calibrated as specified in Section 10.2.

9.3.5 A one-point daily calibration check must be performed as specified in Section 10.3.

9.4 To establish the ability to generate results having acceptable accuracy and precision, the analyst must perform the following operations.

9.4.1 Prepare a quality control check standard (QCCS) containing each analyte expected in the coating samples at a concentration expected to result in a response between 25 percent and 75 percent of the limits of the calibration curve when the sample is prepared as described in Section 11.5. The QCCS may be prepared from reference standard materials or purchased as certified solutions. If prepared in the laboratory, the QCCS must be prepared independently from the calibration standards.

9.4.2 Analyze three aliquots of the QCCS according to the method beginning in Section 11.5.3 and calculate the weight percent of each analyte using Equation 1, Section 12.

9.4.3 Calculate the mean weight percent (X) for each analyte from the three results obtained in Section 9.4.2.

9.4.4 Calculate the percent accuracy for each analyte using the known concentrations (Ti) in the QCCS using Equation 3, Section 12.

9.4.5 Calculate the percent relative standard deviation (percent RSD) for each analyte using Equation 7, Section 12, substituting the appropriate values for the relative response factors (RRF's) in said equation.

9.4.6 If the percent accuracy (Section 9.4.4) for all analytes is within the range 90 percent to 110 percent and the percent RSD (Section 9.4.5) for all analytes is &#x2264;20 percent, system performance is acceptable and sample analysis may begin. If these criteria are not met for any analyte, then system performance is not acceptable for that analyte and the test must be repeated for those analytes only. Repeated failures indicate a general problem with the measurement system that must be located and corrected. In this case, the entire test, beginning at Section 9.4.1, must be repeated after the problem is corrected.

9.5 Great care must be exercised to maintain the integrity of all standards. It is recommended that all standards be stored at -10 &#xB0;C to 0 &#xB0;C in screw-cap amber glass bottles with Teflon liners.

9.6 Unless otherwise specified, all weights are to be recorded within 0.1 mg.

10.1 Column Baseline Drift. Before each calibration and series of determinations and before the daily calibration check, condition the column using procedures developed by the laboratory or as specified by the column supplier. Operate the GC at initial (i.e., before sample injection) conditions on the lowest attenuation to be used during sample analysis. Adjust the recorder pen to zero on the chart and obtain a baseline for at least one minute. Initiate the GC operating cycle that would be used for sample analysis. On the recorder chart, mark the pen position at the end of the simulated sample analysis cycle. Baseline drift is defined as the absolute difference in the pen positions at the beginning and end of the cycle in the direction perpendicular to the chart movement. Calculate the percent baseline drift by dividing the baseline drift by the chart width representing full-scale deflection and multiply the result by 100.

10.2 Calibration of GC. Bring all stock standards and calibration standards to room temperature while establishing the GC at the determined operating conditions.

10.2.1 Retention Times (RT's) for Individual Compounds.

The RT for each analyte should be determined before calibration. This provides a positive identification for each peak observed from the calibration standards. Inject an appropriate volume (see note in Section 11.5.2) of one of the stock reference standards into the gas chromatograph and record on the chart the pen position at the time of the injection (see Section 7.6.1). Dilute an aliquot of the stock reference standard as required in dimethylformamide to achieve a concentration that will result in an on-scale response. Operate the gas chromatograph according to the determined procedures. Select the peak(s) that correspond to the analyte(s) [and internal standard, if used] and measure the retention time(s). If a chart recorder is used, measure the distance(s) on the chart from the injection point to the peak maxima. These distances, divided by the chart speed, are defined as the RT's of the analytes in question. Repeat this process for each of the stock reference standard solutions.

10.2.2 Calibration. The GC must be calibrated using a minimum of three concentration levels of each potential analyte. (See Section 7.7 for instructions on preparation of the calibration standards.) Beginning with the lowest concentration level calibration standard, carry out the analysis procedure as described beginning in Section 11.7. Repeat the procedure for each progressively higher concentration level until all calibration standards have been analyzed.

10.2.2.1 Calculate the RT's for the internal standard and for each analyte in the calibration standards at each concentration level as described in Section 10.2.1. The RT's for the internal standard must not vary by more than 0.10 minutes. Identify each analyte by comparison of the RT's for peak maxima to the RT's determined in Section 10.2.1.

10.2.2.2 Compare the retention times (RT's) for each potential analyte in the calibration standards for each concentration level to the retention times determined in Section 10.2.1. The calibration is not valid unless all RT's for all analytes meet the criteria given in Section 9.3.2.

10.2.2.3 Tabulate the area responses and the concentrations for the internal standard and each analyte in the calibration standards. Calculate the response factor for the internal standard (RF) and the response factor for each compound relative to the internal standard (RRF) for each concentration level using Equations 5 and 6, Section 12.
