
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

11.7 Analyses should be conducted in the following order: daily calibration check sample, method blank, up to 10 injections from sample vials (one injection each from up to five pairs of vials, which corresponds to analysis of 5 coating samples).

11.8 Inject the prescribed volume of supernatant from the calibration check sample, the method blank, and the sample vials onto the chromatographic column and record the chromatograms while operating the system under the specified operating conditions.

12.1 Qualitative Analysis. An analyte (e.g., those cited in Section 1.1) is considered tentatively identified if two criteria are satisfied: (1) elution of the sample analyte within +/-0.05 min of the average GC retention time of the same analyte in the calibration standard; and (2) either (a) confirmation of the identity of the compound by spectral matching on a gas chromatograph equipped with a mass selective detector or (b) elution of the sample analyte within +/-0.05 min of the average GC retention time of the same analyte in the calibration standard analyzed on a dissimilar GC column.

12.1.1 The RT of the sample analyte must meet the criteria specified in Section 9.3.3.

12.1.2 When doubt exists as to the identification of a peak or the resolution of two or more components possibly comprising one peak, additional confirmatory techniques (listed in Section 12.1) must be used.

12.2 Quantitative Analysis. When an analyte has been identified, the quantification of that compound will be based on the internal standard technique.

12.2.1 A single analysis consists of one injection from each of two sample vials (A and B) prepared using the same coating. Calculate the concentration of each identified analyte in the sample as follows:

12.2.2 Report results for duplicate analysis (sample vials A and B) without correction.

12.3 Precision Data. Calculate the percent difference between the measured concentrations of each analyte in vials A and B as follows.

12.3.1 Calculate the weight percent of the analyte in each of the two sample vials as described in Section 12.2.1.

12.3.2 Calculate the percent difference for each analyte as:

12.4 Calculate the percent accuracy for analytes in the QCCS (See Section 9.4) as follows:

12.5 Obtain retention times (RT's) from data station or integrator or, for chromatograms from a chart recorder, calculate the RT's for analytes in the calibration standards (See Section 10.2.2.2) as follows:

12.6 Calculate the response factor for the internal standard (See Section 10.2.2.3) as follows:

A= Area response of the internal standard.

C= Weight percent of the internal standard.

12.7 Calculate the relative response factors for analytes in the calibration standards (See Section 10.2.2.3) as follows:

RRF= Relative response factor for an individual analyte.

A= Area response of the analyte being measured.

C= Weight percent of the analyte being measured.

12.8 Calculate the percent relative standard deviation of the relative response factors for analytes in the calibration standards (See Section 10.2.2.4) as follows:

12.9 Calculate the percent difference in the relative response factors between the calibration curve and the daily calibration checks (See Section 10.3) as follows:

16.1 The coating samples and laboratory standards and reagents may contain compounds which require management as hazardous waste. It is the laboratory's responsibility to ensure all wastes are managed in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations.

16.2 To avoid excessive laboratory waste, obtain only enough sample for laboratory analysis.

16.3 It is recommended that discarded waste coating solids, used rags, used paper towels, and other nonglass or nonsharp waste materials be placed in a plastic bag before disposal. A separate container, designated "For Sharp Objects Only," is recommended for collection of discarded glassware and other sharp-edge items used in the laboratory. It is recommended that unused or excess samples and reagents be placed in a solvent-resistant plastic or metal container with a lid or cover designed for flammable liquids. This container should not be stored in the area where analytical work is performed. It is recommended that a record be kept of all compounds placed in the container for identification of the contents upon disposal.

1. Clean Air Act Amendments, Public Law 101-549, Titles I-XI, November, 1990.

2. Standard Test Method for Water Content of Water-Reducible Paints by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph. ASTM Designation D3792-79.

3. Standard Practice for Sampling Liquid Paints and Related Pigment Coatings. ASTM Designation D3925-81.

4. Standard Test Method for Determination of Dichloromethane and 1,1,1-Trichloroethane in Paints and Coatings by Direct Injection into a Gas Chromatograph. ASTM Designation D4457-02.

5. Standard Test Method for Determining the Unreacted Monomer Content of Latexes Using Capillary Column Gas Chromatography. ASTM Designation D4827-03.

6. Standard Test Method for Determining Unreacted Monomer Content of Latexes Using Gas-Liquid Chromatography, ASTM Designation D4747-02.

7. Method 301-"Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods from Various Waste Media," 40 CFR 63, Appendix A.

8. "Reagent Chemicals, American Chemical Society Specifications," American Chemical Society, Washington, DC. For suggestions on the testing of reagents not listed by the American Chemical Society, see "Reagent Chemicals and Standards" by Joseph Rosin, D. Van Nostrand Co., Inc., New York, NY and the "United States Pharmacopeia."

1.1 This method describes a procedure for determining parts per million (ppm) styrene monomer (CAS No. 100-42-5) in aqueous samples, including latex samples and styrene stripper water.

1.2 The sample is separated in a gas chromatograph equipped with a packed column and a flame ionization detector.

2.1 This method utilizes a packed column gas chromatograph with a flame ionization detector to determine the concentration of residual styrene in styrene butadiene rubber (SBR) latex samples.

3.1 The definitions are included in the text as needed.

4.1 In order to reduce matrix effects and emulsify the styrene, similar styrene free latex is added to the internal standard. There are no known interferences.

4.2 The operating parameters are selected to obtain resolution necessary to determine styrene monomer concentrations in latex.

5.1 It is the responsibility of the user of this procedure to establish appropriate safety and health practices.

6.1 Adjustable bottle-top dispenser, set to deliver 3 ml. (for internal standard), Brinkmann Dispensette, or equivalent.

6.2 Pipettor, set to 10 ml., Oxford Macro-set, or equivalent.

6.3 Volumetric flask, 100-ml, with stopper.

6.4 Hewlett Packard Model 5710A dual channel gas chromatograph equipped with flame ionization detector.

6.4.1 11 ft. xin. stainless steel column packed with 10% TCEP on 100/120 mesh Chromosorb P, or equivalent.

6.4.2 Perkin Elmer Model 023 strip chart recorder, or equivalent.

6.5 Helium carrier gas, zero grade.

6.6 Liquid syringe, 25-µl.

6.7 Digital MicroVAX 3100 computer with VG Multichrom software, or equivalent data handling system.

6.6 Wire Screens, circular, 70-mm, 80-mesh diamond weave.

6.7 DEHA-(N,N-Diethyl hydroxylamine), 97 + % purity, CAS No. 3710-84-7

6.8 p-Dioxane, CAS No. 123-91-1

7.1 Internal standard preparation.

7.1.1 Pipette 5 ml p-dioxane into a 1000-ml volumetric flask and fill to the mark with distilled water and mix thoroughly.

7.2 Calibration solution preparation.

7.2.1 Pipette 10 ml styrene-free latex (eg: NBR latex) into a 100-ml volumetric flask.

7.2.2 Add 3 ml internal standard (section 7.1.1 of this method).

7.2.3 Weigh exactly 10 µl fresh styrene and record the weight.

7.2.4 Inject the styrene into the flask and mix well.

7.2.5 Add 2 drops of DEHA, fill to the mark with water and mix well again.

7.2.6 Calculate concentration of the calibration solution as follows:

8.1 A representative SBR emulsion sample should be caught in a clean, dry 6-oz. teflon lined glass container. Close it properly to assure no sample leakage.

8.2 The container should be labeled with sample identification, date and time.

9.1 The instrument is calibrated by injecting calibration solution (Section 7.2 of this method) five times.

9.2 The retention time for components of interest and relative response of monomer to the internal standard is determined.

9.3 Recovery efficiency must be determined once for each sample type and whenever modifications are made to the method.

9.3.1 A set of six latex samples shall be collected. Two samples shall be prepared for analysis from each sample. Each sample shall be analyzed in duplicate.

9.3.2 The second set of six latex samples shall be analyzed in duplicate before spiking each sample with approximately 1000 ppm styrene. The spiked samples shall be analyzed in duplicate.

9.3.3 For each hydrocarbon, calculate the average recovery efficiency (R) using the following equations:

9.3.4 A value of R between 0.70 and 1.30 is acceptable.

9.3.5 R is used to correct all reported results for each compound by dividing the measured results of each compound by the R for that compound for the same sample type.

10.1 Injection port temperature, 250 &#xB0;C.

10.2 Oven temperature, 110 &#xB0;C, isothermal.

10.3 Carrier gas flow, 25 cc/min.

10.4 Detector temperature, 250 &#xB0;C.

10.5 Range, 1X.

11.1 Turn on recorder and adjust baseline to zero.

11.2 Prepare sample.

11.2.1 For latex samples, add 3 ml Internal Standard (section 7.1 of this method) to a 100-ml volumetric flask. Pipet 10 ml sample into the flask using the Oxford pipettor, dilute to the 100-ml mark with water, and shake well.

11.2.2 For water samples, add 3 ml Internal Standard (section 7.1 of this method) to a 100-ml volumetric flask and fill to the mark with sample. Shake well.

11.3 Flush syringe with sample.

11.4 Carefully inject 2 µl of sample into the gas chromatograph column injection port and press the start button.

11.5 When the run is complete the computer will print a report of the analysis.

12.1 For samples that are prepared as in section 11.2.1 of this method:

12.2 For samples that are prepared as in section 11.2.2 of this method, ppm styrene is read directly from the computer.

13.1 This test has a standard deviation (1) of 3.3 ppm at 100 ppm styrene. The average Spike Recovery from six samples at 1000 ppm Styrene was 96.7 percent. The test method was validated using 926 ppm styrene standard. Six analysis of the same standard provided average 97.7 percent recovery. Note: These are example recoveries and do not replace quality assurance procedures in this method.

14.1 Waste generation should be minimized where possible. Sample size should be an amount necessary to adequately run the analysis.

15.1 All waste shall be handled in accordance with Federal and State environmental regulations.

16.1 40 CFR 63 Appendix A-Method 301 Test Methods Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement
