
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### NOTE:

7.5.6 Purity Check: Analyze according to section 11.2.You must "precipitate" the sample with an equal part of acetone (thus duplicating actual test conditions-see section 11.1 of this method, sample prep) before analyzing. Analyze the reagent 3 times to quantify the Cand termonomer interferences. Inspect the results to ensure good agreement among the three runs (within 10%).

7.5.7 Tag the bottle with the following information:

7.6 Quality Control Solution: the quality control solution is prepared by adding specific amounts of mixed hexanes (barge hexane), n-nonane and termonomer to some polymer dissolving solution. Nonane elutes in the same approximate time region as termonomer and is used to quantify in that region because it has a longer shelf life. Termonomer, having a high tendency to polymerize, is used in the QC solution only to ensure that both termonomer isomers elute at the proper time.

First, a concentrated stock solution is prepared; the final QC solution can then be prepared by diluting the stock solution.

7.6.1 In preparation of stock solution, fill a 1-liter volumetric flask partially with polymer dissolving solution (PDS)-see section 7.5 of this method. Add 20.0 ml barge hexane, 5.0 ml n-nonane, and 3 ml termonomer. Finish filling the volumetric to the mark with PDS.

7.6.2 In preparation of quality control solution, dilute the quality control stock solution (above) precisely 1:10 with PDS, i.e. 10 ml of stock solution made up to 100 ml (volumetric flask) with PDS. Pour the solution into a 4 oz. Boston round bottle and store in the refrigerator.

8.1 Line up facility to catch crumb samples. The facility is a special facility where the sample is drawn.

8.1.1 Ensure that the cock valve beneath facility is closed.

8.1.2 Line up the system from the slurry line cock valve to the cock valve at the nozzle on the stripper.

8.1.3 Allow the system to flush through facility for a period of 30 seconds.

8.2 Catch a slurry crumb sample.

8.2.1 Simultaneously close the cock valves upstream and downstream of facility.

8.2.2 Close the cock valve beneath the slurry line in service.

8.2.3 Line up the cooling tower water through the sample bomb water jacket to the sewer for a minimum of 30 minutes.

8.2.4 Place the sample catching basket beneath facility and open the cock valve underneath the bomb to retrieve the rubber crumb.

8.2.5 If no rubber falls by gravity into the basket, line up nitrogen to the bleeder upstream of the sample bomb and force the rubber into the basket.

8.2.6 Close the cock valve underneath the sample bomb.

8.3 Fill a plastic "Whirl-pak" sample bag with slurry crumb and send it to the lab immediately.

8.4 Once the sample reaches the lab, it should be prepped as soon as possible to avoid hexane loss through evaporation. Samples which have lain untouched for more than 30 minutes should be discarded.

Quality control is monitored via a computer program that tracks analyses of a prepared QC sample (from section 7.6.2 of this method). The QC sample result is entered daily into the program, which plots the result as a data point on a statistical chart. If the data point does not satisfy the "in-control" criteria (as defined by the lab quality facilitator), an "out-of-control" flag appears, mandating corrective action.

In addition, the area of the n-heptane peak is monitored so that any errors in making up the polymer dissolving solution will be caught and corrected. Refer to section 12.4 of this method.

9.1 Fill an autosampler vial with the quality control solution (from section 7.6.2 of this method) and analyze on the GC as normal (per section 11 of this method).

9.2 Add the concentrations of the 5 hexane isomers as they appear on the CALS printout. Also include the 2,2-dimethyl-pentane peak just ahead of the methyl cyclopentane (the fourth major isomer) peak in the event that the peak integration split this peak out. Do not include the benzene peak in the sum. Note the nonane concentration. Record both results (total hexane and nonane) in the QC computer program. If out of control, and GC appears to be functioning within normal parameters, reanalyze a fresh control sample. If the fresh QC is not in control, check stock solution for contaminants or make up a new QC sample with the toluene currently in use. If instrument remains out-of-control, more thorough GC troubleshooting may be needed.

Also, verify that the instrument has detected both isomers of termonomer (quantification not necessary-see section 7.0 of this method).

9.3 Recovery efficiency must be determined for high ethylene concentration, low ethylene concentration, E-P terpolymer, or oil extended samples and whenever modifications are made to the method. Recovery shall be between 70 and 130 percent. All test results must be corrected by the recovery efficiency value (R).

9.3.1 Approximately 10 grams of wet EPDM crumb (equivalent to about 5 grams of dry rubber) shall be added to six sample bottles containing 100 ml of hexane in crumb polymer dissolving solution (toluene containing 0.3 gram n-heptane/100 ml solution). The polymer shall be dissolved by agitating the bottles on a shaker for 4 hours. The polymer shall be precipitated using 100 ml acetone.

9.3.2 The supernatant liquid shall be decanted from the polymer. Care shall be taken to remove as much of the liquid phase from the sample as possible to minimize the effect of retained liquid phase upon the next cycle of the analysis. The supernatant liquid shall be analyzed by gas chromatography using an internal standard quantitation method with heptane as the internal standard.

9.3.3 The precipitated polymer from the steps described above shall be redissolved using toluene as the solvent. No heptane shall be added to the sample in the second dissolving step. The toluene solvent and acetone precipitant shall be determined to be free of interfering compounds.

9.3.4 The rubber which was dissolved in the toluene shall be precipitated with acetone as before, and the supernatant liquid decanted from the precipitated polymer. The liquid shall be analyzed by gas chromatography and the rubber phase dried in a steam-oven to determine the final polymer weight.

9.3.5 The ratios of the areas of the hexane peaks and of the heptane internal standard peak shall be calculated for each of the six samples in the two analysis cycles outlined above. The area ratios of the total hexane to heptane (R1) shall be determined for the two analysis cycles of the sample set. The ratio of the values of R1 from the second analysis cycle to the first cycle shall be determined to give a second ratio (R2).

The procedure for preparing a Quality Control sample with the internal standard in it is outlined in section 7.6 of this method.

10.1 The relative FID response factors for n-heptane, the internal standard, versus the various hexane isomers and termonomer are relatively constant and should seldom need to be altered. However Baseline construction is a most critical factor in the production of good data. For this reason, close attention should be paid to peak integration. Procedures for handling peak integration will depend upon the data system used.

10.2 If recalibration of the analysis is needed, make up a calibration blend of the internal standard and the analytes as detailed below and analyze it using the analytical method used for the samples.

10.2.1 Weigh 5 g heptane into a tared scintillation vial to five places.

10.2.2 Add 0.2 ml termonomer to the vial and reweigh.

10.2.3 Add 0.5 ml hexane to the vial and reweigh.

10.2.4 Cap, and shake vigorously to mix.

10.2.5 Calculate the weights of termonomer and of hexane added and divide their weights by the weight of the n-heptane added. The result is the known of given value for the calibration.

10.2.6 Add 0.4 ml of this mixture to a mixture of 100 ml toluene and 100 ml of acetone. Cap and shake vigorously to mix.

10.2.7 Analyze the sample.

10.2.8 Divide the termonomer area and the total areas of the hexane peaks by the n-heptane area. This result is the "found" value for the calibration.

10.2.9 Divide the appropriate "known" value from 10.2.5 by the found value from 10.2.8. The result is the response factor for the analyte in question. Previous work has shown that the standard deviation of the calibration method is about 1% relative.

11.1 SAMPLE PREPARATION

11.1.1 Tare an 8oz sample bottle-Tag attached, cap off; record weight and sample ID on tag in pencil.

11.1.2 Place crumb sample in bottle: RLA-3: 10 g (gives a dry wt. of ∼5.5 g).
