
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### FTIR Protocol,

8.1 Pretest Preparations and Evaluations. Using the procedure in Section 4.0 of thedetermine the optimum sampling system configuration for sampling the target pollutants. Table 2 gives some example values for AU, DL, and MAU. Based on a study (Reference 1), an FTIR system using 1 cmresolution, 22 meter path length, and a broad band MCT detector was suitable for meeting the requirements in Table 2. Other factors that must be determined are:

a. Test requirements: AU, CMAX, DL, OFU, and tfor each.

b. Interferants: See Table 1.

c. Sampling system: L&#x2032;, P, P&#x2032;, T&#x2032;, t, V; fractional error, MIL.

d. Analytical regions: 1 through N, FL, FC, and FU, plus interferants, FFU, FFL, wavenumber range FNU to FNL. See Tables 1 and 2.

8.1.1 If necessary, sample and acquire an initial spectrum. Then determine the proper operational pathlength of the instrument to obtain non-saturated absorbances of the target analytes.

8.1.2 Set up the sampling train as shown in Figure 1.

8.2 Sampling System Leak-check. Leak-check from the probe tip to pump outlet as follows: Connect a 0- to 250-mL/min rate meter (rotameter or bubble meter) to the outlet of the pump. Close off the inlet to the probe, and note the leakage rate. The leakage rate shall be &#x2264;200 mL/min.

8.3 Analytical System Leak-check.

8.3.1 For the evacuated sample technique, close the valve to the FTIR cell, and evacuate the absorption cell to the minimum absolute pressure P. Close the valve to the pump, and determine the change in pressure ΔPafter 2 minutes.

8.3.2 For both the evacuated sample and purging techniques, pressurize the system to about 100 mmHg above atmospheric pressure. Isolate the pump and determine the change in pressure ΔPafter 2 minutes.

8.3.3 Measure the barometric pressure, Pin mmHg.

8.3.4 Determine the percent leak volume %Vfor the signal integration time tand for ΔP, i.e., the larger of ΔPor ΔP, as follows:

8.3.5 Leak volumes in excess of 4 percent of the sample system volume Vare unacceptable.

8.4 Background Spectrum. Evacuate the gas cell to &#x2264;5 mmHg, and fill with dry nitrogen gas to ambient pressure. Verify that no significant amounts of absorbing species (for example water vapor and CO) are present. Collect a background spectrum, using a signal averaging period equal to or greater than the averaging period for the sample spectra. Assign a unique file name to the background spectrum. Store the spectra of the background interferogram and processed single-beam background spectrum on two separate computer media (one is used as the back-up). If continuous sampling will be used during sample collection, collect the background spectrum with nitrogen gas flowing through the cell at the same pressure and temperature as will be used during sampling.

8.5 Pre-Test Calibration Transfer Standard. Evacuate the gas cell to &#x2264;5 mmHg absolute pressure, and fill the FTIR cell to atmospheric pressure with the CTS gas. Or, purge the cell with 10 cell volumes of CTS gas. Record the spectrum. If continuous sampling will be used during sample collection, collect the CTS spectrum with CTS gas flowing through the cell at the same pressure and temperature as will be used during sampling.

8.6 Samples

8.6.1 Evacuated Samples. Evacuate the absorbance cell to &#x2264;5 mmHg absolute pressure. Fill the cell with flue gas to ambient pressure and record the spectrum. Before taking the next sample, evacuate the cell until no further evidence of absorption exists. Repeat this procedure to collect at least 8 separate spectra (samples) in 1 hour.

8.6.2 Purge Sampling. Purge the FTIR cell with 10 cell volumes of flue gas and at least for about 10 minutes. Discontinue the gas cell purge, isolate the cell, and record the sample spectrum and the pressure. Before taking the next sample, purge the cell with 10 cell volumes of flue gas.

8.6.3 Continuous Sampling. Spectra can be collected continuously while the FTIR cell is being purged. The sample integration time, t, the sample flow rate through the FTIR gas cell, and the total run time must be chosen so that the collected data consist of at least 10 spectra with each spectrum being of a separate cell volume of flue gas. More spectra can be collected over the run time and the total run time (and number of spectra) can be extended as well.

8.7 Sampling QA, Data Storage and Reporting

8.7.1 Sample integration times should be sufficient to achieve the required signal-to-noise ratios. Obtain an absorbance spectrum by filling the cell with nitrogen. Measure the RMSD in each analytical region in this absorbance spectrum. Verify that the number of scans is sufficient to achieve the target MAU (Table 2).

8.7.2 Identify all sample spectra with unique file names.

8.7.3 Store on two separate computer media a copy of sample interferograms and processed spectra. The data shall be available to the Administrator on request for the length of time specified in the applicable regulation.

8.7.4 For each sample spectrum, document the sampling conditions, the sampling time (while the cell was being filled), the time the spectrum was recorded, the instrumental conditions (path length, temperature, pressure, resolution, integration time), and the spectral file name. Keep a hard copy of these data sheets.

8.8 Signal Transmittance. While sampling, monitor the signal transmittance through the instrumental system. If signal transmittance (relative to the background) drops below 95 percent in any spectral region where the sample does not absorb infrared energy, obtain a new background spectrum.

8.9 Post-run CTS. After each sampling run, record another CTS spectrum.

8.10 Post-test QA

8.10.1 Inspect the sample spectra immediately after the run to verify that the gas matrix composition was close to the expected (assumed) gas matrix.

8.10.2 Verify that the sampling and instrumental parameters were appropriate for the conditions encountered. For example, if the moisture is much greater than anticipated, it will be necessary to use a shorter path length or dilute the sample.

8.10.3 Compare the pre and post-run CTS spectra. They shall agree to within -5 percent. See FTIR Protocol, Appendix E.

Follow the quality assurance procedures in the method, including the analysis of pre and post-run calibration transfer standards (Sections 8.5 and 8.9) and the post-test quality assurance procedures in Section 8.10.

10.1 Signal-to-Noise Ratio (S/N). The S/N shall be sufficient to meet the MAU in each analytical region.

10.2 Absorbance Pathlength. Verify the absorbance path length by comparing CTS spectra to reference spectra of the calibration gas(es). See FTIR Protocol, Appendix E.

10.3 Instrument Resolution. Measure the line width of appropriate CTS band(s) and compare to reference CTS spectra to verify instrumental resolution.

10.4 Apodization Function. Choose appropriate apodization function. Determine any appropriate mathematical transformations that are required to correct instrumental errors by measuring the CTS. Any mathematical transformations must be documented and reproducible.

10.5 FTIR Cell Volume. Evacuate the cell to &#x2264;5 mmHg. Measure the initial absolute temperature (T) and absolute pressure (P). Connect a wet test meter (or a calibrated dry gas meter), and slowly draw room air into the cell. Measure the meter volume (V), meter absolute temperature (T), and meter absolute pressure (P), and the cell final absolute temperature (T) and absolute pressure (P). Calculate the FTIR cell volume V, including that of the connecting tubing, as follows:

Refer to Sections 4.6-4.11, Sections 5, 6, and 7, and the appendices of the FTIR Protocol.

a. Data analysis is performed using appropriate reference spectra whose concentrations can be verified using CTS spectra. Various analytical programs are available to relate sample absorbance to a concentration standard. Calculated concentrations should be verified by analyzing spectral baselines after mathematically subtracting scaled reference spectra from the sample spectra. A full description of the data analysis and calculations may be found in the FTIR Protocol (Sections 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 and appendices).

b. Correct the calculated concentrations in sample spectra for differences in absorption pathlength between the reference and sample spectra by:

All interferograms used in determining source concentration shall be stored for the period of time required in the applicable regulation. The Administrator has the option of requesting the interferograms recorded during the test in electronic form as part of the test report.

Refer to the FTIR Protocol.

Laboratory standards prepared from the formaldehyde and phenol are handled according to the instructions in the materials safety data sheets (MSDS).

(1) "Field Validation Test Using Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry To Measure Formaldehyde, Phenol and Methanol at a Wool Fiberglass Production Facility." Draft. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Report, Entropy, Inc., EPA Contract No. 68D20163, Work Assignment I-32, December 1994 (docket item II-A-13).

(2) "Method 301-Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods from Various Waste Media," 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.

1.1 This method applies to the determination of the initial, particle size dependent, filtration efficiency for paint arrestors over the particle diameter range from 0.3 to 10 µm. The method applies to single and multiple stage paint arrestors or paint arrestor media. The method is applicable to efficiency determinations from 0 to 99 percent. Two test aerosols are used-one liquid phase and one solid phase. Oleic acid, a low-volatility liquid (CAS Number 112-80-1), is used to simulate the behavior of wet paint overspray. The solid-phase aerosol is potassium chloride salt (KCl, CAS Number 7447-40-7) and is used to simulate the behavior of a dry overspray. The method is limited to determination of the initial, clean filtration efficiency of the arrestor. Changes in efficiency (either increase or decrease) due to the accumulation of paint overspray on and within the arrestor are not evaluated.

1.2 Efficiency is defined as 1-Penetration (e.g., 70 percent efficiency is equal to 0.30 penetration). Penetration is based on the ratio of the downstream particle concentration to the upstream concentration. It is often more useful, from a mathematical or statistical point of view, to discuss the upstream and downstream counts in terms of penetration rather than the derived efficiency value. Thus, this document uses both penetration and efficiency as appropriate.

1.3 For a paint arrestor system or subsystem which has been tested by this method, adding additional filtration devices to the system or subsystem shall be assumed to result in an efficiency of at least that of the original system without the requirement for additional testing. (For example, if the final stage of a three-stage paint arrestor system has been tested by itself, then the addition of the other two stages shall be assumed to maintain, as a minimum, the filtration efficiency provided by the final stage alone. Thus, in this example, if the final stage has been shown to meet the filtration requirements of Table 1 of § 63.745 of subpart GG, then the final stage in combination with any additional paint arrestor stages also passes the filtration requirements.)

2.1 This method applies to the determination of the fractional (i.e., particle-size dependent) aerosol penetration of several types of paint arrestors. Fractional penetration is computed from aerosol concentrations measured upstream and downstream of an arrestor installed in a laboratory test rig. The aerosol concentrations upstream and downstream of the arrestors are measured with an aerosol analyzer that simultaneously counts and sizes the particles in the aerosol stream. The aerosol analyzer covers the particle diameter size range from 0.3 to 10 µm in a minimum of 12 contiguous sizing channels. Each sizing channel covers a narrow range of particle diameters. For example, Channel 1 may cover from 0.3 to 0.4 µm, Channel 2 from 0.4 to 0.5 µm, * * * By taking the ratio of the downstream to upstream counts on a channel by channel basis, the penetration is computed for each of the sizing channels.

2.2 The upstream and downstream aerosol measurements are made while injecting the test aerosol into the air stream upstream of the arrestor (ambient aerosol is removed with HEPA filters on the inlet of the test rig). This test aerosol spans the particle size range from 0.3 to 10 µm and provides sufficient upstream concentration in each of the optical particle counter (OPC) sizing channels to allow accurate calculation of penetration, down to penetrations of approximately 0.01 (i.e., 1 percent penetration; 99 percent efficiency). Results are presented as a graph and a data table showing the aerodynamic particle diameter and the corresponding fractional efficiency.

Aerodynamic Diameter-diameter of a unit density sphere having the same aerodynamic properties as the particle in question.

Efficiency is defined as equal to 1-Penetration.

Optical Particle Counter (OPC)-an instrument that counts particles by size using light scattering. An OPC gives particle diameters based on size, index of refraction, and shape.

Penetration-the fraction of the aerosol that penetrates the filter at a given particle diameter. Penetration equals the downstream concentration divided by the upstream concentration.

4.1 The influence of the known interferences (particle losses) are negated by correction of the data using blanks.

5.1 There are no specific safety precautions for this method above those of good laboratory practice. This standard does not purport to address all of the safety problems, if any, associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use.

6.1 Test Facility. A schematic diagram of a test duct used in the development of the method is shown in Figure 319-1.

6.1.1 The test section, paint spray section, and attached transitions are constructed of stainless and galvanized steel. The upstream and downstream ducting is 20 cm diameter polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The upstream transition provides a 7 &#xB0; angle of expansion to provide a uniform air flow distribution to the paint arrestors. Aerosol concentration is measured upstream and downstream of the test section to obtain the challenge and penetrating aerosol concentrations, respectively. Because the downstream ducting runs back under the test section, the challenge and penetrating aerosol taps are located physically near each other, thereby facilitating aerosol sampling and reducing sample-line length. The inlet nozzles of the upstream and downstream aerosol probes are designed to yield isokinetic sampling conditions.

6.1.2 The configuration and dimensions of the test duct can deviate from those of Figure 319-1 provided that the following key elements are maintained: the test duct must meet the criteria specified in Table 319-1; the inlet air is HEPA filtered; the blower is on the upstream side of the duct thereby creating a positive pressure in the duct relative to the surrounding room; the challenge air has a temperature between 50 &#xB0; and 100 &#xB0;F and a relative humidity of less than 65 percent; the angle of the upstream transition (if used) to the paint arrestor must not exceed 7 &#xB0;; the angle of the downstream transition (if used) from the paint arrestor must not exceed 30 &#xB0;; the test duct must provide a means for mixing the challenge aerosol with the upstream flow (in lieu of any mixing device, a duct length of 15 duct diameters fulfills this requirement); the test duct must provide a means for mixing any penetrating aerosol with the downstream flow (in lieu of any mixing device, a duct length of 15 duct diameters fulfills this requirement); the test section must provide a secure and leak-free mounting for single and multiple stage arrestors; and the test duct may utilize a 180 &#xB0; bend in the downstream duct.

6.2 Aerosol Generator. The aerosol generator is used to produce a stable aerosol covering the particle size range from 0.3 to 10 µm diameter. The generator used in the development of this method consists of an air atomizing nozzle positioned at the top of a 0.30-m (12-in.) diameter, 1.3-m (51-in.) tall, acrylic, transparent, spray tower. This tower allows larger sized particles, which would otherwise foul the test duct and sample lines, to fall out of the aerosol. It also adds drying air to ensure that the KCl droplets dry to solid salt particles. After generation, the aerosol passes through an aerosol neutralizer (Kr85 radioactive source) to neutralize any electrostatic charge on the aerosol (electrostatic charge is an unavoidable consequence of most aerosol generation methods). To improve the mixing of the aerosol with the air stream, the aerosol is injected counter to the airflow. Generators of other designs may be used, but they must produce a stable aerosol concentration over the 0.3 to 10 µm diameter size range; provide a means of ensuring the complete drying of the KCl aerosol; and utilize a charge neutralizer to neutralize any electrostatic charge on the aerosol. The resultant challenge aerosol must meet the minimum count per channel and maximum concentration criteria of Table 319-1.

6.3 Installation of Paint Arrestor. The paint arrestor is to be installed in the test duct in a manner that precludes air bypassing the arrestor. Since arrestor media are often sold unmounted, a mounting frame may be used to provide back support for the media in addition to sealing it into the duct. The mounting frame for 20 in. x 20 in. arrestors will have minimum open internal dimensions of 18 in. square. Mounting frames for 24 in. x 24 in. arrestors will have minimum open internal dimensions of 22 in. square. The open internal dimensions of the mounting frame shall not be less than 75 percent of the approach duct dimensions.

6.4 Optical Particle Counter. The upstream and downstream aerosol concentrations are measured with a high-resolution optical particle counter (OPC). To ensure comparability of test results, the OPC shall utilize an optical design based on wide-angle light scattering and provided a minimum of 12 contiguous particle sizing channels from 0.3 to 10 µm diameter (based on response to PSL) where, for each channel, the ratio of the diameter corresponding to the upper channel bound to the lower channel bound must not exceed 1.5.

6.5 Aerosol Sampling System. The upstream and downstream sample lines must be made of rigid electrically-grounded metallic tubing having a smooth inside surface, and they must be rigidly secured to prevent movement during testing. The upstream and downstream sample lines are to be nominally identical in geometry. The use of a short length (100 mm maximum) of straight flexible tubing to make the final connection to the OPC is acceptable. The inlet nozzles of the upstream and downstream probes must be sharp-edged and of appropriate entrance diameter to maintain isokinetic sampling within 20 percent of the air velocity.

6.5.1 The sampling system may be designed to acquire the upstream and downstream samples using (a) sequential upstream-downstream sampling with a single OPC, (b) simultaneous upstream and downstream sampling with two OPC's, or (c) sequential upstream-downstream sampling with two OPC's.

6.5.2 When two particle counters are used to acquire the upstream and downstream counts, they must be closely matched in flowrate and optical design.

6.6 Airflow Monitor. The volumetric airflow through the system shall be measured with a calibrated orifice plate, flow nozzle, or laminar flow element. The measurement device must have an accuracy of 5 percent or better.

7.1 The liquid test aerosol is reagent grade, 98 percent pure, oleic acid (Table 319-2). The solid test aerosol is KCl aerosolized from a solution of KCl in water. In addition to the test aerosol, a calibration aerosol of monodisperse polystyrene latex (PSL) spheres is used to verify the calibration of the OPC.

8.1 In this test, all sampling occurs in real-time, thus no samples are collected that require preservation or storage during the test. The paint arrestors are shipped and stored to avoid structural damage or soiling. Each arrestor may be shipped in its original box from the manufacturer or similar cardboard box. Arrestors are stored at the test site in a location that keeps them clean and dry. Each arrestor is clearly labeled for tracking purposes.

9.1 Table 319-1 lists the QC control limits.

9.2 The standard deviation (&#x3C3;) of the penetration (P) for a given test at each of the 15 OPC sizing channels is computed from the coefficient of variation (CV, the standard deviation divided by the mean) of the upstream and downstream measurements as:

9.3 Data Quality Objectives (DQO).

9.3.1 Fractional Penetration. From the triplicate tests of each paint arrestor model, the standard deviation for the penetration measurements at each particle size (i.e., for each sizing channel of the OPC) is computed as:

9.3.2 Bias of the fractional penetration values is determined from triplicate no-filter and HEPA filter tests. These tests determine the measurement bias at 100 percent penetration and 0 percent penetration, respectively.

9.3.3 PSL-Equivalent Light Scattering Diameter. The precision and bias of the OPC sizing determination are based on sampling a known diameter of PSL and noting whether the particle counts peak in the correct channel of the OPC. This is a pass/fail measurement with no calculations involved.

9.3.4 Airflow. The precision of the measurement must be within 5 percent of the set point.

10.1 Optical Particle Counter. The OPC must have an up-to-date factory calibration. Check the OPC zero at the beginning and end of each test by sampling HEPA-filtered air. Verify the sizing accuracy on a daily basis (for days when tests are performed) with 1-size PSL spheres.

10.2 Airflow Measurement. Airflow measurement devices must have an accuracy of 5 percent or better. Manometers used in conjunction with the orifice plate must be inspected prior to use for proper level, zero, and mechanical integrity. Tubing connections to the manometer must be free from kinks and have secure connections.

10.3 Pressure Drop. Measure pressure drop across the paint arrestor with an inclined manometer readable to within 0.01 in. HO. Prior to use, the level and zero of the manometer, and all tubing connections, must be inspected and adjusted as needed.

11.1 Filtration Efficiency. For both the oleic acid and KCl challenges, this procedure is performed in triplicate using a new arrestor for each test.

11.1.1 General Information and Test Duct Preparation

11.1.1.1 Use the "Test Run Sheet" form (Figure 319-2) to record the test information.

Condition of arrestor (i.e., is there any damage? Must be new condition to proceed):

Manometer zero and level confirmed?

Condition of arrestor at end of test (note any physical deterioration):

Other report formats which contain the same information are acceptable.

11.1.1.2 Record the date, time, test operator, Test #, paint arrestor brand/model and its assigned ID number. For tests with no arrestor, record none.

11.1.1.3 Ensure that the arrestor is undamaged and is in "new" condition.

11.1.1.4 Mount the arrestor in the appropriate frame. Inspect for any airflow leak paths.

11.1.1.5 Install frame-mounted arrestor in the test duct. Examine the installed arrestor to verify that it is sealed in the duct. For tests with no arrestor, install the empty frame.

11.1.1.6 Visually confirm the manometer zero and level. Adjust as needed.

11.1.2 Clean Efficiency Test.

11.1.2.1 Record the date and time upon beginning this section.

11.1.2.2 Optical Particle Counter.

11.1.2.2.1 General: Operate the OPC per the manufacturer's instructions allowing a minimum of 20 minutes warm up before making any measurements.

11.1.2.2.2 Overload: The OPC will yield inaccurate data if the aerosol concentration it is attempting to measure exceeds its operating limit. To ensure reliable measurements, the maximum aerosol concentration will not exceed 10 percent of the manufacturer's claimed upper concentration limit corresponding to a 10 percent count error. If this value is exceeded, reduce the aerosol concentration until the acceptable conditions are met.

11.1.2.2.3 Zero Count: Connect a HEPA capsule to the inlet of the OPC and obtain printouts for three samples (each a minimum of 1-minute each). Record maximum cumulative zero count. If the count rate exceeds 50 counts per minute, the OPC requires servicing before continuing.

11.1.2.2.4 PSL Check of OPC Calibration: Confirm the calibration of the OPC by sampling a known size PSL aerosol. Aerosolize the PSL using an appropriate nebulizer. Record whether the peak count is observed in the proper channel. If the peak is not seen in the appropriate channel, have the OPC recalibrated.

11.1.2.3 Test Conditions:

11.1.2.3.1 Airflow: The test airflow corresponds to a nominal face velocity of 120 FPM through the arrestor. For arrestors having nominal 20 in. x 20 in. face dimensions, this measurement corresponds to an airflow of 333 cfm. For arrestors having nominal face dimensions of 24 in. x 24 in., this measurement corresponds to an airflow of 480 cfm.

11.1.2.3.2 Temperature and Relative Humidity: The temperature and relative humidity of the challenge air stream will be measured to within an accuracy of +/-2 &#xB0;F and +/-10 percent RH. To protect the probe from fouling, it may be removed during periods of aerosol generation.

11.1.2.3.3 Barometric Pressure: Use a mercury barometer. Record the atmospheric pressure.

11.1.2.4 Upstream and Downstream Background Counts.

11.1.2.4.1 With the arrestor installed in the test duct and the airflow set at the proper value, turn on the data acquisition computer and bring up the data acquisition program.

11.1.2.4.2 Set the OPC settings for the appropriate test sample duration with output for both printer and computer data collection.

11.1.2.4.3 Obtain one set of upstream-downstream background measurements.

11.1.2.4.4 After obtaining the upstream-downstream measurements, stop data acquisition.

11.1.2.5 Efficiency Measurements:

11.1.2.5.1 Record the arrestor pressure drop.

11.1.2.5.2 Turn on the Aerosol Generator. Begin aerosol generation and record the operating parameters.

11.1.2.5.3 Monitor the particle counts. Allow a minimum of 5 minutes for the generator to stabilize.

11.1.2.5.4 Confirm that the total particle count does not exceed the predetermined upper limit. Adjust generator as needed.

11.1.2.5.5 Confirm that a minimum of 50 particle counts are measured in the upstream sample in each of the OPC channels per sample. (A minimum of 50 counts per channel per sample will yield the required minimum 500 counts per channel total for the 10 upstream samples as specified in Table 319-1.) Adjust generator or sample time as needed.

11.1.2.5.6 If you are unable to obtain a stable concentration within the concentration limit and with the 50 count minimum per channel, adjust the aerosol generator.

11.1.2.5.7 When the counts are stable, perform repeated upstream-downstream sampling until 10 upstream-downstream measurements are obtained.

11.1.2.5.8 After collection of the 10 upstream-downstream samples, stop data acquisition and allow 2 more minutes for final purging of generator.

11.1.2.5.9 Obtain one additional set of upstream-downstream background samples.

11.1.2.5.10 After obtaining the upstream-downstream background samples, stop data acquisition.

11.1.2.5.11 Record the arrestor pressure drop.

11.1.2.5.12 Turn off blower.

11.1.2.5.13 Remove the paint arrestor assembly from the test duct. Note any signs of physical deterioration.

11.1.2.5.14 Remove the arrestor from the frame and place the arrestor in an appropriate storage bag.

11.2 Control Test: 100 Percent Penetration Test. A 100 percent penetration test must be performed immediately before each individual paint arrestor test using the same challenge aerosol substance (i.e., oleic acid or KCl) as to be used in the arrestor test. These tests are performed with no arrestor installed in the test housing. This test is a relatively stringent test of the adequacy of the overall duct, sampling, measurement, and aerosol generation system. The test is performed as a normal penetration test except the paint arrestor is not used. A perfect system would yield a measured penetration of 1 at all particle sizes. Deviations from 1 can occur due to particle losses in the duct, differences in the degree of aerosol uniformity (i.e., mixing) at the upstream and downstream probes, and differences in particle transport efficiency in the upstream and downstream sampling lines.

11.3 Control Test: 0 Percent Penetration. One 0 percent penetration test must be performed at least monthly during testing. The test is performed by using a HEPA filter rather than a paint arrestor. This test assesses the adequacy of the instrument response time and sample line lag.

12.1 Analysis. The analytical procedures for the fractional penetration and flow velocity measurements are described in Section 11. Note that the primary measurements, those of the upstream and downstream aerosol concentrations, are performed with the OPC which acquires the sample and analyzes it in real time. Because all the test data are collected in real time, there are no analytical procedures performed subsequent to the actual test, only data analysis.

12.2 Calculations.

12.2.1 Penetration.

Overbar denotes arithmetic mean of quantity.

Analysis of each test involves the following quantities:

- Pvalue for each sizing channel from the 100 percent penetration control test,

- 2 upstream background values,

- 2 downstream background values,

- 10 upstream values with aerosol generator on, and

- 10 downstream values with aerosol generator on.

Using the values associated with each sizing channel, the penetration associated with each particle-sizing channel is calculated as:

Most often, the background levels are small compared to the values when the aerosol generator is on.

12.3 The relationship between the physical diameter (D) as measured by the OPC to the aerodynamic diameter (D) is given by:

12.4 Presentation of Results. For a given arrestor, results will be presented for:

- Triplicate arrestor tests with the liquid-phase challenge aerosol,

- Triplicate arrestor tests with the solid-phase challenge aerosol,

- Triplicate 100 percent penetration tests with the liquid-phase challenge aerosol,

- Triplicate 100 percent penetration tests with the solid-phase challenge aerosol, and

- One 0 percent filter test (using either the liquid-phase or solid-phase aerosol and performed at least monthly).

12.4.1 Results for the paint arrestor test must be presented in both graphical and tabular form. The X-axis of the graph will be a logarithmic scale of aerodynamic diameter from 0.1 to 100 µm. The Y-axis will be efficiency (%) on a linear scale from 0 to 100. Plots for each individual run and a plot of the average of triplicate solid-phase and of the average triplicate liquid-phase tests must be prepared. All plots are to be based on point-to-point plotting (i.e., no curve fitting is to be used). The data are to be plotted based on the geometric mean diameter of each of the OPC's sizing channels.

12.4.2 Tabulated data from each test must be provided. The data must include the upper and lower diameter bound and geometric mean diameter of each of the OPC sizing channels, the background particle counts for each channel for each sample, the upstream particle counts for each channel for each sample, the downstream particle counts for each channel for each sample, the 100 percent penetration values computed for each channel, and the 0 percent penetration values computed for each channel.

13.1 The quantities of materials to be aerosolized should be prepared in accord with the amount needed for the current tests so as to prevent wasteful excess.

14.1 Paint arrestors may be returned to originator, if requested, or disposed of with regular laboratory waste.

1. Hanley, J.T., D.D. Smith and L. Cox. "Fractional Penetration of Paint Overspray Arrestors, Draft Final Report," EPA Cooperative Agreement CR-817083-01-0, January 1994.

2. Hanley, J.T., D.D. Smith, and D.S. Ensor. "Define a Fractional Efficiency Test Method that is Compatible with Particulate Removal Air Cleaners Used in General Ventilation," Final Report, 671-RP, American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, Inc., December 1993.

3. "Project Work and Quality Assurance Plan: Fractional Penetration of Paint Overspray Arrestors, Category II," EPA Cooperative Agreement No. CR-817083, July 1994.

Persons unfamiliar with basic elements of FTIR spectroscopy should not attempt to use this method. This method describes sampling and analytical procedures for extractive emission measurements using Fourier transform infrared (FTIR) spectroscopy. Detailed analytical procedures for interpreting infrared spectra are described in the "Protocol for the Use of Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry in Analyses of Gaseous Emissions from Stationary Sources," hereafter referred to as the "Protocol." Definitions not given in this method are given in appendix A of the Protocol. References to specific sections in the Protocol are made throughout this Method. For additional information refer to references 1 and 2, and other EPA reports, which describe the use of FTIR spectrometry in specific field measurement applications and validation tests. The sampling procedure described here is extractive. Flue gas is extracted through a heated gas transport and handling system. For some sources, sample conditioning systems may be applicable. Some examples are given in this method.

1.1 Scope and Applicability.
