
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### FTIR

See Appendix A of theProtocol.

4.1 Analytical (or Spectral) Interferences. Water vapor. High concentrations of ammonia (hundreds of ppm) may interfere with the analysis of low concentrations of methanol (1 to 5 ppm). For CO, carbon dioxide and water may be interferants. In cases where COS levels are low relative to CO levels, CO and water may be interferants.

4.2 Sampling System Interferences. Water, if it condenses, and ammonia, which reacts with formaldehyde.

5.1 Formaldehyde is a suspected carcinogen; therefore, exposure to this compound must be limited. Proper monitoring and safety precautions must be practiced in any atmosphere with potentially high concentrations of CO.

5.2 This method may involve sampling at locations having high positive or negative pressures, high temperatures, elevated heights, high concentrations of hazardous or toxic pollutants, or other diverse sampling conditions. It is the responsibility of the tester(s) to ensure proper safety and health practices, and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before performing this test method.

The equipment and supplies are based on the schematic of a sampling train shown in Figure 1. Either the evacuated or purged sampling technique may be used with this sampling train. Alternatives may be used, provided that the data quality objectives of this method are met.

6.1 Sampling Probe. Glass, stainless steel, or other appropriate material of sufficient length and physical integrity to sustain heating, prevent adsorption of analytes, and to reach gas sampling point.

6.2 Particulate Filters. A glass wool plug (optional) inserted at the probe tip (for large particulate removal) and a filter rated at 1-micron (e.g., Balston) for fine particulate removal, placed immediately after the heated probe.

6.3 Sampling Line/Heating System. Heated (maintained at 250 +/-25 degrees F) stainless steel, Teflon, or other inert material that does not adsorb the analytes, to transport the sample to analytical system.

6.4 Stainless Steel Tubing. Type 316, e.g.,in. diameter, and appropriate length for heated connections.

6.5 Gas Regulators. Appropriate for individual gas cylinders.

6.6 TeflonTubing. Diameter (e.g.,in.) and length suitable to connect cylinder regulators.

6.7 Sample Pump. A leak-free pump (e.g., KNF), with by-pass valve, capable of pulling sample through entire sampling system at a rate of about 10 to 20 L/min. If placed before the analytical system, heat the pump and use a pump fabricated from materials non-reactive to the target pollutants. If the pump is located after the instrument, systematically record the sample pressure in the gas cell.

6.8 Gas Sample Manifold. A heated manifold that diverts part of the sample stream to the analyzer, and the rest to the by-pass discharge vent or other analytical instrumentation.

6.9 Rotameter. A calibrated 0 to 20 L/min range rotameter.

6.10 FTIR Analytical System. Spectrometer and detector, capable of measuring formaldehyde, phenol, methanol, COS and CO to the predetermined minimum detectable level. The system shall include a personal computer with compatible software that provides real-time updates of the spectral profile during sample collection and spectral collection.

6.11 FTIR Cell Pump. Required for the evacuated sampling technique, capable of evacuating the FTIR cell volume within 2 minutes. The FTIR cell pump should allow the operator to obtain at least 8 sample spectra in 1 hour.

6.12 Absolute Pressure Gauge. Heatable and capable of measuring pressure from 0 to 1000 mmHg to within +/-2.5 mmHg (e.g., Baratron).

6.13 Temperature Gauge. Capable of measuring the cell temperature to within +/-2 &#xB0;C.

7.1 Ethylene (Calibration Transfer Standard). Obtain NIST traceable (or Protocol) cylinder gas.

7.2 Nitrogen. Ultra high purity (UHP) grade.

7.3 Reference Spectra. Obtain reference spectra for the target pollutants at concentrations that bracket (in ppm-meter/K) the emission source levels. Also, obtain reference spectra for SFand ethylene. Suitable concentrations are 0.0112 to 0.112 (ppm-meter)/K for SFand 5.61 (ppm-meter)/K or less for ethylene. The reference spectra shall meet the criteria for acceptance outlined in Section 2.2.2. The optical density (ppm-meters/K) of the reference spectrum must match the optical density of the sample spectrum within (less than) 25 percent.

Sampling should be performed in the following sequence: Collect background, collect CTS spectrum, collect samples, collect post-test CTS spectrum, verify that two copies of all data were stored on separate computer media.
