
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Gas Chromatograph Conditions

11.6

12.1 The integrator is programmed to do the following calculation at the end of the analysis:

12.2 The response factor is determined by analyzing a solution of 0.02g of styrene and 0.02g of alpha methyl styrene in 100ml of 2-propanol. Calculate the factor by the following equation:

13.1 Performance must be determined for each sample type by following the procedures in section 9 of this method.

14.1 Waste generation should be minimized where possible.

15.1 All waste shall be handled in accordance with Federal and State environmental regulations.

1.1 This method determines residual toluene and styrene in stripper crumb of the of the following types of rubber: polybutadiene (PBR) and styrene/butadiene rubber (SBR), both derived from solution polymerization processes that utilize toluene as the polymerization solvent.

1.2 The method is applicable to a wide range of concentrations of toluene and styrene provided that calibration standards cover the desired range. It is applicable at least over the range of 0.01 to 10.0 % residual toluene and from 0.1 to 3.0 % residual styrene. It is probably applicable over a wider range, but this must be verified prior to use.

1.3 The method may also be applicable to other process samples as long as they are of a similar composition to stripper crumb. See section 3.1 of this method for a description of stripper crumb.

2.1 The wet crumb is placed in a sealed vial and run on a headspace sampler which heats the vial to a specified temperature for a specific time and then injects a known volume of vapor into a capillary GC. The concentration of each component in the vapor is proportional to the level of that component in the crumb sample and does not depend on water content of the crumb.

2.2 Identification of each component is performed by comparing the retention times to those of known standards.

2.3 Results are calculated by the external standard method since injections are all performed in an identical manner. The response for each component is compared with that obtained from dosed samples of crumb.

2.4 Measured results of each compound are corrected by dividing each by the average recovery efficiency determined for the same compound in the same sample type.

3.1 Stripper crumb refers to pieces of rubber resulting from the steam stripping of a toluene solution of the same polymer in a water slurry. The primary component of this will be polymer with lesser amounts of entrained water and residual toluene and other hydrocarbons. The amounts of hydrocarbons present must be such that the crumb is a solid material, generally less that 10 % of the dry rubber weight.

4.1 Contamination is not normally a problem since samples are sealed into vials immediately on sampling.

4.2 Cross contamination in the headspace sampler should not be a problem if the correct sampler settings are used. This should be verified by running a blank sample immediately following a normal or high sample. Settings may be modified if necessary if this proves to be a problem, or a blank sample may be inserted between samples.

4.3 Interferences may occur if volatile hydrocarbons are present which have retention times close to that of the components of interest. Since the solvent makeup of the processes involved are normally fairly well defined this should not be a problem. If it is found to be the case, switching to a different chromatographic column will probably resolve the situation.

5.1 The chemicals specified in this method should all be handled according to standard laboratory practices as well as any special precautions that may be listed in the MSDS for that compound.

5.2 Sampling of strippers or other process streams may involve high pressures and temperatures or may have the potential for exposure to chemical fumes. Only personnel who have been trained in the specific sampling procedures required for that process should perform this operation. An understanding of the process involved is necessary. Proper personal protective equipment should be worn. Any sampling devices should be inspected prior to use. A detailed sampling procedure which specifies exactly how to obtain the sample must be written and followed.

6.1 Hewlett Packard (HP) 7694 Headspace sampler, or equivalent, with the following conditions:

6.2 HP 5890 Series II capillary gas chromatograph, or equivalent, with the following conditions:

6.3 HP Chemstation consisting of computer, printer and Chemstation software, or an equivalent chromatographic data system.

6.4 20 ml headspace vials with caps and septa.

6.5 Headspace vial crimper.

6.6 Microliter pipetting syringes.

6.7 Drying oven at 100 deg C vented into cold trap or other means of trapping hydrocarbons released.

6.8 Laboratory shaker or tumbler suitable for the headspace vials.

6.9 Personal protective equipment required for sampling the process such as rubber gloves and face and eye protection.

7.1 Toluene, 99.9 + % purity, HPLC grade.

7.2 Styrene, 99.9 + % purity, HPLC grade.

7.3 Dry rubber of same type as the stripper crumb samples.

8.1 Collect a sample of crumb in a manner appropriate for the process equipment being sampled.

8.1.1 If conditions permit, this may be done by passing a stream of the crumb slurry through a strainer, thus separating the crumb from the water. Allow the water to drain freely, do not attempt to squeeze any water from the crumb. Results will not depend on the exact water content of the samples. Immediately place several pieces of crumb directly into a headspace vial. This should be done with rubber gloves to protect the hands from both the heat and from contact with residual hydrocarbons. The vial should be betweenandfull. Results do not depend on sample size as long as there is sufficient sample to reach an equilibrium vapor pressure in the headspace of the vial. Cap and seal the vial. Prepare each sample at least in duplicate. This is to minimize the effect of the variation that naturally occurs in the composition of non homogeneous crumb. The free water is not analyzed by this method and should be disposed of appropriately along with any unused rubber crumb.

8.1.2 Alternatively the process can be sampled in a specially constructed sealed bomb which can then be transported to the laboratory. The bomb is then cooled to ambient temperature by applying a stream of running water. The bomb can then be opened and the crumb separated from the water and the vials filled as described in section 8.1.1 of this method. The bomb may be stored up to 8 hours prior to transferring the crumb into vials.

8.2 The sealed headspace vials may be run immediately or may be stored up to 72 hours prior to running. It is possible that even longer storage times may be acceptable, but this must be verified for the particular type of sample being analyzed (see section 9.2.3 of this method). The main concern here is that some types of rubber eventually may flow, thus compacting the crumb so that the surface area is reduced. This may have some effect on the headspace equilibration.

9.1 The laboratory is required to operate a formal quality control program. This consists of an initial demonstration of the capability of the method as well as ongoing analysis of standards, blanks and spiked samples to demonstrate continued performance.

9.1.1 When the method is first set up a calibration is run (described in section 10 of this method) and an initial demonstration of method capability is performed (described in section 9.2 of this method). Also recovery efficiency for each type of sample must be determined (see section 9.4 of this method).

9.1.2 It is permissible to modify this method in order to improve separations or make other improvements, provided that all performance specifications are met. Each time a modification to the method is made it is necessary to repeat the calibration (section 10 of this method), the demonstration of method performance (section 9.2 of this method) and the recovery efficiency for each type of sample (section 9.4 of this method).

9.1.3 Ongoing performance should be monitored by running a spiked rubber standard. If this test fails to demonstrate that the analysis is in control, then corrective action must be taken. This method is described in section 9.3 of this method.

9.1.4 If new types of samples are being analyzed then recovery efficiency for each new type of sample must be determined. New type includes any change, such as polymer type, physical form or a significant change in the composition of the matrix.

9.2 Initial demonstration of method capability to establish the accuracy and precision of the method. This is to be run following the calibration described in section 10 of this method.

9.2.1 Prepare a series of identical spiked rubber standards as described in section 9.3 of this method. A sufficient number to determine statistical information on the test should be run. Ten may be a suitable number, depending on the quality control methodology used at the laboratory running the tests. These are run in the same manner as unknown samples (see section 11 of this method).

9.2.2 Determine mean and standard deviation for the results. Use these to determine the capability of the method and to calculate suitable control limits for the ongoing performance check which will utilize the same standards.

9.2.3 Prepare several additional spiked rubber standards and run 2 each day to determine the suitability of storage of the samples for 24, 48 and 72 hours or longer if longer storage times are desired.

9.3 A spiked rubber standard should be run on a regular basis to verify system performance. This would probably be done daily if samples are run daily. This is prepared in the same manner as the calibration standards (section 10.1 of this method), except that only one concentration of toluene and styrene is prepared. Choose concentrations of toluene and styrene that fall in the middle of the range expected in the stripper crumb and then do not change these unless there is a major change in the composition of the unknowns. If it becomes necessary to change the composition of this standard the initial performance demonstration must be repeated with the new standard (section 9.2 of this method).

9.3.1 Each day prepare one spiked rubber standard to be run the following day. The dry rubber may be prepared in bulk and stored for any length of time consistent with the shelf life of the product. The addition of water and hydrocarbons must be performed daily and all the steps described under section 10.1 of this method must be followed.

9.3.2 Run the spiked rubber standard prepared the previous day. Record the results and plot on an appropriate control chart or other means of determining statistical control.

9.3.3 If the results for the standard indicate that the test is out of control then corrective action must be taken. This may include a check on procedures, instrument settings, maintenance or recalibration. Samples may be stored (see section 8.2 of this method) until compliance is demonstrated.

9.4 Recovery efficiency must be determined once for each sample type and whenever modifications are made to the method.

9.4.1 For each sample type collect 12 samples from the process (section 8.1 of this method). This should be done when the process is operating in a normal manner and residual hydrocarbon levels are in the normal range. Half the vials and caps should be tared, labeled "spiked" and numbered 1 through 6. The other vials are labeled "unspiked" and need not be tared but are also numbered 1 through 6. Immediately on sampling, the vials should be capped to prevent loss of volatiles. Allow all the samples to cool completely to ambient temperature. Reweigh each of the vials labeled "spiked" to determine the weight of wet crumb inside.

9.4.2 The dry weight of rubber present in the wet crumb is estimated by multiplying the weight of wet crumb by the fraction of nonvolatiles typical for the sample. If this is not known, an additional quantity of crumb may be sampled, weighed, dried in an oven and reweighed to determine the fraction of volatiles and nonvolatiles prior to starting this procedure.

9.4.3 To the vials labeled "spiked" add an amount of a mixture of toluene and styrene that is between 40 and 60 % of the amount expected in the crumb. This is done by removing the cap, adding the mixture by syringe, touching the tip of the needle to the sample in order to remove the drop and then immediately recapping the vials. The mixture is not added through the septum, because a punctured septum may leak and vent vapors as the vial is heated. The weights of toluene and styrene added may be calculated from the volumes of the mixture added, its composition and density, or may be determined by the weight of the vials and caps prior to and after addition. The exact dry weight of rubber present and the concentration of residual toluene and styrene are not known at this time so an exact calculation of the concentration of hydrocarbons is not possible until the test is completed.

9.4.4 Place all the vials onto a shaker or tumbler for 24 +/-2 hours. This is essential in order for the hydrocarbons to be evenly distributed and completely absorbed into the rubber. If this is not followed the toluene and styrene will be mostly at the surface of the rubber and high results will be obtained.

9.4.5 Remove the vials from the shaker and tap them so that all the crumb settles to the bottom of the vials. Allow them to stand for 1 hour prior to analysis to allow any liquid to drain fully to the bottom.

9.4.6 Run the spiked and unspiked samples in the normal manner. Record the concentrations of toluene and styrene reported for each pair of spiked and unspiked samples with the same vial number.

9.4.7 Open each of the vials labeled "spiked", remove all the rubber crumb and place it into a tarred drying pan. Place in a 100 deg C oven for two hours, cool and reweigh. Subtract the weight of the tare to give the dry weight of rubber in each spiked vial. Calculate the concentration of toluene and styrene spiked into each vial as percent of dry rubber weight. This will be slightly different for each vial since the weights of dry rubber will be different.

9.4.8 For each hydrocarbon calculate the average recovery efficiency (R) using the following equations:

9.4.9 A different R value should be obtained for each compound (styrene and toluene) and for each sample type.

9.4.10 A value of R between 0.70 and 1.30 is acceptable.

9.4.11 R is used to correct all reported results for each compound by dividing the measured results of each compound by the R for that compound for the same sample type (see section 12.2 of this method.)

10.1 Calibration standards are prepared by dosing known amounts of the hydrocarbons of interest into vials containing known amounts of rubber and water.

10.1.1 Cut a sufficient quantity of dry rubber of the same type as will be analyzed into pieces about the same size as that of the crumb. Place these in a single layer on a piece of aluminum foil or other suitable surface and place into a forced air oven at 100 &#xB0;C for four hours. This is to remove any residual hydrocarbons that may be present. This step may be performed in advance.

10.1.2 Into each of a series of vials add 3.0 g of the dry rubber.

10.1.3 Into each vial add 1.0 ml distilled water or an amount that is close to the amount that will be present in the unknowns. The exact amount of water present does not have much effect on the analysis, but it is necessary to have a saturated environment. The water will also aid in the uniform distribution of the spiked hydrocarbons over the surface of the rubber after the vials are placed on the shaker (in step 10.1.5 of this method).

10.1.4 Into each vial add varying amounts of toluene and styrene by microliter syringe and cap the vials immediately to prevent loss. The tip of the needle should be carefully touched to the rubber in order to transfer the last drop to the rubber. Toluene and styrene may first be mixed together in suitable proportions and added together if desired. The weights of toluene and styrene added may be calculated from the volumes of the mixture added, its composition and density, or may be determined by the weight of the vials and caps prior to and after addition. Concentrations of added hydrocarbons are calculated as percent of the dry rubber weight. At least 5 standards should be prepared with the amounts of hydrocarbons added being calculated to cover the entire range possible in the unknowns. Retain two samples with no added hydrocarbons as blanks.

10.1.5 Place all the vials onto a shaker or tumbler for 24 +/-2 hours. This is essential in order for the hydrocarbons to be evenly distributed and completely absorbed into the rubber. If this is not followed the toluene and styrene will be mostly at the surface of the rubber and high results will be obtained.

10.1.6 Remove the vials from the shaker and tap them so that all the crumb settles to the bottom of the vials. Allow them to stand for 1 hour prior to analysis to allow any liquid to drain fully to the bottom.

10.2 Run the standards and blanks in the same manner as described for unknowns (section 11 of this method), starting with a blank, then in order of increasing hydrocarbon content and ending with the other blank.

10.3 Verify that the blanks are sufficiently free from toluene and styrene or any interfering hydrocarbons.

10.3.1 It is possible that trace levels may be present even in dry product. If levels are high enough that they will interfere with the calibration then the drying procedure in section 10.1.1 of this method should be reviewed and modified as needed to ensure that suitable standards can be prepared.

10.3.2 It is possible that the final blank is contaminated by the previous standard. If this is the case review and modify the sampler parameters as needed to eliminate this problem. If necessary it is possible to run blank samples between regular samples in order to reduce this problem, though it should not be necessary if the sampler is properly set up.

10.4 Enter the amounts of toluene and styrene added to each of the samples (as calculated in section 10.1.4 of this method) into the calibration table and perform a calibration utilizing the external standard method of analysis.

10.5 At low concentrations the calibration should be close to linear. If a wide range of levels are to be determined it may be desirable to apply a nonlinear calibration to get the best fit.

11.1 Place the vials in the tray of the headspace sampler. Enter the starting and ending positions through the console of the sampler. For unknown samples each is run in duplicate to minimize the effect of variations in crumb composition. If excessive variation is noted it may be desirable to run more than two of each sample.

11.2 Make sure the correct method is loaded on the Chemstation. Turn on the gas flows and light the FID flame.

11.3 Start the sequence on the Chemstation. Press the START button on the headspace unit. The samples will be automatically injected after equilibrating for 30 minutes in the oven. As each sample is completed the Chemstation will calculate and print out the results as percent toluene and styrene in the crumb based on the dry weight of rubber.

12.1 For each set of duplicate samples calculate the average of the measured concentration of toluene and styrene. If more than two replicates of each sample are run calculate the average over all replicates.

12.2 For each sample correct the measured amounts of toluene and styrene using the following equation:

12.3 Report the recovery efficiency (R) and the corrected results of toluene and styrene for each sample.

13.1 This method can be very sensitive and reproducible. The actual performance depends largely on the exact nature of the samples being analyzed. Actual performance must be determined by each laboratory for each sample type.

13.2 The main source of variation is the actual variation in the composition of non homogeneous crumb in a stripping system and the small sample sizes employed here. It therefore is the responsibility of each laboratory to determine the optimum number of replicates of each sample required to obtain accurate results.

14.1 Samples should be kept sealed when possible in order to prevent evaporation of hydrocarbons.

14.2 When drying of samples is required it should be done in an oven which vents into a suitable device that can trap the hydrocarbons released.

14.3 Dispose of samples as described in section 15.

15.1 Excess stripper crumb and water as well as the contents of the used sample vials should be properly disposed of in accordance with local and federal regulations.

15.2 Preferably this will be accomplished by having a system of returning unused and spent samples to the process.

16.1 "HP 7694 Headspace Sampler-Operating and Service Manual", Hewlett-Packard Company, publication number G1290-90310, June 1993.

1.1 This method is applicable to solution polymerized polybutadiene (PBD).

1.2 This method quantitatively determines n-hexane in wet crumb polymer at levels from 0.08 to 0.15% by weight.

1.3 This method may be extended to the determination of other hydrocarbons in solution produced polymers with proper experimentation and documentation.

2.1 A weighed sample of polymer is dissolved in chloroform and the cement is coagulated with an isopropyl alcohol solution containing a specific amount of alpha-methyl styrene (AMS) as the internal standard. The extract of this coagulation is then injected into a gas chromatograph and separated into individual components. Quantification is achieved by the method of internal standardization.

3.1 The definitions are included in the text as needed.

5.1 This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use.

6.1 Analytical balance, 160 g capacity, 0.1 mg resolution

6.2 Bottles, 2-oz capacity with poly-cap screw lids

6.3 Mechanical shaker

6.4 Syringe, 10-ul capacity

6.5 Syringe, 2.5-ml capacity, with 22 gauge 1.25 inch needle, PP/PE material, disposable

6.6 Gas chromatograph, Hewlett-Packard model 5890, or equivalent, configured with FID, split injector packed with silanized glass wool.

6.6.1 Establish the following gas chromatographic conditions, and allow the system to thoroughly equilibrate before use.

6.6.2 Injector parameters:

6.6.3 Oven temperature program:

6.6.4 Detector parameters:

6.7 Gas chromatographic columns: SE-54 (5%-phenyl) (1%-vinyl)-methylpolysiloxane, 15 M x 0.53 mm ID with a 1.2 micron film thickness, and a Carbowax 20M (polyethylene glycol), 15 M x 0.53 mm ID with a 1.2 micron film thickness.

6.7.1 Column assembly: using a 0.53 mm ID butt connector union, join the 15 M x 0.53 mm SE-54 column to the 15 M x 0.53 mm Carbowax 20M. The SE-54 column will be inserted into the injector and the Carbowax 20M inserted into the detector after they have been joined.

6.7.2 Column parameters:

6.8 Centrifuge

6.9 Data collection system, Hewlett-Packard Model 3396, or equivalent

6.10 Pipet, 25-ml capacity, automatic dispensing, and 2 liter reservoir

6.11 Pipet, 2-ml capacity, volumetric delivery, class A

6.12 Flasks, 100 and 1000-ml capacity, volumetric, class A

6.13 Vial, serum, 50-ml capacity, red rubber septa and crimp ring seals

6.14 Sample collection basket fabricated out of wire mesh to allow for drainage

CHEMICALS:

7.1 alpha-Methyl Styrene, C9H10, 99 + % purity, CAS 98-83-9

7.2 n-Hexane, C6H14, 99 + % purity, CAS 110-54-3

7.3 Isopropyl alcohol, C3H8O 99.5 + % purity, reagent grade, CAS 67-63-0

7.4 Chloroform, CHCl3, 99% min., CAS 67-66-3

REAGENTS:

7.5 Internal Standard Stock Solution: 10 mg/25 ml AMS in isopropyl alcohol.

7.5.1 Into a 25-ml beaker, weigh 0.4 g of AMS to the nearest 0.1 mg.

7.5.2 Quantitatively transfer this AMS into a 1-L volumetric flask. Dilute to the mark with isopropyl alcohol.

7.5.3 Transfer this solution to the automatic dispensing pipet reservoir. This will be labeled the AMS STOCK SOLUTION.

7.6 n-Hexane Stock Solution: 13mg/2ml hexane in isopropyl alcohol.

7.6.1 Into a 100-ml volumetric flask, weigh 0.65 g of n-hexane to the nearest 0.1 mg.

7.6.2 Dilute to the mark with isopropyl alcohol. This solution will be labeled the n-HEXANE STOCK SOLUTION.

8.1 A sampling device similar to Figure 1 is used to collect a non-vented crumb rubber sample at a location that is after the stripping operation but before the sample is exposed to the atmosphere.

8.2 The crumb rubber is allowed to cool before opening the sampling device and removing the sample.

8.3 The sampling device is opened and the crumb rubber sample is collected in the sampling basket.

8.4 One pound of crumb rubber sample is placed into a polyethylene bag. The bag is labeled with the time, date and sample location.

8.5 The sample should be delivered to the laboratory for testing within one hour of sampling.

8.6 Laboratory testing will be done within 3 hours of the sampling time.

8.7 No special storage conditions are required unless the storage time exceeds 3 hours in which case refrigeration of the samples is recommended.

9.1 For each sample type, 12 samples shall be obtained from the process for the recovery study. Half of the vials and caps shall be tared, labeled "spiked", and numbered 1 through 6. The other vials shall be labeled "unspiked" and need not be tared, but are also numbered 1 through 6.

9.2 Determine the % moisture content of the crumb sample. After determining the % moisture content, the correction factor for calculating the dry crumb weight can be determined by using the equation in section 12.2 of this method.

9.3 Run the spiked and unspiked samples in the normal manner. Record the concentrations of the n-hexane content of the mixed hexane reported for each pair of spiked and unspiked samples.

9.4 For the recovery study, each sample of crumb shall be dissolved in chloroform containing a known amount of mixed hexane solvent.

9.5 For each hydrocarbon, calculate the recovery efficiency (R) using the following equations:

9.6 Normally a value of R between 0.70 and 1.30 is acceptable.

9.7 R is used to correct all reported results for each compound by dividing the measured results of each compound by the R for that compound for the same sample type.

10.1 Using the AMS STOCK SOLUTION equipped with the automatic dispensing pipet (7.5.3 of this method), transfer 25.0 ml of the internal standard solution into an uncapped 50-ml serum vial.

10.2 Using a 2.0 ml volumetric pipet, quantitatively transfer 2.0 ml of the n-HEXANE STOCK SOLUTION (7.6.2 of this method) into the 50-ml serum vial and cap. This solution will be labeled the CALIBRATION SOLUTION.

10.3 Using the conditions prescribed (6.6 of this method), inject 1 µl of the supernate.

10.4 Obtain the peak areas and calculate the response factor as described in the calculations section (12.1 of this method).

11.1 Determination of Dry Polymer Weight

11.1.1 Remove wet crumb from the polyethylene bag and place on paper towels to absorb excess surface moisture.

11.1.2 Cut small slices or cubes from the center of the crumb sample to improve sample uniformity and further eliminate surface moisture.

11.1.3 A suitable gravimetric measurement should be made on a sample of this wet crumb to determine the correction factor needed to calculate the dry polymer weight.

11.2 Determination of n-Hexane in Wet Crumb

11.2.1 Remove wet crumb from the polyethylene bag and place on paper towels to absorb excess surface moisture.

11.2.2 Cut small slices or cubes from the center of the crumb sample to improve sample uniformity and further eliminate surface moisture.

11.2.3 Into a tared 2 oz bottle, weigh 1.5 g of wet polymer to the nearest 0.1 mg.

11.2.4 Add 25 ml of chloroform to the 2 oz bottle and cap.

11.2.5 Using a mechanical shaker, shake the bottle until the polymer dissolves.

11.2.6 Using the autodispensing pipet, add 25.0 ml of the AMS STOCK SOLUTION (7.5.3 of this method) to the dissolved polymer solution and cap.

11.2.7 Using a mechanical shaker, shake the bottle for 10 minutes to coagulate the dissolved polymer.

11.2.8 Centrifuge the sample for 3 minutes at 2000 rpm.

11.2.9 Using the conditions prescribed (6.6 of this method), chromatograph 1 µl of the supernate.

11.2.10 Obtain the peak areas and calculate the concentration of the component of interest as described in the calculations (12.2 of this method).

12.1 Calibration:

12.2 Procedure:

12.2.1 Correction Factor for calculating dry crumb weight.

12.2.2 Moisture adjustment for chromatographic determination.

12.2.3 Concentration (ppm) of hexane in the wet crumb.

13.1 Precision for the method was determined at the 0.08% level.

The standard deviation was 0.01 and the percent relative standard deviation (RSD) was 16.3 % with five degrees of freedom.

14.1 Waste generation should be minimized where possible.

15.1 Discard liquid chemical waste into the chemical waste drum.

15.2 Discard polymer waste into the polymer waste container.

16.1 This method is based on Goodyear Chemical Division Test Method E-964.

1.1 Analytes. Particulate matter (PM). No CAS number assigned. Methylene chloride extractable matter (MCEM). No CAS number assigned.

1.2 Applicability. This method is applicable for the simultaneous determination of PM and MCEM when specified in an applicable regulation. This method was developed by consensus with the Aluminum Association and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and has limited precision estimates for MCEM; it should have similar precision to Method 5 for PM in 40 CFR part 60, appendix A since the procedures are similar for PM.

1.3 Data quality objectives. Adherence to the requirements of this method will enhance the quality of the data obtained from air pollutant sampling methods.

Particulate matter and MCEM are withdrawn isokinetically from the source. PM is collected on a glass fiber filter maintained at a temperature in the range of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application. The PM mass, which includes any material that condenses on the probe and is subsequently removed in an acetone rinse or on the filter at or above the filtration temperature, is determined gravimetrically after removal of uncombined water. MCEM is then determined by adding a methylene chloride rinse of the probe and filter holder, extracting the condensable hydrocarbons collected in the impinger water, adding an acetone rinse followed by a methylene chloride rinse of the sampling train components after the filter and before the silica gel impinger, and determining residue gravimetrically after evaporating the solvents.

This method may involve hazardous materials, operations, and equipment. This method does not purport to address all of the safety problems associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this method to establish appropriate safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to performing this test method.

6.1 Sample collection. The following items are required for sample collection:

6.1.1 Sampling train. A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 5-1, Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3. Complete construction details are given in APTD-0581 (Reference 2 in section 17.0 of this method); commercial models of this train are also available. For changes from APTD-0581 and for allowable modifications of the train shown in Figure 5-1, Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-3, see the following subsections.

6.1.1.1 Probe nozzle. Glass or glass lined with sharp, tapered leading edge. The angle of taper shall be &#x2264;30 &#xB0;, and the taper shall be on the outside to preserve a constant internal diameter. The probe nozzle shall be of the button-hook or elbow design, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator. Other materials of construction may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. A range of nozzle sizes suitable for isokinetic sampling should be available. Typical nozzle sizes range from 0.32 to 1.27 cm (toin.) inside diameter (ID) in increments of 0.16 cm (in.). Larger nozzle sizes are also available if higher volume sampling trains are used. Each nozzle shall be calibrated according to the procedures outlined in section 10.0 of this method.

6.1.1.2 Probe liner. Borosilicate or quartz glass tubing with a heating system capable of maintaining a probe gas temperature at the exit end during sampling of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F), or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application. Because the actual temperature at the outlet of the probe is not usually monitored during sampling, probes constructed according to APTD-0581 and using the calibration curves of APTD-0576 (or calibrated according to the procedure outlined in APTD-0576) will be considered acceptable. Either borosilicate or quartz glass probe liners may be used for stack temperatures up to about 480 &#xB0;C (900 &#xB0;F); quartz liners shall be used for temperatures between 480 and 900 &#xB0;C (900 and 1,650 &#xB0;F). Both types of liners may be used at higher temperatures than specified for short periods of time, subject to the approval of the Administrator. The softening temperature for borosilicate glass is 820 &#xB0;C (1,500 &#xB0;F) and for quartz glass it is 1,500 &#xB0;C (2,700 &#xB0;F).

6.1.1.3 Pitot tube. Type S, as described in section 6.1 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, or other device approved by the Administrator. The pitot tube shall be attached to the probe (as shown in Figure 5-1 of Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A) to allow constant monitoring of the stack gas velocity. The impact (high pressure) opening plane of the pitot tube shall be even with or above the nozzle entry plane (see Method 2, Figure 2-6b, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A) during sampling. The Type S pitot tube assembly shall have a known coefficient, determined as outlined in section 10.0 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

6.1.1.4 Differential pressure gauge. Inclined manometer or equivalent device (two), as described in section 6.2 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. One manometer shall be used for velocity head (Dp) readings, and the other, for orifice differential pressure readings.

6.1.1.5 Filter holder. Borosilicate glass, with a glass frit filter support and a silicone rubber gasket. The holder design shall provide a positive seal against leakage from the outside or around the filter. The holder shall be attached immediately at the outlet of the probe (or cyclone, if used).

6.1.1.6 Filter heating system. Any heating system capable of maintaining a temperature around the filter holder of 120 +/-14 &#xB0;C (248 +/-25 &#xB0;F) during sampling, or such other temperature as specified by an applicable subpart of the standards or approved by the Administrator for a particular application. Alternatively, the tester may opt to operate the equipment at a temperature lower than that specified. A temperature gauge capable of measuring temperature to within 3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F) shall be installed so that the temperature around the filter holder can be regulated and monitored during sampling. Heating systems other than the one shown in APTD-0581 may be used.

6.1.1.7 Temperature sensor. A temperature sensor capable of measuring temperature to within +/-3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F) shall be installed so that the sensing tip of the temperature sensor is in direct contact with the sample gas, and the temperature around the filter holder can be regulated and monitored during sampling.

6.1.1.8 Condenser. The following system shall be used to determine the stack gas moisture content: four glass impingers connected in series with leak-free ground glass fittings. The first, third, and fourth impingers shall be of the Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3 cm (1/2 in.) ID glass tube extending to about 1.3 cm (1/2 in.) from the bottom of the flask. The second impinger shall be of the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip. The first and second impingers shall contain known quantities of water (section 8.3.1 of this method), the third shall be empty, and the fourth shall contain a known weight of silica gel or equivalent desiccant. A temperature sensor capable of measuring temperature to within 1 &#xB0;C (2 &#xB0;F) shall be placed at the outlet of the fourth impinger for monitoring.

6.1.1.9 Metering system. Vacuum gauge, leak-free pump, temperature sensors capable of measuring temperature to within 3 &#xB0;C (5.4 &#xB0;F), dry gas meter (DGM) capable of measuring volume to within 2 percent, and related equipment, as shown in Figure 5-1 of Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. Other metering systems capable of maintaining sampling rates within 10 percent of isokinetic and of determining sample volumes to within 2 percent may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. When the metering system is used in conjunction with a pitot tube, the system shall allow periodic checks of isokinetic rates.

6.1.1.10 Sampling trains using metering systems designed for higher flow rates than that described in APTD-0581 or APTD-0576 may be used provided that the specifications of this method are met.

6.1.2 Barometer. Mercury, aneroid, or other barometer capable of measuring atmospheric pressure to within 2.5 mm (0.1 in.) Hg.

6.1.3 Gas density determination equipment. Temperature sensor and pressure gauge, as described in sections 6.3 and 6.4 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, and gas analyzer, if necessary, as described in Method 3, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. The temperature sensor shall, preferably, be permanently attached to the pitot tube or sampling probe in a fixed configuration, such that the tip of the sensor extends beyond the leading edge of the probe sheath and does not touch any metal. Alternatively, the sensor may be attached just prior to use in the field. Note, however, that if the temperature sensor is attached in the field, the sensor must be placed in an interference-free arrangement with respect to the Type S pitot tube openings (see Method 2, Figure 2-4, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A). As a second alternative, if a difference of not more than 1 percent in the average velocity measurement is to be introduced, the temperature sensor need not be attached to the probe or pitot tube. (This alternative is subject to the approval of the Administrator.)

6.2 Sample recovery. The following items are required for sample recovery:

6.2.1 Probe-liner and probe-nozzle brushes. Nylon or Teflon &#xAE; bristle brushes with stainless steel wire handles. The probe brush shall have extensions (at least as long as the probe) constructed of stainless steel, nylon, Teflon &#xAE;, or similarly inert material. The brushes shall be properly sized and shaped to brush out the probe liner and nozzle.

6.2.2 Wash bottles. Glass wash bottles are recommended. Polyethylene or tetrafluoroethylene (TFE) wash bottles may be used, but they may introduce a positive bias due to contamination from the bottle. It is recommended that acetone not be stored in polyethylene or TFE bottles for longer than a month.

6.2.3 Glass sample storage containers. Chemically resistant, borosilicate glass bottles, for acetone and methylene chloride washes and impinger water, 500 ml or 1,000 ml. Screw-cap liners shall either be rubber-backed Teflon &#xAE; or shall be constructed so as to be leak-free and resistant to chemical attack by acetone or methylene chloride. (Narrow-mouth glass bottles have been found to be less prone to leakage.) Alternatively, polyethylene bottles may be used.

6.2.4 Petri dishes. For filter samples, glass, unless otherwise specified by the Administrator.

6.2.5 Graduated cylinder and/or balance. To measure condensed water, acetone wash and methylene chloride wash used during field recovery of the samples, to within 1 ml or 1 g. Graduated cylinders shall have subdivisions no greater than 2 ml. Most laboratory balances are capable of weighing to the nearest 0.5 g or less. Any such balance is suitable for use here and in section 6.3.4 of this method.

6.2.6 Plastic storage containers. Air-tight containers to store silica gel.

6.2.7 Funnel and rubber policeman. To aid in transfer of silica gel to container; not necessary if silica gel is weighed in the field.

6.2.8 Funnel. Glass or polyethylene, to aid in sample recovery.

6.3 Sample analysis. The following equipment is required for sample analysis:

6.3.1 Glass or Teflon &#xAE; weighing dishes.

6.3.2 Desiccator. It is recommended that fresh desiccant be used to minimize the chance for positive bias due to absorption of organic material during drying.

6.3.3 Analytical balance. To measure to within 0.l mg.

6.3.4 Balance. To measure to within 0.5 g.

6.3.5 Beakers. 250 ml.

6.3.6 Hygrometer. To measure the relative humidity of the laboratory environment.

6.3.7 Temperature sensor. To measure the temperature of the laboratory environment.

6.3.8 Buchner fritted funnel. 30 ml size, fine (<50 micron)-porosity fritted glass.

6.3.9 Pressure filtration apparatus.

6.3.10 Aluminum dish. Flat bottom, smooth sides, and flanged top, 18 mm deep and with an inside diameter of approximately 60 mm.

7.l Sample collection. The following reagents are required for sample collection:

7.1.1 Filters. Glass fiber filters, without organic binder, exhibiting at least 99.95 percent efficiency (<0.05 percent penetration) on 0.3 micron dioctyl phthalate smoke particles. The filter efficiency test shall be conducted in accordance with ASTM Method D 2986-95A (incorporated by reference in § 63.841 of this part). Test data from the supplier's quality control program are sufficient for this purpose. In sources containing S0or S0, the filter material must be of a type that is unreactive to S0or S0. Reference 10 in section 17.0 of this method may be used to select the appropriate filter.

7.1.2 Silica gel. Indicating type, 6 to l6 mesh. If previously used, dry at l75 &#xB0;C (350 &#xB0;F) for 2 hours. New silica gel may be used as received. Alternatively, other types of desiccants (equivalent or better) may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

7.1.3 Water. When analysis of the material caught in the impingers is required, deionized distilled water shall be used. Run blanks prior to field use to eliminate a high blank on test samples.

7.1.4 Crushed ice.

7.1.5 Stopcock grease. Acetone-insoluble, heat-stable silicone grease. This is not necessary if screw-on connectors with Teflon" sleeves, or similar, are used. Alternatively, other types of stopcock grease may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator. [Caution: Many stopcock greases are methylene chloride-soluble. Use sparingly and carefully remove prior to recovery to prevent contamination of the MCEM analysis.]

7.2 Sample recovery. The following reagents are required for sample recovery:

7.2.1 Acetone. Acetone with blank values <1 ppm, by weight residue, is required. Acetone blanks may be run prior to field use, and only acetone with low blank values may be used. In no case shall a blank value of greater than 1E-06 of the weight of acetone used be subtracted from the sample weight.

7.2.2 Methylene chloride. Methylene chloride with a blank value <1.5 ppm, by weight, residue. Methylene chloride blanks may be run prior to field use, and only methylene chloride with low blank values may be used. In no case shall a blank value of greater than 1.6E-06 of the weight of methylene chloride used be subtracted from the sample weight.

7.3 Sample analysis. The following reagents are required for sample analysis:

7.3.l Acetone. Same as in section 7.2.1 of this method.

7.3.2 Desiccant. Anhydrous calcium sulfate, indicating type. Alternatively, other types of desiccants may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

7.3.3 Methylene chloride. Same as in section 7.2.2 of this method.

8.1 Pretest preparation. It is suggested that sampling equipment be maintained according to the procedures described in APTD-0576. Alternative mercury-free thermometers may be used if the thermometers are at a minimum equivalent in terms of performance or suitably effective for the specific temperature measurement application.

8.1.1 Weigh several 200 g to 300 g portions of silica gel in airtight containers to the nearest 0.5 g. Record on each container the total weight of the silica gel plus container. As an alternative, the silica gel need not be preweighed but may be weighed directly in its impinger or sampling holder just prior to train assembly.

8.1.2 A batch of glass fiber filters, no more than 50 at a time, should placed in a soxhlet extraction apparatus and extracted using methylene chloride for at least 16 hours. After extraction, check filters visually against light for irregularities, flaws, or pinhole leaks. Label the shipping containers (glass or plastic petri dishes), and keep the filters in these containers at all times except during sampling and weighing.

8.1.3 Desiccate the filters at 20 +/-5.6 &#xB0;C (68 +/-10 &#xB0;F) and ambient pressure for at least 24 hours and weigh at intervals of at least 6 hours to a constant weight, i.e., <0.5 mg change from previous weighing; record results to the nearest 0.1 mg. During each weighing the filter must not be exposed to the laboratory atmosphere for longer than 2 minutes and a relative humidity above 50 percent. Alternatively (unless otherwise specified by the Administrator), the filters may be oven-dried at 104 &#xB0;C (220 &#xB0;F) for 2 to 3 hours, desiccated for 2 hours, and weighed. Procedures other than those described, which account for relative humidity effects, may be used, subject to the approval of the Administrator.

8.2 Preliminary determinations.

8.2.1 Select the sampling site and the minimum number of sampling points according to Method 1, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A or as specified by the Administrator. Determine the stack pressure, temperature, and the range of velocity heads using Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; it is recommended that a leak check of the pitot lines (see section 8.1 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A) be performed. Determine the moisture content using Approximation Method 4 (section 1.2 of Method 4, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A) or its alternatives to make isokinetic sampling rate settings. Determine the stack gas dry molecular weight, as described in section 8.6 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A; if integrated Method 3 sampling is used for molecular weight determination, the integrated bag sample shall be taken simultaneously with, and for the same total length of time as, the particulate sample run.

8.2.2 Select a nozzle size based on the range of velocity heads such that it is not necessary to change the nozzle size in order to maintain isokinetic sampling rates. During the run, do not change the nozzle size. Ensure that the proper differential pressure gauge is chosen for the range of velocity heads encountered (see section 8.2 of Method 2, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A).

8.2.3 Select a suitable probe liner and probe length such that all traverse points can be sampled. For large stacks, consider sampling from opposite sides of the stack to reduce the required probe length.

8.2.4 Select a total sampling time greater than or equal to the minimum total sampling time specified in the test procedures for the specific industry such that: (1) The sampling time per point is not less than 2 minutes (or some greater time interval as specified by the Administrator); and (2) the sample volume taken (corrected to standard conditions) will exceed the required minimum total gas sample volume. The latter is based on an approximate average sampling rate.

8.2.5 The sampling time at each point shall be the same. It is recommended that the number of minutes sampled at each point be an integer or an integer plus one-half minute, in order to eliminate timekeeping errors.

8.2.6 In some circumstances (e.g., batch cycles), it may be necessary to sample for shorter times at the traverse points and to obtain smaller gas sample volumes. In these cases, the Administrator's approval must first be obtained.

8.3 Preparation of sampling train.

8.3.1 During preparation and assembly of the sampling train, keep all openings where contamination can occur covered until just prior to assembly or until sampling is about to begin. Place l00 ml of water in each of the first two impingers, leave the third impinger empty, and transfer approximately 200 to 300 g of preweighed silica gel from its container to the fourth impinger. More silica gel may be used, but care should be taken to ensure that it is not entrained and carried out from the impinger during sampling. Place the container in a clean place for later use in the sample recovery. Alternatively, the weight of the silica gel plus impinger may be determined to the nearest 0.5 g and recorded.

8.3.2 Using a tweezer or clean disposable surgical gloves, place a labeled (identified) and weighed filter in the filter holder. Be sure that the filter is properly centered and the gasket properly placed so as to prevent the sample gas stream from circumventing the filter. Check the filter for tears after assembly is completed.

8.3.3 When glass liners are used, install the selected nozzle using a Viton A 0-ring when stack temperatures are less than 260 &#xB0;C (500 &#xB0;F) and an asbestos string gasket when temperatures are higher. See APTD-0576 for details. Mark the probe with heat-resistant tape or by some other method to denote the proper distance into the stack or duct for each sampling point.

8.3.4 Set up the train as in Figure 5-1 of Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, using (if necessary) a very light coat of silicone grease on all ground glass joints, greasing only the outer portion (see APTD-0576) to avoid possibility of contamination by the silicone grease. Subject to the approval of the Administrator, a glass cyclone may be used between the probe and filter holder when the total particulate catch is expected to exceed 100 mg or when water droplets are present in the stack gas.

8.3.5 Place crushed ice around the impingers.

8.4 Leak-check procedures.

8.4.1 Leak check of metering system shown in Figure 5-1 of Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A. That portion of the sampling train from the pump to the orifice meter should be leak-checked prior to initial use and after each shipment. Leakage after the pump will result in less volume being recorded than is actually sampled. The following procedure is suggested (see Figure 5-2 of Method 5, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A): Close the main valve on the meter box. Insert a one-hole rubber stopper with rubber tubing attached into the orifice exhaust pipe. Disconnect and vent the low side of the orifice manometer. Close off the low side orifice tap. Pressurize the system to 13 to 18 cm (5 to 7 in.) water column by blowing into the rubber tubing. Pinch off the tubing, and observe the manometer for 1 minute. A loss of pressure on the manometer indicates a leak in the meter box; leaks, if present, must be corrected.

8.4.2 Pretest leak check. A pretest leak-check is recommended but not required. If the pretest leak-check is conducted, the following procedure should be used.

8.4.2.1 After the sampling train has been assembled, turn on and set the filter and probe heating systems to the desired operating temperatures. Allow time for the temperatures to stabilize. If a Viton A 0-ring or other leak-free connection is used in assembling the probe nozzle to the probe liner, leak-check the train at the sampling site by plugging the nozzle and pulling a 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum.

8.4.2.2 If an asbestos string is used, do not connect the probe to the train during the leak check. Instead, leak-check the train by first plugging the inlet to the filter holder (cyclone, if applicable) and pulling a 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum. (See NOTE in section 8.4.2.1 of this method). Then connect the probe to the train and perform the leak check at approximately 25 mm (1 in.) Hg vacuum; alternatively, the probe may be leak-checked with the rest of the sampling train, in one step, at 380 mm (15 in.) Hg vacuum. Leakage rates in excess of 4 percent of the average sampling rate or 0.00057 m/min (0.02 cfm), whichever is less, are unacceptable.
