
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Method Range and Sensitivity.

1.2Analytical range and sensitivity depend on the frequency-dependent analyte absorptivity, instrument configuration, data collection parameters, and gas stream composition. Instrument factors include: (a) spectral resolution, (b) interferometer signal averaging time, (c) detector sensitivity and response, and (d) absorption path length.

1.2.1 For any optical configuration the analytical range is between the absorbance values of about .01 (infrared transmittance relative to the background = 0.98) and 1.0

1.2.2 The concentrations associated with this absorbance range depend primarily on the cell path length and the sample temperature. An analyte absorbance greater than 1.0, can be lowered by decreasing the optical path length. Analyte absorbance increases with a longer path length. Analyte detection also depends on the presence of other species exhibiting absorbance in the same analytical region. Additionally, the estimated lower absorbance (A) limit

1.2.3 The concentration range of this method is determined by the choice of optical configuration.

1.2.3.1 The absorbance for a given concentration can be decreased by decreasing the path length or by diluting the sample. There is no practical upper limit to the measurement range.

1.2.3.2 The analyte absorbance for a given concentration may be increased by increasing the cell path length or (to some extent) using a higher resolution. Both modifications also cause a corresponding increased absorbance for all compounds in the sample, and a decrease in the signal throughput. For this reason the practical lower detection range (quantitation limit) usually depends on sample characteristics such as moisture content of the gas, the presence of other interferants, and losses in the sampling system.
