
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Principle.

2.1References 4 through 7 provide background material on infrared spectroscopy and quantitative analysis. A summary is given in this section.

2.1.1 Infrared absorption spectroscopy is performed by directing an infrared beam through a sample to a detector. The frequency-dependent infrared absorbance of the sample is measured by comparing this detector signal (single beam spectrum) to a signal obtained without a sample in the beam path (background).

2.1.2 Most molecules absorb infrared radiation and the absorbance occurs in a characteristic and reproducible pattern. The infrared spectrum measures fundamental molecular properties and a compound can be identified from its infrared spectrum alone.

2.1.3 Within constraints, there is a linear relationship between infrared absorption and compound concentration. If this frequency dependent relationship (absorptivity) is known (measured), it can be used to determine compound concentration in a sample mixture.

2.1.4 Absorptivity is measured by preparing, in the laboratory, standard samples of compounds at known concentrations and measuring the FTIR "reference spectra" of these standard samples. These "reference spectra" are then used in sample analysis: (1) Compounds are detected by matching sample absorbance bands with bands in reference spectra, and (2) concentrations are measured by comparing sample band intensities with reference band intensities.

2.1.5 This method is self-validating provided that the results meet the performance requirement of the QA spike in sections 8.6.2 and 9.0 of this method, and results from a previous method validation study support the use of this method in the application.
