
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Data Quality.

1.4Data quality shall be determined by executing Protocol pre-test procedures in appendices B to H of the protocol and post-test procedures in appendices I and J of the protocol.

1.4.1 Measurement objectives shall be established by the choice of detection limit (DL) and analytical uncertainty (AU) for each analyte.

1.4.2 An instrumental configuration shall be selected. An estimate of gas composition shall be made based on previous test data, data from a similar source or information gathered in a pre-test site survey. Spectral interferants shall be identified using the selected DLand AUand band areas from reference spectra and interferant spectra. The baseline noise of the system shall be measured in each analytical region to determine the MAU of the instrument configuration for each analyte and interferant (MIU).

1.4.3 Data quality for the application shall be determined, in part, by measuring the RMS (root mean square) noise level in each analytical spectral region (appendix C of the Protocol). The RMS noise is defined as the RMSD of the absorbance values in an analytical region from the mean absorbance value in the region.

1.4.4 The MAU is the minimum analyte concentration for which the AUcan be maintained; if the measured analyte concentration is less than MAUthen data quality are unacceptable.
