
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Moisture.

4.2.4In addition to being a spectral interferant, condensed moisture removes soluble compounds.

The hazards of performing this method are those associated with any stack sampling method and the same precautions shall be followed. Many HAPs are suspected carcinogens or present other serious health risks. Exposure to these compounds should be avoided in all circumstances. For instructions on the safe handling of any particular compound, refer to its material safety data sheet. When using analyte standards, always ensure that gases are properly vented and that the gas handling system is leak free. (Always perform a leak check with the system under maximum vacuum and, again, with the system at greater than ambient pressure.) Refer to section 8.2 of this method for leak check procedures. This method does not address all of the potential safety risks associated with its use. Anyone performing this method must follow safety and health practices consistent with applicable legal requirements and with prudent practice for each application.

The equipment and supplies are based on the schematic of a sampling system shown in Figure 1. Either the batch or continuous sampling procedures may be used with this sampling system. Alternative sampling configurations may also be used, provided that the data quality objectives are met as determined in the post-analysis evaluation. Other equipment or supplies may be necessary, depending on the design of the sampling system or the specific target analytes.
