
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Reference Spectra.

7.3Obtain reference spectra for each analyte, interferant, surrogate, CTS, and tracer. If EPA reference spectra are not available, use reference spectra prepared according to procedures in section 4.6 of the EPA FTIR Protocol.

Three types of testing can be performed: (1) Screening, (2) emissions test, and (3) validation. Each is defined in section 3 of this method. Determine the purpose(s) of the FTIR test. Test requirements include: (a) AU, DL, overall fractional uncertainty, OFU, maximum expected concentration (CMAX), and tfor each, (b) potential interferants, (c) sampling system factors, e.g., minimum absolute cell pressure, (P), FTIR cell volume (V), estimated sample absorption pathlength, L&#x2032;, estimated sample pressure, P&#x2032;, T&#x2032;, signal integration time (t), minimum instrumental linewidth, MIL, fractional error, and (d) analytical regions, e.g., m = 1 to M, lower wavenumber position, FLm, center wavenumber position, FC, and upper wavenumber position, FU, plus interferants, upper wavenumber position of the CTS absorption band, FFU, lower wavenumber position of the CTS absorption band, FFL, wavenumber range FNU to FNL. If necessary, sample and acquire an initial spectrum. From analysis of this preliminary spectrum determine a suitable operational path length. Set up the sampling train as shown in Figure 1 or use an appropriate alternative configuration. Sections 8.1 through 8.11 of this method provide guidance on pre-test calculations in the EPA protocol, sampling and analytical procedures, and post-test protocol calculations.
