
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Detector Linearity.

8.3Once an optical configuration is chosen, use one of the procedures of sections 8.3.1 through 8.3.3 to verify that the detector response is linear. If the detector response is not linear, decrease the aperture, or attenuate the infrared beam. After a change in the instrument configuration perform a linearity check until it is demonstrated that the detector response is linear.

8.3.1 Vary the power incident on the detector by modifying the aperture setting. Measure the background and CTS at three instrument aperture settings: (1) at the aperture setting to be used in the testing, (2) at one half this aperture and (3) at twice the proposed testing aperture. Compare the three CTS spectra. CTS band areas shall agree to within the uncertainty of the cylinder standard and the RMSD noise in the system. If test aperture is the maximum aperture, collect CTS spectrum at maximum aperture, then close the aperture to reduce the IR throughput by half. Collect a second background and CTS at the smaller aperture setting and compare the spectra again.

8.3.2 Use neutral density filters to attenuate the infrared beam. Set up the FTIR system as it will be used in the test measurements. Collect a CTS spectrum. Use a neutral density filter to attenuate the infrared beam (either immediately after the source or the interferometer) to approximatelyits original intensity. Collect a second CTS spectrum. Use another filter to attenuate the infrared beam to approximatelyits original intensity. Collect a third background and CTS spectrum. Compare the CTS spectra. CTS band areas shall agree to within the uncertainty of the cylinder standard and the RMSD noise in the system.

8.3.3 Observe the single beam instrument response in a frequency region where the detector response is known to be zero. Verify that the detector response is "flat" and equal to zero in these regions.
