
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Sampling.

8.7If analyte concentrations vary rapidly with time, continuous sampling is preferable using the smallest cell volume, fastest sampling rate and fastest spectra collection rate possible. Continuous sampling requires the least operator intervention even without an automated sampling system. For continuous monitoring at one location over long periods, Continuous sampling is preferred. Batch sampling and continuous static sampling are used for screening and performing test runs of finite duration. Either technique is preferred for sampling several locations in a matter of days. Batch sampling gives reasonably good time resolution and ensures that each spectrum measures a discreet (and unique) sample volume. Continuous static (and continuous) sampling provide a very stable background over long periods. Like batch sampling, continuous static sampling also ensures that each spectrum measures a unique sample volume. It is essential that the leak check procedure under vacuum (section 8.2 of this method) is passed if the batch sampling procedure is used. It is essential that the leak check procedure under positive pressure is passed if the continuous static or continuous sampling procedures are used. The sampling techniques are described in sections 8.7.1 through 8.7.2 of this method.
