
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Spiking Procedure.

9.2QA spiking (section 8.6.2 of this method) is a calibration procedure used before testing. QA spiking involves following the spike procedure of sections 9.2.1 through 9.2.3 of this method to obtain at least three spiked samples. The analyte concentrations in the spiked samples shall be compared to the expected spike concentration to verify that the sampling/analytical system is working properly. Usually, when QA spiking is used, the method has already been validated at a similar source for the analyte in question. The QA spike demonstrates that the validated sampling/analytical conditions are being duplicated. If the QA spike fails then the sampling/analytical system shall be repaired before testing proceeds. The method validation procedure (section 13.0 of this method) involves a more extensive use of the analyte spike procedure of sections 9.2.1 through 9.2.3 of this method. Spectra of at least 12 independent spiked and 12 independent unspiked samples are recorded. The concentration results are analyzed statistically to determine if there is a systematic bias in the method for measuring a particular analyte. If there is a systematic bias, within the limits allowed by Method 301 of this appendix, then a correction factor shall be applied to the analytical results. If the systematic bias is greater than the allowed limits, this method is not valid and cannot be used.

9.2.1 Introduce the spike/tracer gas at a constant flow rate of &#x2264;10 percent of the total sample flow, when possible.

Use a flow device, e.g., mass flow meter (# 2 percent), to monitor the spike flow rate. Record the spike flow rate every 10 minutes.

9.2.2 Determine the response time (RT) of the system by continuously collecting spectra of the spiked effluent until the spectrum of the spiked component is constant for 5 minutes. The RT is the interval from the first measurement until the spike becomes constant. Wait for twice the duration of the RT, then collect spectra of two independent spiked gas samples. Duplicate analyses of the spiked concentration shall be within 5 percent of the mean of the two measurements.

9.2.3 Calculate the dilution ratio using the tracer gas as follows:
