
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Applicability.

2.1This Protocol applies to the determination of compound-specific concentrations in single- and multiple-component gas phase samples using double-beam absorption spectroscopy in the mid-infrared band. It does not specifically address other FTIR applications, such as single-beam spectroscopy, analysis of open-path (non-enclosed) samples, and continuous measurement techniques. If multiple spectrometers, absorption cells, or instrumental linewidths are used in such analyses, each distinct operational configuration of the system must be evaluated separately according to this Protocol.

2.2 Analytical Principle

2.2.1 In the mid-infrared band, most molecules exhibit characteristic gas phase absorption spectra that may be recorded by FTIR systems. Such systems consist of a source of mid-infrared radiation, an interferometer, an enclosed sample cell of known absorption pathlength, an infrared detector, optical elements for the transfer of infrared radiation between components, and gas flow control and measurement components. Adjunct and integral computer systems are used for controlling the instrument, processing the signal, and for performing both Fourier transforms and quantitative analyses of spectral data.

2.2.2 The absorption spectra of pure gases and of mixtures of gases are described by a linear absorbance theory referred to as Beer's Law. Using this law, modern FTIR systems use computerized analytical programs to quantify compounds by comparing the absorption spectra of known (reference) gas samples to the absorption spectrum of the sample gas. Some standard mathematical techniques used for comparisons are classical least squares, inverse least squares, cross-correlation, factor analysis, and partial least squares. Reference A describes several of these techniques, as well as additional techniques, such as differentiation methods, linear baseline corrections, and non-linear absorbance corrections.

The characteristics that distinguish FTIR systems from gas analyzers used in instrumental gas analysis methods (e.g., Methods 6C and 7E of appendix A to part 60 of this chapter) are: (1) Computers are necessary to obtain and analyze data; (2) chemical concentrations can be quantified using previously recorded infrared reference spectra; and (3) analytical assumptions and results, including possible effects of interfering compounds, can be evaluated after the quantitative analysis. The following general principles and requirements of this Protocol are based on these characteristics.
