
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Correction Factor.

13.4.2Use section 6.3.2.2 of Method 301 of this appendix to evaluate the statistical significance of the bias. If it is determined that the bias is significant, then use section 6.3.3 of Method 301 to calculate a correction factor (CF). Analytical results of the test method are multiplied by the correction factor, if 0.7 &#x2264;CF &#x2264;1.3. If is determined that the bias is significant and CF >+/-30 percent, then the test method is considered to "not valid."

13.4.3 If measurements do not pass validation, evaluate the sampling system, instrument configuration, and analytical system to determine if improper set-up or a malfunction was the cause. If so, repair the system and repeat the validation.

The extracted sample gas is vented outside the enclosure containing the FTIR system and gas manifold after the analysis. In typical method applications the vented sample volume is a small fraction of the source volumetric flow and its composition is identical to that emitted from the source. When analyte spiking is used, spiked pollutants are vented with the extracted sample gas. Approximately 1.6 x 10to 3.2 x 10lbs of a single HAP may be vented to the atmosphere in a typical validation run of 3 hours. (This assumes a molar mass of 50 to 100 g, spike rate of 1.0 L/min, and a standard concentration of 100 ppm). Minimize emissions by keeping the spike flow off when not in use.

Small volumes of laboratory gas standards can be vented through a laboratory hood. Neat samples must be packed and disposed according to applicable regulations. Surplus materials may be returned to supplier for disposal.

1. "Field Validation Test Using Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry To Measure Formaldehyde, Phenol and Methanol at a Wool Fiberglass Production Facility." Draft. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Report, EPA Contract No. 68D20163, Work Assignment I-32, September 1994.

2. "FTIR Method Validation at a Coal-Fired Boiler". Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. Publication No.: EPA-454/R95-004, NTIS No.: PB95-193199. July, 1993.

3. "Method 301-Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods from Various Waste Media," 40 CFR part 63, appendix A.

4. "Molecular Vibrations; The Theory of Infrared and Raman Vibrational Spectra," E. Bright Wilson, J.C. Decius, and P.C. Cross, Dover Publications, Inc., 1980. For a less intensive treatment of molecular rotational-vibrational spectra see, for example, "Physical Chemistry," G.M. Barrow, chapters 12, 13, and 14, McGraw Hill, Inc., 1979.

5. "Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry," Peter R. Griffiths and James de Haseth, Chemical Analysis, 83, 16-25,(1986), P.J. Elving, J.;D. Winefordner and I.M. Kolthoff (ed.), John Wiley and Sons.

6. "Computer-Assisted Quantitative Infrared Spectroscopy," Gregory L. McClure (ed.), ASTM Special Publication 934 (ASTM), 1987.

7. "Multivariate Least-Squares Methods Applied to the Quantitative Spectral Analysis of Multicomponent Mixtures," Applied Spectroscopy, 39(10), 73-84, 1985.

The purpose of this addendum is to set general guidelines for the use of modern FTIR spectroscopic methods for the analysis of gas samples extracted from the effluent of stationary emission sources. This addendum outlines techniques for developing and evaluating such methods and sets basic requirements for reporting and quality assurance procedures.

1.1 Nomenclature

1.1.1 Appendix A to this addendum lists definitions of the symbols and terms used in this Protocol, many of which have been taken directly from American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) publication E 131-90a, entitled "Terminology Relating to Molecular Spectroscopy."

1.1.2 Except in the case of background spectra or where otherwise noted, the term "spectrum" refers to a double-beam spectrum in units of absorbance vs. wavenumber (cm).

1.1.3 The term "Study" in this addendum refers to a publication that has been subjected to EPA- or peer-review.
