
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Pressure.

12.2.4Accuracy depends on the accuracy of the barometer, but fluctuations in pressure throughout a day may be as much as 2.5 percent due to weather variations.

This validation procedure, which is based on EPA Method 301 (40 CFR part 63, appendix (A), may be used to validate this method for the analytes in a gas matrix. Validation at one source may also apply to another type of source, if it can be shown that the exhaust gas characteristics are similar at both sources.

13.1 Section 6.0 of Method 301 (40 CFR part 63, appendix A), the Analyte Spike procedure, is used with these modifications. The statistical analysis of the results follows section 12.0 of EPA Method 301. Section 3 of this method defines terms that are not defined in Method 301.

13.1.1 The analyte spike is performed dynamically. This means the spike flow is continuous and constant as spiked samples are measured.

13.1.2 The spike gas is introduced at the back of the sample probe.

13.1.3 Spiked effluent is carried through all sampling components downstream of the probe.

13.1.4 A single FTIR system (or more) may be used to collect and analyze spectra (not quadruplicate integrated sampling trains).

13.1.5 All of the validation measurements are performed sequentially in a single "run" (section 3.26 of this method).

13.1.6 The measurements analyzed statistically are each independent (section 3.22 of this method).

13.1.7 A validation data set can consist of more than 12 spiked and 12 unspiked measurements.
