
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Batch Sampling.

13.2The procedure in sections 13.2.1 through 13.2.2 may be used for stable processes. If process emissions are highly variable, the procedure in section 13.2.3 shall be used.

13.2.1 With a single FTIR instrument and sampling system, begin by collecting spectra of two unspiked samples. Introduce the spike flow into the sampling system and allow 10 cell volumes to purge the sampling system and FTIR cell. Collect spectra of two spiked samples. Turn off the spike and allow 10 cell volumes of unspiked sample to purge the FTIR cell. Repeat this procedure until the 24 (or more) samples are collected.

13.2.2 In batch sampling, collect spectra of 24 distinct samples. (Each distinct sample consists of filling the cell to ambient pressure after the cell has been evacuated.)

13.2.3 Alternatively, a separate probe assembly, line, and sample pump can be used for spiked sample. Verify and document that sampling conditions are the same in both the spiked and the unspiked sampling systems. This can be done by wrapping both sample lines in the same heated bundle. Keep the same flow rate in both sample lines. Measure samples in sequence in pairs. After two spiked samples are measured, evacuate the FTIR cell, and turn the manifold valve so that spiked sample flows to the FTIR cell. Allow the connecting line from the manifold to the FTIR cell to purge thoroughly (the time depends on the line length and flow rate). Collect a pair of spiked samples. Repeat the procedure until at least 24 measurements are completed.

13.3 Simultaneous Measurements With Two FTIR Systems. If unspiked effluent concentrations of the target analyte(s) vary significantly with time, it may be desirable to perform synchronized measurements of spiked and unspiked sample. Use two FTIR systems, each with its own cell and sampling system to perform simultaneous spiked and unspiked measurements. The optical configurations shall be similar, if possible. The sampling configurations shall be the same. One sampling system and FTIR analyzer shall be used to measure spiked effluent. The other sampling system and FTIR analyzer shall be used to measure unspiked flue gas. Both systems shall use the same sampling procedure (i.e., batch or continuous).

13.3.1 If batch sampling is used, synchronize the cell evacuation, cell filling, and collection of spectra. Fill both cells at the same rate (in cell volumes per unit time).

13.3.2 If continuous sampling is used, adjust the sample flow through each gas cell so that the same number of cell volumes pass through each cell in a given time (i.e. TC= TC).
