
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Self-Prepared Chemical Standards.

4.6.2.2Chemical standards may be prepared by diluting certified commercially prepared chemical gases or pure analytes with ultra-pure carrier (UPC) grade nitrogen according to the barometric and volumetric techniques generally described in Reference A, section A4.6.

4.6.3 Record a set of the absorption spectra of the CTS {R1}, then a set of the reference spectra at two or more concentrations in duplicate over the desired range (the top of the range must be less than 10 times that of the bottom), followed by a second set of CTS spectra {R2}. (If self-prepared standards are used, see section 4.6.5 of this addendum before disposing of any of the standards.) The maximum accepted standard concentration-pathlength product (ASCPP) for each compound shall be higher than the maximum estimated concentration-pathlength products for both analytes and known interferants in the effluent gas. For each analyte, the minimum ASCPP shall be no greater than ten times the concentration-pathlength product of that analyte at its required detection limit.

4.6.4 Permanently store the background and interferograms in digitized form. Document details of the mathematical process for generating the spectra from these interferograms. Record the sample pressure (P), sample temperature (T), reference absorption pathlength (L), and interferogram signal integration period (t). Signal integration periods for the background interferograms shall be ≥t. Values of P, L, and tshall not deviate by more than +/-1 percent from the time of recording [R1] to that of recording [R2].

4.6.5 If self-prepared chemical standards are employed and spectra of only two concentrations are recorded for one or more compounds, verify the accuracy of the dilution technique by analyzing the prepared standards for those compounds with a secondary (non-FTIR) technique in accordance with sections 4.6.5.1 through 4.6.5.4 of this addendum.

4.6.5.1 Record the response of the secondary technique to each of the four standards prepared.

4.6.5.2 Perform a linear regression of the response values (dependant variable) versus the accepted standard concentration (ASC) values (independent variable), with the regression constrained to pass through the zero-response, zero ASC point.

4.6.5.3 Calculate the average fractional difference between the actual response values and the regression-predicted values (those calculated from the regression line using the four ASC values as the independent variable).

4.6.5.4 If the average fractional difference value calculated in section 4.6.5.3 of this addendum is larger for any compound than the corresponding AU, the dilution technique is not sufficiently accurate and the reference spectra prepared are not valid for the analysis.
