
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Select Spectroscopic System.

4.4Select a spectroscopic configuration for the application. Approximate the absorption pathlength (L&#x2032;, meter), sample pressure (P&#x2032;, kPa), absolute sample temperature T&#x2032;, and signal integration period (t, seconds) for the analysis. Specify the nominal minimum instrumental linewidth (MIL) of the system. Verify that the fractional error at the approximate values P&#x2032; and T&#x2032; is less than one half the smallest value AU(see section 4.1.2 of this addendum).

4.5 Select Calibration Transfer Standards (CTS's). Select CTS's that meet the criteria listed in sections 4.5.1, 4.5.2, and 4.5.3 of this addendum.

4.5.1 The central wavenumber position of each analytical region shall lie within 25 percent of the wavenumber position of at least one CTS absorption band.

4.5.2 The absorption bands in section 4.5.1 of this addendum shall exhibit peak absorbances greater than ten times the value RMS(see section 4.12 of this addendum) but less than 1.5 absorbance units.

4.5.3 At least one absorption CTS band within the operating range of the FTIR instrument shall have an instrument-independent linewidth no greater than the narrowest analyte absorption band. Perform and document measurements or cite Studies to determine analyte and CTS compound linewidths.

4.5.4 For each analytical region, specify the upper and lower wavenumber positions (FFUand FFL, respectively) that bracket the CTS absorption band or bands for the associated analytical region. Specify the wavenumber range, FNU to FNL, containing the absorption band that meets the criterion of section 4.5.3 of this addendum.

4.5.5 Associate, whenever possible, a single set of CTS gas cylinders with a set of reference spectra. Replacement CTS gas cylinders shall contain the same compounds at concentrations within 5 percent of that of the original CTS cylinders; the entire absorption spectra (not individual spectral segments) of the replacement gas shall be scaled by a factor between 0.95 and 1.05 to match the original CTS spectra.

4.6 Prepare Reference Spectra

4.6.1 Select the reference absorption pathlength (L) of the cell.

4.6.2 Obtain or prepare a set of chemical standards for each analyte, potential and known spectral interferants, and CTS. Select the concentrations of the chemical standards to correspond to the top of the desired range.
