
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Identify Known Interferants.

4.9Using appendix B of this addendum, determine which potential interferants affect the analyte concentration determinations. Relabel these potential interferant as "known" interferants, and designate these compounds from k = 1 to K. Appendix B to this addendum also provides criteria for determining whether the selected analytical regions are suitable.

4.10 Prepare Computerized Analytical Programs

4.10.1 Choose or devise mathematical techniques (e.g, classical least squares, inverse least squares, cross-correlation, and factor analysis) based on equation 4 of Reference A that are appropriate for analyzing spectral data by comparison with reference spectra.

4.10.2 Following the general recommendations of Reference A, prepare a computer program or set of programs that analyzes all of the analytes and known interferants, based on the selected analytical regions (section 4.7 of this addendum) and the prepared reference spectra (section 4.6 of this addendum). Specify the baseline correction technique (e.g., determining the slope and intercept of a linear baseline contribution in each analytical region) for each analytical region, including all relevant wavenumber positions.

4.10.3 Use programs that provide as output [at the reference absorption pathlength (L), reference gas temperature (T), and reference gas pressure (P)] the analyte concentrations, the known interferant concentrations, and the baseline slope and intercept values. If the sample absorption pathlength (L), sample gas temperature (T), or sample gas pressure (P) during the actual sample analyses differ from L, T, and P, use a program or set of programs that applies multiplicative corrections to the derived concentrations to account for these variations, and that provides as output both the corrected and uncorrected values. Include in the report of the analysis (see section 7.0 of this addendum) the details of any transformations applied to the original reference spectra (e.g., differentiation), in such a fashion that all analytical results may be verified by an independent agent from the reference spectra and data spectra alone.
