
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Determine Fractional Analysis Uncertainty.

5.6Fill the absorption cell with CTS at the pressure P. Record a set of CTS spectra [R4]. Store the background and CTS single beam interferograms. Using appendix H of this addendum, calculate the fractional analysis uncertainty (FAU) for each analytical region. If the FAU indicated for any analytical region is greater than the required accuracy requirements determined in sections 4.1.1 through 4.1.4 of this addendum, then comparisons to previously recorded reference spectra are invalid in that analytical region, and the analyst shall perform one or both of the procedures of sections 5.6.1 through 5.6.2 of this addendum.

5.6.1 Perform instrumental checks and adjust the instrument to restore its performance to acceptable levels. If adjustments are made, repeat sections 5.3, 5.4 (except for the recording of a sample spectrum), and 5.5 of this addendum to demonstrate that acceptable uncertainties are obtained in all analytical regions.

5.6.2 Apply appropriate mathematical transformations (e.g., frequency shifting, zero-filling, apodization, smoothing) to the spectra (or to the interferograms upon which the spectra are based) generated during the performance of the procedures of section 5.3 of this addendum. Document these transformations and their reproducibility. Do not apply multiplicative scaling of the spectra, or any set of transformations that is mathematically equivalent to multiplicative scaling. Different transformations may be applied to different analytical regions. Frequency shifts shall be less than one-half the minimum instrumental linewidth, and must be applied to all spectral data points in an analytical region. The mathematical transformations may be retained for the analysis if they are also applied to the appropriate analytical regions of all sample spectra recorded, and if all original sample spectra are digitally stored. Repeat sections 5.3, 5.4 (except the recording of a sample spectrum), and 5.5 of this addendum to demonstrate that these transformations lead to acceptable calculated concentration uncertainties in all analytical regions.

Estimate the overall accuracy of the analyses performed in accordance with sections 5.1 through 5.6 of this addendum using the procedures of sections 6.1 through 6.3 of this addendum.
