
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Fractional Analysis Uncertainty.

H.2.2Perform and document separate linear baseline corrections to each analytical region in the spectral sets {R1} and {R4}. Form the arrays Aand Aas described in section H.2.1 of this appendix, using values from {R1} to form A, and values from {R4} to form A. Calculate NRMSand IAusing equations H.2 and H.3,

The fractional analytical uncertainty, FAU, is given by equation H.4,

To prepare analytical programs for FTIR analyses, the sample constituents must first be assumed. The calculations in this appendix, based upon a simulation of the sample spectrum, shall be used to verify the appropriateness of these assumptions. The simulated spectra consist of the sum of single compound reference spectra scaled to represent their contributions to the sample absorbance spectrum; scaling factors are based on the indicated standard concentrations (ISC) and measured (sample) analyte and interferant concentrations, the sample and reference absorption pathlengths, and the sample and reference gas pressures. No band-shape correction for differences in the temperature of the sample and reference spectra gases is made; such errors are included in the FMU estimate. The actual and simulated sample spectra are quantitatively compared to determine the fractional model uncertainty; this comparison uses the reference spectra band areas and residuals in the difference spectrum formed from the actual and simulated sample spectra.

I.2.1 For each analyte (with scaled concentration RSA), select a reference spectrum SAwith indicated standard concentration ISC. Calculate the scaling factors, RA, using equation I.1,

I.2.2 For each interferant, select a reference spectrum SIwith indicated standard concentration ISC. Calculate the scaling factors, RI, using equation I.2,

I.2.3 For each analytical region, determine by visual inspection which of the spectra SACand SICexhibit absorbance bands within the analytical region. Subtract each spectrum SACand SICexhibiting absorbance from the sample spectrum Sto form the spectrum SUB. To save analysis time and to avoid the introduction of unwanted noise into the subtracted spectrum, it is recommended that the calculation be made (1) only for those spectral data points within the analytical regions, and (2) for each analytical region separately using the original spectrum S.

I.2.4 For each analytical region m, calculate the RMSD of SUBbetween the absorbance values and their mean in the region FFUto FFL. Denote the result by RMSS.

I.2.5 For each analyte i, calculate FM, using equation I.3,

I.2.6 If only the manalytical region is used to calculate the concentration of the ianalyte, set FMU= FM.

I.2.7 If a number of analytical regions are used to calculate the concentration of the ianalyte, set FMequal to the weighted mean of the appropriate FMvalues calculated using equation I-3. Mathematically, if the set of analytical regions employed is {m&#x2032;}, then the fractional model uncertainty, FMU, is given by equation I.4,

The calculations in this addendum estimate the measurement uncertainties for various FTIR measurements. The lowest possible overall concentration uncertainty (OCU) for an analyte is its MAU value, which is an estimate of the absolute concentration uncertainty when spectral noise dominates the measurement error. However, if the product of the largest fractional concentration uncertainty (FRU, FCU, FAU, or FMU) and the measured concentration of an analyte exceeds the MAU for the analyte, then the OCU is this product. In mathematical terms, set OFU= MAX{FRU, FCU, FAU, FMU} and OCU= MAX{RSA*OFU, MAU}.

This method should be performed by those persons familiar with the operation of Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) instrumentation in the application to source sampling. This document describes the sampling procedures for use in the application of FTIR spectrometry for the determination of vapor phase hydrogen chloride (HCl) concentrations both before and after particulate matter control devices installed at portland cement kilns. A procedure for analyte spiking is included for quality assurance. This method is considered to be self validating provided that the requirements listed in section 9 of this method are followed. The analytical procedures for interpreting infrared spectra from emission measurements are described in the "Protocol For The Use of Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry in Analyses of Gaseous Emissions From Stationary Industrial Sources", included as an addendum to proposed Method 320 of this appendix (hereafter referred to as the "FTIR Protocol)". References 1 and 2 describe the use of FTIR spectrometry in field measurements. Sample transport presents the principal difficulty in directly measuring HCl emissions. This identical problem must be overcome by any extractive measurement method. HCl is reactive and water soluble. The sampling system must be adequately designed to prevent sample condensation in the system.

1.1 Scope and Application

This method is specifically designed for the application of FTIR Spectrometry in extractive measurements of gaseous HCl concentrations in portland cement kiln emissions.

This method applies to the measurement of HCl [CAS No. 7647-01-0]. This method can be applied to the determination of HCl concentrations both before and after particulate matter control devices installed at portland cement manufacturing facilities. This method applies to either continuous flow through measurement (with isolated sample analysis) or grab sampling (batch analysis). HCl is measured using the mid-infrared spectral region for analysis (about 400 to 4000 cmor 25 to 2.5 µm). Table 1 lists the suggested analytical region for quantification of HCl taking the interference from water vapor into consideration.

1.3 Method Range and Sensitivity

1.3.1 The analytical range is determined by the instrumental design and the composition of the gas stream. For practical purposes there is no upper limit to the range because the pathlength may be reduced or the sample may be diluted. The lower detection range depends on (1) the absorption coefficient of the compound in the analytical frequency region, (2) the spectral resolution, (3) the interferometer sampling time, (4) the detector sensitivity and response, and (5) the absorption pathlength.

1.3.2 The practical lower quantification range is usually higher than that indicated by the instrument performance in the laboratory, and is dependent upon (1) the presence of interfering species in the exhaust gas (notably HO), (2) the optical alignment of the gas cell and transfer optics, and (3) the quality of the reflective surfaces in the cell (cell throughput). Under typical test conditions (moisture content of up to 30 percent, 10 meter absorption path length, liquid nitrogen-cooled IR detector, 0.5 cmresolution, and an interferometer sampling time of 60 seconds) a typical lower quantification range for HCl is 0.1 to 1.0 ppm.

1.4 Data Quality Objectives

1.4.1 In designing or configuring the analytical system, data quality is determined by measuring of the root mean square deviation (RMSD) of the absorbance values within a chosen spectral (analytical) region. The RMSD provides an indication of the signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) of the spectral baseline. Appendix D of the FTIR Protocol (the addendum to Method 320 of this appendix) presents a discussion of the relationship between the RMSD, lower detection limit, DL, and analytical uncertainty, AU. It is important to consider the target analyte quantification limit when performing testing with FTIR instrumentation, and to optimize the system to achieve the desired detection limit.
