
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Definitions of Mathematical Symbols.

A.2The symbols used in equations in this protocol are defined as follows:

(1) A, absorbance = the logarithm to the base 10 of the reciprocal of the transmittance (T).

(2) AAI= band area of the ianalyte in the manalytical region, at the concentration (CL) corresponding to the product of its required detection limit (DL) and analytical uncertainty limit (AU) .

(3) AAV= average absorbance of the ianalyte in the manalytical region, at the concentration (CL) corresponding to the product of its required detection limit (DL) and analytical uncertainty limit (AU).

(4) ASC, accepted standard concentration = the concentration value assigned to a chemical standard.

(5) ASCPP, accepted standard concentration-pathlength product = for a chemical standard, the product of the ASC and the sample absorption pathlength. The units "centimeters-ppm" or "meters-ppm" are recommended.

(6) AU, analytical uncertainty limit = the maximum permissible fractional uncertainty of analysis for the ianalyte concentration, expressed as a fraction of the analyte concentration determined in the analysis.

(7) AVT= average estimated total absorbance in the manalytical region.

(8) CKWN= estimated concentration of the kknown interferant.

(9) CMAX= estimated maximum concentration of the ianalyte.

(10) CPOT= estimated concentration of the jpotential interferant.

(11) DL, required detection limit = for the ianalyte, the lowest concentration of the analyte for which its overall fractional uncertainty (OFU) is required to be less than the analytical uncertainty limit (AU).

(12) FC= center wavenumber position of the manalytical region.

(13) FAU, fractional analytical uncertainty = calculated uncertainty in the measured concentration of the ianalyte because of errors in the mathematical comparison of reference and sample spectra.

(14) FCU, fractional calibration uncertainty = calculated uncertainty in the measured concentration of the ianalyte because of errors in Beer's law modeling of the reference spectra concentrations.

(15) FFL= lower wavenumber position of the CTS absorption band associated with the manalytical region.

(16) FFU= upper wavenumber position of the CTS absorption band associated with the manalytical region.

(17) FL= lower wavenumber position of the manalytical region.

(18) FMU, fractional model uncertainty = calculated uncertainty in the measured concentration of the ianalyte because of errors in the absorption model employed.

(19) FN= lower wavenumber position of the CTS spectrum containing an absorption band at least as narrow as the analyte absorption bands.

(20) FN= upper wavenumber position of the CTS spectrum containing an absorption band at least as narrow as the analyte absorption bands.

(21) FRU, fractional reproducibility uncertainty = calculated uncertainty in the measured concentration of the ianalyte because of errors in the reproducibility of spectra from the FTIR system.

(22) FU= upper wavenumber position of the manalytical region.

(23) IAI= band area of the jpotential interferant in the manalytical region, at its expected concentration (CPOT).

(24) IAV= average absorbance of the ianalyte in the manalytical region, at its expected concentration (CPOT).

(25) ISC, indicated standard concentration = the concentration from the computerized analytical program for a single-compound reference spectrum for the ianalyte or kknown interferant.

(26) kPa = kilo-Pascal (see Pascal).

(27) L&#x2032; = estimated sample absorption pathlength.

(28) L= reference absorption pathlength.

(29) L= actual sample absorption pathlength.

(30) MAU= mean of the MAUover the appropriate analytical regions.

(31) MAU, minimum analyte uncertainty = the calculated minimum concentration for which the analytical uncertainty limit (AU) in the measurement of the ianalyte, based on spectral data in the manalytical region, can be maintained.

(32) MIU= mean of the MIUover the appropriate analytical regions.

(33) MIU, minimum interferant uncertainty = the calculated minimum concentration for which the analytical uncertainty limit CPOT/20 in the measurement of the jinterferant, based on spectral data in the manalytical region, can be maintained.

(34) MIL, minimum instrumental linewidth = the minimum linewidth from the FTIR system, in wavenumbers.

(35) N= number of analytes.

(36) N= number of potential interferants.

(37) N= number of known interferants.

(38) N= the number of scans averaged to obtain an interferogram.

(39) OFU= the overall fractional uncertainty in an analyte concentration determined in the analysis (OFU= MAX[FRU, FCU, FAU, FMU]).

(40) Pascal (Pa) = metric unit of static pressure, equal to one Newton per square meter; one atmosphere is equal to 101,325 Pa; 1/760 atmosphere (one Torr, or one millimeter Hg) is equal to 133.322 Pa.

(41) P= minimum pressure of the sampling system during the sampling procedure.

(42) P&#x2032; = estimated sample pressure.

(43) P= reference pressure.

(44) P= actual sample pressure.

(45) RMS= measured noise level of the FTIR system in the manalytical region.

(46) RMSD, root mean square difference = a measure of accuracy determined by the following equation:

(47) RSA= the (calculated) final concentration of the ianalyte.

(48) RSI= the (calculated) final concentration of the kknown interferant.

(49) t, scan time = time used to acquire a single scan, not including flyback.

(50) t, signal integration period = the period of time over which an interferogram is averaged by addition and scaling of individual scans. In terms of the number of scans Nand scan time t, t= Nt.

(51) t= signal integration period used in recording reference spectra.

(52) t= signal integration period used in recording sample spectra.

(53) T= absolute temperature of gases used in recording reference spectra.

(54) T= absolute temperature of sample gas as sample spectra are recorded.

(55) TP, Throughput = manufacturer's estimate of the fraction of the total infrared power transmitted by the absorption cell and transfer optics from the interferometer to the detector.

(56) V= volume of the infrared absorption cell, including parts of attached tubing.

(57) W= weight used to average over analytical regions k for quantities related to the analyte i; see appendix D of this addendum.

B.1.1 Assume a fixed absorption pathlength equal to the value L&#x2032;.

B.1.2 Use band area calculations to compare the relative absorption strengths of the analytes and potential interferants. In the manalytical region (FLto FU), use either rectangular or trapezoidal approximations to determine the band areas described below (see Reference A, sections A.3.1 through A.3.3). Document any baseline corrections applied to the spectra.

B.1.3 Use the average total absorbance of the analytes and potential interferants in each analytical region to determine whether the analytical region is suitable for analyte concentration determinations.

B.2.1 Prepare spectral representations of each analyte at the concentration CL= (DL)(AU), where DLis the required detection limit and AUis the maximum permissible analytical uncertainty. For the manalytical region, calculate the band area (AAI) and average absorbance (AAV) from these scaled analyte spectra.

B.2.2 Prepare spectral representations of each potential interferant at its expected concentration (CPOT). For the manalytical region, calculate the band area (IAI) and average absorbance (IAV) from these scaled potential interferant spectra.

B.2.3 Repeat the calculation for each analytical region, and record the band area results in matrix form as indicated in Figure B.1.

B.2.4 If the band area of any potential interferant in an analytical region is greater than the one-half the band area of any analyte (i.e., IAI>0.5 AAIfor any pair ij and any m), classify the potential interferant as a known interferant. Label the known interferants k = 1 to K. Record the results in matrix form as indicated in Figure B.2.

B.2.5 Calculate the average total absorbance (AVT) for each analytical region and record the values in the last row of the matrix described in Figure B.2. Any analytical region where AVT>2.0 is unsuitable.

C.1.1 The root-mean-square (RMS) noise level is the standard measure of noise in this addendum. The RMS noise level of a contiguous segment of a spectrum is defined as the RMS difference (RMSD) between the absorbance values which form the segment and the mean value of that segment (see appendix A of this addendum).

C.1.2 The RMS noise value in double-beam absorbance spectra is assumed to be inversely proportional to: (a) the square root of the signal integration period of the sample single beam spectra from which it is formed, and (b) the total infrared power transmitted through the interferometer and absorption cell.

C.1.3 Practically, the assumption of C.1.2 allows the RMS noise level of a complete system to be estimated from the quantities described in sections C.1.3.1 through C.1.3.4:
