
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### under those conditions necessary to yield the specified minimum instrumental linewidth,

C.1.3.1 RMS, the noise level of the system (in absorbance units), without the absorption cell and transfer optics,e.g., Jacquinot stop size.

C.1.3.2 t, the manufacturer's signal integration time used to determine RMS.

C.1.3.3 t, the signal integration time for the analyses.

C.1.3.4 TP, the manufacturer's estimate of the fraction of the total infrared power transmitted by the absorption cell and transfer optics from the interferometer to the detector.

C.2.1 Obtain the values of RMS, t, and TP from the manufacturers of the equipment, or determine the noise level by direct measurements with the completely constructed system proposed in section 4 of this addendum.

C.2.2 Calculate the noise value of the system (RMS) using equation C.1.

Estimate the minimum concentration measurement uncertainties for the ianalyte (MAU) and jinterferant (MIU) based on the spectral data in the manalytical region by comparing the analyte band area in the analytical region (AAI) and estimating or measuring the noise level of the system (RMSor RMS).

D.2.1 For each analytical region, set RMS = RMSif measured (appendix G of this addendum), or set RMS = RMSif estimated (appendix C of this addendum).

D.2.2 For each analyte associated with the analytical region, calculate MAUusing equation D.1,

D.2.3 If only the manalytical region is used to calculate the concentration of the ianalyte, set MAU= MAU.

D.2.4 If more than one analytical region is used to calculate the concentration of the ianalyte, set MAUequal to the weighted mean of the appropriate MAUvalues calculated above; the weight for each term in the mean is equal to the fraction of the total wavenumber range used for the calculation represented by each analytical region. Mathematically, if the set of analytical regions employed is [m&#x2032;], then the MAU for each analytical region is given by equation D.2.

D.2.5 Repeat sections D.2.1 through D.2.4 of this appendix to calculate the analogous values MIUfor the interferants j = 1 to J. Replace the value (AU) (DL) in equation D.1 with CPOT/20; replace the value AAIin equation D.1 with IAI.

To estimate the reproducibility of the spectroscopic results of the system, compare the CTS spectra recorded before and after preparing the reference spectra. Compare the difference between the spectra to their average band area. Perform the calculation for each analytical region on the portions of the CTS spectra associated with that analytical region.

E.2.1 The CTS spectra {R1} consist of N spectra, denoted by S, i = 1, N. Similarly, the CTS spectra {R2} consist of N spectra, denoted by S, i = 1, N. Each Sis the spectrum of a single compound, where i denotes the compound and k denotes the set {} of which Sis a member. Form the spectra Saccording to S= S-Sfor each i. Form the spectra Saccording to S= [S+ S]/2 for each i.

E.2.2 Each analytical region m is associated with a portion of the CTS spectra Sand S, for a particular i, with lower and upper wavenumber limits FFLand FFU, respectively.

E.2.3 For each m and the associated i, calculate the band area of Sin the wavenumber range FFUto FFL. Follow the guidelines of section B.1.2 of this addendum for this band area calculation. Denote the result by BAV.

E.2.4 For each m and the associated i, calculate the RMSD of Sbetween the absorbance values and their mean in the wavenumber range FFUto FFL. Denote the result by SRMS.

E.2.5 For each analytical region m, calculate FMusing equation E.1,

E.2.6 If only the manalytical region is used to calculate the concentration of the ianalyte, set FRU= FM.

E.2.7 If a number pof analytical regions are used to calculate the concentration of the ianalyte, set FRUequal to the weighted mean of the appropriate FMvalues calculated according to section E.2.5. Mathematically, if the set of analytical regions employed is {m&#x2032;}, then FRUis given by equation E.2,

F.1.1 The concentrations yielded by the computerized analytical program applied to each single-compound reference spectrum are defined as the indicated standard concentrations (ISC's). The ISC values for a single compound spectrum should ideally equal the accepted standard concentration (ASC) for one analyte or interferant, and should ideally be zero for all other compounds. Variations from these results are caused by errors in the ASC values, variations from the Beer's law (or modified Beer's law) model used to determine the concentrations, and noise in the spectra. When the first two effects dominate, the systematic nature of the errors is often apparent and the analyst shall take steps to correct them.

F.1.2 When the calibration error appears non-systematic, apply the procedures of sections F.2.1 through F.2.3 of this appendix to estimate the fractional calibration uncertainty (FCU) for each compound. The FCU is defined as the mean fractional error between the ASC and the ISC for all reference spectra with non-zero ASC for that compound. The FCU for each compound shall be less than the required fractional uncertainty specified in section 4.1 of this addendum.

F.1.3 The computerized analytical programs shall also be required to yield acceptably low concentrations for compounds with ISC = 0 when applied to the reference spectra. The ISC of each reference spectrum for each analyte or interferant shall not exceed that compound's minimum measurement uncertainty (MAU or MIU).

F.2.1 Apply each analytical program to each reference spectrum. Prepare a similar table to that in Figure F.1 to present the ISC and ASC values for each analyte and interferant in each reference spectrum. Maintain the order of reference file names and compounds employed in preparing Figure F.1.

F.2.2 For all reference spectra in Figure F.1, verify that the absolute values of the ISC's are less than the compound's MAU (for analytes) or MIU (for interferants).

F.2.3 For each analyte reference spectrum, calculate the quantity (ASC-ISC)/ASC. For each analyte, calculate the mean of these values (the FCUfor the ianalyte) over all reference spectra. Prepare a similar table to that in Figure F.2 to present the FCUand analytical uncertainty limit (AU) for each analyte.

The root-mean-square (RMS) noise level is the standard measure of noise. The RMS noise level of a contiguous segment of a spectrum is the RMSD between the absorbance values that form the segment and the mean value of the segment (see appendix A of this addendum).

G.2.1 Evacuate the absorption cell or fill it with UPC grade nitrogen at approximately one atmosphere total pressure.

G.2.2 Record two single beam spectra of signal integration period t.

G.2.3 Form the double beam absorption spectrum from these two single beam spectra, and calculate the noise level RMSin the M analytical regions.

Reference spectra recorded at absorption pathlength (L), gas pressure (P), and gas absolute temperature (T) may be used to determine analyte concentrations in samples whose spectra are recorded at conditions different from that of the reference spectra, i.e., at absorption pathlength (L), absolute temperature (T), and pressure (P). This appendix describes the calculations for estimating the fractional uncertainty (FAU) of this practice. It also describes the calculations for determining the sample absorption pathlength from comparison of CTS spectra, and for preparing spectra for further instrumental and procedural checks.

H.1.1 Before sampling, determine the sample absorption pathlength using least squares analysis. Determine the ratio L/Lby comparing the spectral sets {R1} and {R3}, which are recorded using the same CTS at Land L, and Tand T, but both at P.

H.1.2 Determine the fractional analysis uncertainty (FAU) for each analyte by comparing a scaled CTS spectral set, recorded at L, T, and P, to the CTS reference spectra of the same gas, recorded at L, T, and P. Perform the quantitative comparison after recording the sample spectra, based on band areas of the spectra in the CTS absorbance band associated with each analyte.
