
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### FTIR Protocol

1.4.2 Data quality is determined by measuring the root mean square (RMS) noise level in each analytical spectral region (appendix C of the FTIR Protocol). The RMS noise is defined as the root mean square deviation (RMSD) of the absorbance values in an analytical region from the mean absorbance value in the same region. Appendix D of thedefines the minimum analyte uncertainty (MAU), and how the RMSD is used to calculate the MAU. The MAUis the minimum concentration of the ith analyte in the mth analytical region for which the analytical uncertainty limit can be maintained. Table 2 presents example values of AU and MAU using the analytical region presented in Table 1.

2.1 Principle

See Method 320 of this appendix. HCl can also undergo rotation transitions by absorbing energy in the far-infrared spectral region. The rotational transitions are superimposed on the vibrational fundamental to give a series of lines centered at the fundamental vibrational frequency, 2885 cm-. The frequencies of absorbance and the pattern of rotational/vibrational lines are unique to HCl. When this distinct pattern is observed in an infrared spectrum of an unknown sample, it unequivocally identifies HCl as a component of the mixture. The infrared spectrum of HCl is very distinctive and cannot be confused with the spectrum of any other compound. See Reference 6.
