
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Sampling System Interferences.

4.2The principal sampling system interferant for measuring HCl is water vapor. Steps must be taken to ensure that no condensation forms anywhere in the probe assembly, sample lines, or analytical instrumentation. Cold spots anywhere in the sampling system must be avoided. The extent of sampling system bias in the FTIR analysis of HCl depends on concentrations of potential interferants, moisture content of the gas stream, temperature of the gas stream, temperature of sampling system components, sample flow rate, and reactivity of HCl with other species in the gas stream (e.g., ammonia). For measuring HCl in a wet gas stream the temperatures of the gas stream, sampling components, and the sample flow rate are of primary importance. Analyte spiking with HCl is performed to demonstrate the integrity of the sampling system for transporting HCl vapor in the flue gas to the FTIR instrument. See section 9 of this method for a complete description of analyte spiking.

5.1 Hydrogen chloride vapor is corrosive and can cause irritation or severe damage to respiratory system, eyes and skin. Exposure to this compound should be avoided.

5.2 This method may involve sampling at locations having high positive or negative pressures, or high concentrations of hazardous or toxic pollutants, and can not address all safety problems encountered under these diverse sampling conditions. It is the responsibility of the tester(s) to ensure proper safety and health practices, and to determine the applicability of regulatory limitations before performing this test method. Leak-check procedures are outlined in section 8.2 of Method 320 of this appendix.
