
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Spike Materials.

9.1Perform analyte spiking with an HCl standard to demonstrate the integrity of the sampling system.

9.1.1 An HCl standard of approximately 50 ppm in a balance of ultra pure nitrogen is recommended. The SF(tracer) concentration shall be 2 to 5 ppm depending upon the measurement pathlength. The spike ratio (spike flow/total flow) shall be no greater than 1:10, and an ideal spike concentration should approximate the native effluent concentration.

9.1.2 The ideal spike concentration may not be achieved because the target concentration cannot be accurately predicted prior to the field test, and limited calibration standards will be available during testing. Therefore, practical constraints must be applied that allow the tester to spike at an anticipated concentration. For these tests, the analyte concentration contributed by the HCl standard spike should be 1 to 5 ppm or should more closely approximate the native concentration if it is greater.

9.2 Spike Procedure

9.2.1 A spiking/sampling apparatus is shown in Figure 2. Introduce the spike/tracer gas mixture at a constant flow (+/-2 percent) rate at approximately 10 percent of the total sample flow. (For example, introduce the surrogate spike at 1 L/min 20 cc/min, into a total sample flow rate of 10 L/min). The spike must be pre-heated before introduction into the sample matrix to prevent a localized condensation of the gas stream at the spike introduction point. A heated sample transport line(s) containing multiple transport tubes within the heated bundle may be used to spike gas up through the sampling system to the spike introduction point. Use a calibrated flow device (e.g., mass flow meter/controller), to monitor the spike flow as indicated by a calibrated flow meter or controller, or alternately, the SFtracer ratio may be calculated from the direct measurement and the diluted measurement. It is often desirable to use the tracer approach in calculating the spike/total flow ratio because of the difficulty in accurately measuring hot/wet total flow. The tracer technique has been successfully used in past validation efforts (Reference 1).

9.2.2 Perform a direct-to-cell measurement of the dry, undiluted spike gas. Introduce the spike directly to the FTIR cell, bypassing the sampling system. Fill cell to 1 atmosphere and collect the spectrum of this sample. Ensure that the spike gas has equilibrated to the temperature of the measurement cell before acquisition of the spectra. Inspect the spectrum and verify that the gas is dry and contains negligible CO. Repeat the process to obtain a second direct-to-cell measurement. Analysis of spectral band areas for HCl from these duplicate measurements should agree to within +/-5 percent of the mean.
