
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Post-test QA.

8.11The sample spectra shall be inspected immediately after the run to verify that the gas matrix composition was close to the assumed gas matrix, (this is necessary to account for the concentrations of the interferants for use in the analytical analysis programs), and to confirm that the sampling and instrumental parameters were appropriate for the conditions encountered.

Use analyte spiking to verify the effectiveness of the sampling system for the target compounds in the actual kiln gas matrix. QA spiking shall be performed before and after each sample run. QA spiking shall be performed after the pre- and post-test CTS direct and system calibrations. The system biases calculated from the pre- and post-test dynamic analyte spiking shall be within +/-30 percent for the spiked surrogate analytes for the measurements to be considered valid. See sections 9.3.1 through 9.3.2 for the requisite calculations. Measurement of the undiluted spike (direct-to-cell measurement) involves sending dry, spike gas to the FTIR cell, filling the cell to 1 atmosphere and obtaining the spectrum of this sample. The direct-to-cell measurement should be performed before each analyte spike so that the recovery of the dynamically spiked analytes may be calculated. Analyte spiking is only effective for assessing the integrity of the sampling system when the concentration of HCl in the source does not vary substantially. Any attempt to quantify an analyte recovery in a variable concentration matrix will result in errors in the expected concentration of the spiked sample. If the kiln gas target analyte concentrations vary by more than +/-5 percent (or 5 ppm, whichever is greater) in the time required to acquire a sample spectrum, it may be necessary to: (1) Use a dual sample probe approach, (2) use two independent FTIR measurement systems, (3) use alternate QA/QC procedures, or (4) postpone testing until stable emission concentrations are achieved. (See section 9.2.3 of this method). It is recommended that a laboratory evaluation be performed before attempting to employ this method under actual field conditions. The laboratory evaluation shall include (1) performance of all applicable calculations in section 4 of the FTIR Protocol; (2) simulated analyte spiking experiments in dry (ambient) and humidified sample matrices using HCl; and (3) performance of bias (recovery) calculations from analyte spiking experiments. It is not necessary to perform a laboratory evaluation before every field test. The purpose of the laboratory study is to demonstrate that the actual instrument and sampling system configuration used in field testing meets the requirements set forth in this method.
