
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Analyte Spiking.

9.2.3Determine whether the kiln gas contains native concentrations of HCl by examination of preliminary spectra. Determine whether the concentration varies significantly with time by observing a continuously up-dated spectrum of sample gas in the flow-through sampling mode. If the concentration varies by more than +/-5 percent during the period of time required to acquire a spectra, then an alternate approach should be used. One alternate approach uses two sampling lines to convey sample to the gas distribution manifold. One of the sample lines is used to continuously extract unspiked kiln gas from the source. The other sample line serves as the analyte spike line. One FTIR system can be used in this arrangement. Spiked or unspiked sample gas may be directed to the FTIR system from the gas distribution manifold, with the need to purge only the components between the manifold and the FTIR system. This approach minimizes the time required to acquire an equilibrated sample of spiked or unspiked kiln gas. If the source varies by more than +/-5 percent (or 5 ppm, whichever is greater) in the time it takes to switch from the unspiked sample line to the spiked sample line, then analyte spiking may not be a feasible means to determine the effectiveness of the sampling system for the HCl in the sample matrix. A second alternative is to use two completely independent FTIR measurement systems. One system would measure unspiked samples while the other system would measure the spiked samples. As a last option, (where no other alternatives can be used) a humidified nitrogen stream may be generated in the field which approximates the moisture content of the kiln gas. Analyte spiking into this humidified stream can be employed to assure that the sampling system is adequate for transporting the HCl to the FTIR instrumentation.

9.2.3.1 Adjust the spike flow rate to approximately 10 percent of the total flow by metering spike gas through a calibrated mass flowmeter or controller. Allow spike flow to equilibrate within the sampling system before analyzing the first spiked kiln gas samples. A minimum of two consecutive spikes are required. Analysis of the spectral band area used for quantification should agree to within +/-5 percent or corrective action must be taken.

9.2.3.2 After QA spiking is completed, the sampling system components shall be purged with nitrogen or dry air to eliminate traces of the HCl compound from the sampling system components. Acquire a sample spectra of the nitrogen purge to verify the absence of the calibration mixture.

9.2.3.3 Analyte spiking procedures must be carefully executed to ensure that meaningful measurements are achieved. The requirements of sections 9.2.3.3.1 through 9.2.3.3.4 shall be met.

9.2.3.3.1 The spike must be in the vapor phase, dry, and heated to (or above) the kiln gas temperature before it is introduced to the kiln gas stream.

9.2.3.3.2 The spike flow rate must be constant and accurately measured.

9.2.3.3.3 The total flow must also be measured continuously and reliably or the dilution ratio must otherwise be verified before and after a run by introducing a spike of a non-reactive, stable compound (i.e., tracer).

9.2.3.3.4 The tracer must be inert to the sampling system components, not contained in the effluent gas, and readily detected by the analytical instrumentation. Sulfur hexafluoride (SF) has been used successfully (References 1 and 2) for this purpose.

9.3 Calculations
