
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Apodization Function.

10.5Choose the appropriate apodization function. Determine any appropriate mathematical transformations that are required to correct instrumental errors by measuring the CTS. Any mathematical transformations must be documented and reproducible. Reference 9 provides additional information about FTIR instrumentation.

A full description of the analytical procedures is given in sections 4.6-4.11, sections 5, 6, and 7, and the appendices of the FTIR Protocol. Additional description of quantitative spectral analysis is provided in References 10 and 11.

Data analysis is performed using appropriate reference spectra whose concentrations can be verified using CTS spectra. Various analytical programs (References 10 and 11) are available to relate sample absorbance to a concentration standard. Calculated concentrations should be verified by analyzing spectral baselines after mathematically subtracting scaled reference spectra from the sample spectra. A full description of the data analysis and calculations may be found in the FTIR Protocol (sections 4.0, 5.0, 6.0 and appendices).

12.1 Calculated concentrations in sample spectra are corrected for differences in absorption pathlength between the reference and sample spectra by

12.2 The temperature correction in equation 5 is a volumetric correction. It does not account for temperature dependence of rotational-vibrational relative line intensities. Whenever possible, the reference spectra used in the analysis should be collected at a temperature near the temperature of the FTIR cell used in the test to minimize the calculated error in the measurement (FTIR Protocol, appendix D). Additionally, the analytical region chosen for the analysis should be sufficiently broad to minimize errors caused by small differences in relative line intensities between reference spectra and the sample spectra.

A description of the method performance may be found in the FTIR Protocol. This method is self validating provided the results meet the performance specification of the QA spike in sections 9.0 through 9.3 of this method.

This is a gas phase measurement. Gas is extracted from the source, analyzed by the instrumentation, and discharged through the instrument vent.

Gas standards of HCl are handled according to the instructions enclosed with the material safety data sheet.

1. "Laboratory and Field Evaluation of a Methodology for Determination of Hydrogen Chloride Emissions From Municipal and Hazardous Waste Incinerators," S.C. Steinsberger and J.H. Margeson. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. NTIS Report No. PB89-220586. (1989).

2. "Evaluation of HCl Measurement Techniques at Municipal and Hazardous Waste Incinerators," S.A. Shanklin, S.C. Steinsberger, and L. Cone, Entropy, Inc. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. NTIS Report No. PB90-221896. (1989).

3. "Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Method Validation at a Coal Fired-Boiler," Entropy, Inc. Prepared for U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC. EPA Publication No. EPA-454/R95-004. NTIS Report No. PB95-193199. (1993).

4. "Field Validation Test Using Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectrometry To Measure Formaldehyde, Phenol and Methanol at a Wool Fiberglass Production Facility." Draft. U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Report, Entropy, Inc., EPA Contract No. 68D20163, Work Assignment I-32.

5. Kinner, L.L., Geyer, T.G., Plummer, G.W., Dunder, T.A., Entropy, Inc. "Application of FTIR as a Continuous Emission Monitoring System." Presentation at 1994 International Incineration Conference, Houston, TX. May 10, 1994.

6. "Molecular Vibrations; The Theory of Infrared and Raman Vibrational Spectra," E. Bright Wilson, J.C. Decius, and P.C. Cross, Dover Publications, Inc., 1980. For a less intensive treatment of molecular rotational-vibrational spectra see, for example, "Physical Chemistry," G.M. Barrow, chapters 12, 13, and 14, McGraw Hill, Inc., 1979.

7. "Laboratory and Field Evaluations of Ammonium Chloride Interference in Method 26," U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Report, Entropy, Inc., EPA Contract No. 68D20163, Work Assignment No. I-45.

8. 40 CFR 63, appendix A. Method 301-Field Validation of Pollutant Measurement Methods from Various Waste Media.

9. "Fourier Transform Infrared Spectrometry," Peter R. Griffiths and James de Haseth, Chemical Analysis, 83, 16-25, (1986), P.J. Elving, J.D. Winefordner and I.M. Kolthoff (ed.), John Wiley and Sons.

10. "Computer-Assisted Quantitative Infrared Spectroscopy," Gregory L. McClure (ed.), ASTM Special Publication 934 (ASTM), 1987.

11. "Multivariate Least-Squares Methods Applied to the Quantitative Spectral Analysis of Multicomponent Mixtures," Applied Spectroscopy, 39(10), 73-84, 1985.
