
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### et al.

6. Gundappa, M.,"Characteristics of Formaldehyde Emissions from Natural Gas-Fired Reciprocating Internal Combustion Engines in Gas Transmission. Volume I: Phase I Predictive Model for Estimating Formaldehyde Emissions from 2-Stroke Engines." Report No. GRI-97/0376.1, Gas Research Institute, Chicago, Illinois, September 1997.

1.1 This method describes collection of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) at or inside a facility property boundary or from fugitive and area emission sources using passive (diffusive) tube samplers (PS). The concentration of airborne VOCs at or near these potential fugitive- or area-emission sources may be determined using this method in combination with Method 325B. Companion Method 325B (Sampler Preparation and Analysis) describes preparation of sampling tubes, shipment and storage of exposed sampling tubes, and analysis of sampling tubes collected using either this passive sampling procedure or alternative active (pumped) sampling methods.

1.2 This method may be used to determine the average concentration of the select VOCs using the corresponding uptake rates listed in Method 325B, Table 12.1. Additional compounds or alternative sorbents must be evaluated as described in Addendum A of Method 325B or by one of the following national/international standard methods: ISO 16017-2:2003(E), ASTM D6196-03 (Reapproved 2009), or BS EN 14662-4:2005 (all incorporated by reference-see § 63.14), or reported in the peer-reviewed open literature.

1.3 Methods 325A and 325B are valid for the measurement of benzene. Supporting literature (References 1-8) indicates that benzene can be measured by flame ionization detection or mass spectrometry over a concentration range of approximately 0.5 micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m) to at least 500 µg/mwhen industry standard (3.5 inch long x 0.25 inch outside diameter (o.d.) x 5 mm inner diameter (i.d.)) inert-coated stainless steel sorbent tubes packed with Carbograph1 TD, CarbopackB, or CarbopackX or equivalent are used and when samples are accumulated over a period of 14 days.
