
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

8.2.1.3 An extra sampler must be placed near known sources of VOCs if potential emission sources are within 50 meters (162 feet) of the boundary and the source or sources are located between two monitors. Measure the distance (x) between the two monitors and place another monitor approximately halfway between (x/2 +/-10 percent) the two monitors. Only one extra sampler is required between two monitors to account for known sources of VOCs. For example, in Figure 8.1, the facility added three additional monitors (light shaded sampler locations), and in Figure 8.2, the facility added two additional monitors to provide sufficient coverage of all area sources.

8.2.2 Option 1 for Determining Sampling Locations.

8.2.2.1 For facilities with a regular (circular, triangular, rectangular, or square) shape, determine the geographic center of the facility.

8.2.2.1.1 For facilities with an area of less than or equal to 750 acres, measure angles of 30 degrees from the center point for a total of twelve 30 degree measurements evenly spaced (+/-1 degree).

8.2.2.1.2 For facilities covering an area greater than 750 acres but less than or equal to 1,500 acres, measure angles of 20 degrees from the center point for a total of eighteen 20 degree measurements evenly spaced (+/-1 degree). Figure 8.1 shows the monitor placement around the property boundary of a facility with an area between 750 and 1,500 acres. Monitor placements are represented with black dots along the property boundary.

8.2.2.1.3 For facilities covering an area greater than 1,500 acres, measure angles of 15 degrees from the center point for a total of twenty-four 15 degree measurements evenly spaced (+/-1 degree).

8.2.2.1.4 Locate each sampling point where the measured angle intersects the outer monitoring perimeter.

8.2.2.2 For irregularly shaped facilities, divide the area into a set of connecting subarea circles, triangles or rectangles to determine sampling locations. The subareas must be defined such that a circle can reasonably encompass the subarea. Then determine the geometric center point of each of the subareas.
