
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

8.1.3 Identify to the extent possible and record potential off-site source interferences (neighboring industrial facilities, transportation facilities, fueling operations, combustion sources, short-term transient sources, residential sources, nearby highways).

8.1.4 Identify the closest available meteorological station. Identify potential locations for one or more on-site or near-site meteorological station(s) following the guidance in EPA-454/B-08-002 (Reference 11) (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14).

8.2.1 The number and placement of the passive samplers depends on the size, the shape of the facility footprint or the linear distance around the facility, and the proximity of emission sources near the property boundaries. Aerial photographs or site maps may be used to determine the size (acreage) and shape of the facility or the length of the monitoring perimeter. Place passive samplers on an internal monitoring perimeter on or inside the facility boundary encompassing all emission sources at the facility at different angles circling the geometric center of the facility or at different distances based on the monitoring perimeter length of the facility.

8.2.1.1 The monitoring perimeter may be located between the property boundary and any potential emission source near the property boundary, as long as the distance from the source to the monitoring perimeter is at least 50 meters (162 feet). If a potential emissions source is within 50 meters (162 feet) of the property boundary, the property boundary shall be used as the monitoring perimeter near that source.

8.2.1.2 Samplers need only be placed around the monitoring perimeter and not along internal roads or other right of ways that may bisect the facility.
