
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.

1.5 Inorganic gases not suitable for analysis by this method include oxides of carbon, nitrogen and sulfur, ozone (O), and other diatomic permanent gases. Other pollutants not suitable for this analysis method include particulate pollutants, (, fumes, aerosols, and dusts), compounds too labile (reactive) for conventional GC analysis, and VOCs that are more volatile than propane.

2.1 This method provides procedures for the preparation, conditioning, blanking, and shipping of sorbent tubes prior to sample collection.

2.2 Laboratory and field personnel must have experience of sampling trace-level VOCs using sorbent tubes (References 2,5) and must have experience operating thermal desorption/GC/multi-detector instrumentation.

2.3 Key steps of this method as implemented for each sample tube include: Stringent leak testing under stop flow, recording ambient temperature conditions, adding internal standards, purging the tube, thermally desorbing the sampling tube, refocusing on a focusing trap, desorbing and transferring/injecting the VOCs from the secondary trap into the capillary GC column for separation and analysis.

2.4 Water management steps incorporated into this method include: (a) Selection of hydrophobic sorbents in the sampling tube; (b) optional dry purging of sample tubes prior to analysis; and (c) additional selective elimination of water during primary (tube) desorption (if required) by selecting trapping sorbents and temperatures such that target compounds are quantitatively retained while water is purged to vent.

(See also Section 3.0 of Method 325A).

3.1 Blanking is the desorption and confirmatory analysis of conditioned sorbent tubes before they are sent for field sampling.
