
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

9.3.2 Collect at least two field blanks sorbent samples per sampling period to ensure sample integrity associated with shipment, collection, and storage. You must use the entire sampling apparatus for field blanks including unopened sorbent tubes mounted in protective sampling hoods. The tube closures must not be removed. Field blanks must be placed in two different quadrants (90&#xB0; and 270&#xB0;) and remain at the sampling location for the sampling period.

Follow the calibration and standardization procedures for meteorological measurements in EPA-454/B-08-002 March 2008 (Reference 11) (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14). Refer to Method 325B for calibration and standardization procedures for analysis of the passive sampling tubes.

Refer to Method 325B, which provides details for the preparation and analysis of sampled passive monitoring tubes (preparation of sampling tubes, shipment and storage of exposed sampling tubes, and analysis of sampling tubes).

After a year's worth of sampling at the facility fenceline (for example, 26 14-day samples), the average (PS) may be calculated for any specified period at each PS location using Equation 12.1.

If data from neighboring sampling locations are significantly different, then you may add extra sampling points to isolate background contributions or identify facility-specific "hot spots."

You may evaluate trends and patterns in the PS data over multiple sampling periods to determine if elevated concentrations of target compounds are due to operations on the facility or if contributions from background sources are significant.

12.3.1 Obtain meteorological data including wind speed and wind direction or unit vector wind data from the on-site meteorological station. Use this meteorological data to determine the prevailing wind direction and speed during the periods of elevated concentrations.
