
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

8.6.5 If the sorbent tubes are supplied with electronic (RFID) tags, it is also possible to allocate a sample identifier to each PS tube. In this case, the recommended format for the identification number of each sampled tube is AA-BB-CC-DD-VOC, where:

9.1 Most quality control checks are carried out by the laboratory and associated requirements are in Section 9.0 of Method 325B, including requirements for laboratory blanks, field blanks, and duplicate samples.

9.2 Evaluate for potential outliers the laboratory results for neighboring sampling tubes collected over the same time period. A potential outlier is a result for which one or more PS tube does not agree with the trend in results shown by neighboring PS tubes-particularly when data from those locations have been more consistent during previous sampling periods. Accidental contamination by the sample handler must be documented before any result can be eliminated as an outlier. Rare but possible examples of contamination include loose or missing storage caps or contaminated storage/shipping containers. Review data from the same and neighboring monitoring locations for the subsequent sampling periods. If the anomalous result is not repeated for that monitoring location, the episode can be ascribed to transient contamination and the data in question must be flagged for potential elimination from the dataset.

9.3.1 Collect at least one co-located/duplicate sample for every 10 field samples to determine precision of the measurements.
