
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### http://ready.arl.noaa.gov/HYSPLIT.php

12.3.2 As an option you may perform preliminary back trajectory calculations () to aid in identifying the source of the background contribution to elevated target compound concentrations.

12.3.3 Information on published or documented events on- and off-site may also be included in the associated sampling period report to explain elevated concentrations if relevant. For example, you would describe if there was a chemical spill on site, or an accident on an adjacent road.

12.3.4 Additional monitoring for shorter periods (See section 8.4) may be necessary to allow better discrimination/resolution of contributing emission sources if the measured trends and associated meteorology do not provide a clear assessment of facility contribution to the measured fenceline concentration.

12.3.5 Additional records necessary to calculate sampling period average target compound concentration can be found in Section 12.1 of Method 325B.

Method performance requirements are described in Method 325B.

[Reserved]

[Reserved]

1.1 This method describes thermal desorption/gas chromatography (TD/GC) analysis of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) from fugitive and area emission sources collected onto sorbent tubes using passive sampling. It could also be applied to the TD/GC analysis of VOCs collected using active (pumped) sampling onto sorbent tubes. The concentration of airborne VOCs at or near potential fugitive- or area-emission sources may be determined using this method in combination with Method 325A. Companion Method 325A (Sampler Deployment and VOC Sample Collection) describes procedures for deploying the sorbent tubes and passively collecting VOCs.

1.2 The preferred GC detector for this method is a mass spectrometer (MS), but flame ionization detectors (FID) may also be used. Other conventional GC detectors such as electron capture (ECD), photoionization (PID), or flame photometric (FPD) may also be used if they are selective and sensitive to the target compound(s) and if they meet the method performance criteria provided in this method.

1.3 There are 97 VOCs listed as hazardous air pollutants in Title III of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. Many of these VOC are candidate compounds for this method. Compounds with known uptake rates for Carbograph1 TD, CarbopackB, or CarbopackX are listed in Table 12.1. This method provides performance criteria to demonstrate acceptable performance of the method (or modifications of the method) for monitoring one or more of the compounds listed Table 12.1. If standard passive sampling tubes are packed with other sorbents or used for other analytes than those listed in Table 12.1, then method performance and relevant uptake rates should be verified according to Addendum A to this method or by one of the following national/international standard methods: ISO 16017-2:2003(E), ASTM D6196-03 (Reapproved 2009), or BS EN 14662-4:2005 (all incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14), or reported in the peer-reviewed open literature.
