
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

8.2.2.2.2 If a subarea is greater than 750 acres but less than or equal to 1,500 acres (Figure 8.4), measure angles of 20 degrees from the center point for a total of eighteen 20 degree measurements (+/-1 degree).

8.2.2.2.3 If a subarea is greater than 1,500 acres, measure angles of 15 degrees from the center for a total of twenty-four 15 degree measurements (+/-1 degree).

8.2.2.2.4 Locate each sampling point where the measured angle intersects the outer monitoring perimeter. Sampling points need not be placed closer than 152 meters (500 feet) apart (or 76 meters (250 feet) if known sources are within 50 meters (162 feet) of the monitoring perimeter), as long as a minimum of 3 monitoring locations are used for each subarea.

8.2.2.2.5 Sampling sites are not needed at the intersection of an inner boundary with an adjacent subarea. The sampling location must be sited where the measured angle intersects the subarea's outer monitoring perimeter.

8.2.3 Option 2 for Determining Sampling Locations.

8.2.3.1 For facilities with a monitoring perimeter length of less than 7,315 meters (24,000 feet), a minimum of twelve sampling locations evenly spaced +/-10 percent of the location interval is required.

8.2.3.2 For facilities with a monitoring perimeter length greater than or equal to 7,315 meters (24,000 feet), sampling locations are spaced 610 +/- 76 meters (2,000 +/- 250 feet) apart.

8.2.3.3 Unless otherwise specified in an applicable regulation, permit or other requirement, for small disconnected subareas with known sources within 50 meters (162 feet) of the monitoring perimeter, sampling points need not be placed closer than 152 meters (500 feet) apart as long as a minimum of 3 monitoring locations are used for each subarea.

A meteorological station is required at or near the facility you are monitoring. A number of commercially available meteorological stations can be used. Information on meteorological instruments can be found in EPA-454/R-99-005 (Reference 11) (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14). Some important considerations for siting of meteorological stations are detailed below.

8.3.1 Place meteorological stations in locations that represent conditions affecting the transport and dispersion of pollutants in the area of interest. Complex terrain may require the use of more than one meteorological station.

8.3.2 Deploy wind instruments over level, open terrain at a height of 10 meters (33 feet). If possible, locate wind instruments at a distance away from nearby structures that is equal to at least 10 times the height of the structure.

8.3.3 Protect meteorological instruments from thermal radiation and adequately ventilate them using aspirated shields. The temperature sensor must be located at a distance away from any nearby structures that is equal to at least four times the height of the structure. Temperature sensors must be located at least 30 meters (98 feet) from large paved areas.

8.3.4 Collect and record meteorological data, including wind speed, wind direction, temperature and barometric pressure on an hourly basis. Calculate average unit vector wind direction, sigma theta, temperature and barometric pressure per sampling period to enable calculation of concentrations at standard conditions. Supply this information to the laboratory.

8.3.5 Identify and record the location of the meteorological station by its GPS coordinate.

8.4.1 Sample collection may be performed for periods up to 14 days.

8.4.2 A site screening protocol that meets method requirements may be performed by collecting samples for a year where each PS accumulates VOC for a 14-day sampling period. Study results are accumulated for the sampling periods (typically 26) over the course of one calendar year. To the extent practical, sampling tubes should be changed at approximately the same time of day at each of the monitoring sites.
