
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### Tube Dimensions and Materials.

6.1The sampling tubes for this method are 3.5-inches (89 mm) long,inch (6.4 mm) o.d., and 5 mm i.d. passive sampling tubes (see Figure 6.1). The tubes are made of inert-coated stainless steel with the central section (up to 60 mm) packed with sorbent, typically supported between two 100 mesh stainless steel gauze. The tubes have a cross sectional area of 19.6 square mm (5 mm i.d.). When used for passive sampling, these tubes have an internal diffusion (air) gap (DG) of 1.5 cm between the sorbent retaining gauze at the sampling end of the tube, and the gauze in the diffusion cap.

6.2.1 Freshly packed or newly purchased tubes must be conditioned as described in Section 9 using an appropriate dedicated tube conditioning unit or the thermal desorber. Note that the analytical TD system should be used for tube conditioning if it supports a dedicated tube conditioning mode in which effluent from contaminated tubes is directed to vent without passing through key parts of the sample flow path such as the focusing trap.

6.2.2 Dedicated tube conditioning units must be leak-tight to prevent air ingress, allow precise and reproducible temperature selection (+/-5 &#xB0;C), offer a temperature range at least as great as that of the thermal desorber, and support inert gas flows in the range up to 100 mL/min.

6.3.1 Label the sample tubes with a unique permanent identification number and an indication of the sampling end of the tube. Labeling options include etching and TD-compatible electronic (radio frequency identification (RFID)) tube labels.

6.3.2 To avoid contamination, do not make ink markings of any kind on clean sorbent tubes or apply adhesive labels.

6.4.1 Long-term storage caps. Seal clean, blank and sampled sorbent tubes using inert, long-term tube storage caps comprising non-greased, 2-piece, 0.25-inch, metal SwageLok&#xAE;-type screw caps fitted with combined polytetrafluoroethylene ferrules.

6.4.2 Storage and transportation containers. Use clean glass jars, metal cans or rigid, non-emitting polymer boxes.

A suitable device has a simple push fit or finger-tightening connector for attaching the sampling end of blank sorbent tubes without damaging the tube. It also has a means of controlling carrier gas flow through the injector and attached sorbent tube at 50-100 mL/min and includes a low emission septum cap that allows the introduction of gas or liquid standards via appropriate syringes. Reproducible and quantitative transfer of higher boiling compounds in liquid standards is facilitated if the injection unit allows the tip of the syringe to just touch the sorbent retaining gauze inside the tube.

The manual or automated thermal desorption system must heat sorbent tubes while a controlled flow of inert (carrier) gas passes through the tube and out of the sampling end. The apparatus must also incorporate a focusing trap to quantitatively refocus compounds desorbed from the tube. Secondary desorption of the focusing trap should be fast/efficient enough to transfer the compounds into the high resolution capillary GC column without band broadening and without any need for further pre- or on-column focusing. Typical TD focusing traps comprise small sorbent traps (Reference 16) that are electrically-cooled using multistage Peltier cells (References 17, 18). The direction of gas flow during trap desorption should be the reverse of that used for focusing to extend the compatible analyte volatility range. Closed cycle coolers offer another cryogen-free trap cooling option. Other TD system requirements and operational stages are described in Section 11 and in Figures 17-2 through 17-4.

6.7.1 The interface between the thermal desorber and the GC must be heated uniformly and the connection between the transfer line insert and the capillary GC analytical column itself must be leak tight.

6.7.2 A portion of capillary column can alternatively be threaded through the heated transfer line/TD interface and connected directly to the thermal desorber.
