
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,e.g.

6.8.1 The GC system must be capable of temperature programming and operation of a high resolution capillary column. Depending on the choice of column (, film thickness) and the volatility of the target compounds, it may be necessary to cool the GC oven to subambient temperatures (, -50 &#xB0;C) at the start of the run to allow resolution of very volatile organic compounds.

6.8.2 All carrier gas lines supplying the GC must be constructed from clean stainless steel or copper tubing. Non-polytetrafluoroethylene thread sealants. Flow controllers, cylinder regulators, or other pneumatic components fitted with rubber components are not suitable.

High-resolution, fused silica or equivalent capillary columns that provide adequate separation of sample components to permit identification and quantitation of target compounds must be used.

Linear quadrupole, magnetic sector, ion trap or time-of-flight mass spectrometers may be used provided they meet specified performance criteria. The mass detector must be capable of collecting data from 35 to 300 atomic mass units (amu) every 1 second or less, utilizing 70 volts (nominal) electron energy in the electron ionization mode, and producing a mass spectrum that meets all the instrument performance acceptance criteria in Section 9 when 50 &#x3B7;g or less of p-bromofluorobenzene is analyzed.

7.1.1 Use commercially packed tubes meeting the requirements of this method or prepare tubes in the laboratory using sieved sorbents of particle size in the range 20 to 80 mesh that meet the retention and quality control requirements of this method.

7.1.2 This passive air monitoring method can be used without the evaluation specified in Addendum A if the type of tubes described in Section 6.1 are packed with 4-6 cm (typically 400-650 mg) of the sorbents listed in Table 12.1 and used for the respective target analytes.

7.1.3 If standard passive sampling tubes are packed with other sorbents or used for analytes other than those tabulated in Section 12.0, method performance and relevant uptake rates should be verified according to Addendum A to this method or by following the techniques described in one of the following national/international standard methods: ISO 16017-2:2003(E), ASTM D6196-03 (Reapproved 2009), or BS EN 14662-4:2005 (all incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14)-or reported in the peer-reviewed open literature. A summary table and the supporting evaluation data demonstrating the selected sorbent meets the requirements in Addendum A to this method must be submitted to the regulatory authority as part of a request to use an alternative sorbent.
