
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.

13.2 Diffusive sorbent tubes compatible with passive sampling and thermal desorption methods have been evaluated at relatively high atmospheric concentrations (, mid-ppb to ppm) and published for use in workplace air and industrial/mobile source emissions (References 15-16, 21-22).

13.3 Best possible detection limits and maximum quantifiable concentrations of air pollutants range from sub-part-per-trillion (sub-ppt) for halogenated species such as CCl4 and the freons using an electron capture detector (ECD), SIM Mode GC/MS, triple quad MS or GC/TOF MS to sub-ppb for volatile hydrocarbons collected over 72 hours followed by analysis using GC with quadrupole MS operated in the full SCAN mode.

13.3.1 Actual detection limits for atmospheric monitoring vary depending on several key factors. These factors are:

- Minimum artifact levels.

- GC detector selection.

- Time of exposure for passive sorbent tubes.

- Selected analytical conditions, particularly column resolution and split ratio.

This method involves the use of ambient concentrations of gaseous compounds that post little or no danger of pollution to the environment.

Dispose of expired calibration solutions as hazardous materials. Exercise standard laboratory environmental practices to minimize the use and disposal of laboratory solvents.

ADDENDUM A to Method 325B-Method 325 Performance Evaluation

A.1.1 To be measured by Methods 325A and 325B, each new target volatile organic compound (VOC) or sorbent that is not listed in Table 12.1 must be evaluated by exposing the selected sorbent tube to a known concentration of the target compound(s) in an exposure chamber following the procedure in this Addendum or by following the procedures in the national/international standard methods: ISO 16017-2:2003(E), ASTM D6196-03 (Reapproved 2009), or BS EN 14662-4:2005 (all incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14), or reported in peer-reviewed open literature.

A.1.2 You must determine the uptake rate and the relative standard deviation compared to the theoretical concentration of volatile material in the exposure chamber for each of the tests required in this method. If data that meet the requirement of this Addendum are available in the peer reviewed open literature for VOCs of interest collected on your passive sorbent tube configuration, then such data may be submitted in lieu of the testing required in this Addendum.

A.1.3 You must expose sorbent tubes in a test chamber to parts per trillion by volume (pptv) and low parts per billion by volume (ppbv) concentrations of VOCs in humid atmospheres to determine the sorbent tube uptake rate and to confirm compound capture and recovery.

A.2.1 Known concentrations of VOC are metered into an exposure chamber containing sorbent tubes filled with media selected to capture the volatile organic compounds of interest (see Figure A.1 and A.2 for an example of the exposure chamber and sorbent tube retaining rack). VOC are diluted with humid air and the chamber is allowed to equilibrate for 6 hours. Clean passive sampling devices are placed into the chamber and exposed for a measured period of time. The passive uptake rate of the passive sampling devices is determined using the standard and dilution gas flow rates. Chamber concentrations are confirmed with whole gas sample collection and analysis or direct interface volatile organic compound measurement methods.

A.2.2 An exposure chamber and known gas concentrations must be used to challenge and evaluate the collection and recovery of target compounds from the sorbent and tube selected to perform passive measurements of VOC in atmospheres.
