
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

11.2.6 Pre-purge. Each tube should be purged to vent with carrier gas flowing in the desorption direction (flowing into the tube from the non-sampling end) to remove oxygen before heat is applied. This is to prevent analyte and sorbent oxidation and to prevent deterioration of key analyzer components such as the GC column and mass spectrometer (if applicable). A series of schematics illustrating these steps is presented in Figures 17.2 and 17.3.

11.3.1.1 Ensure that the pressure and purity of purge and carrier gases supplying the TD/GC/MS system, meet manufacturer specifications and the requirements of this method.

11.3.1.2 Ensure also that the analytical method selected meets the QC requirements of this method (Section 9) and that all the analytical parameters are at set point.

11.3.1.3 Conduct predesorption system checks (see Section 11.2).

11.3.1.4 Desorb the sorbent tube under conditions demonstrated to achieve >95 percent recovery of target compounds (see Section 9.5.2).

11.3.1.5 The split conditions selected for optimum field sample analysis must also be demonstrated on representative standards.

11.3.1.6 Analyzed tubes must be resealed with long-term storage caps immediately after analysis (manual systems) or after completion of a sequence (automated systems). This prevents contamination, minimizing the extent of tube reconditioning required before subsequent reuse.

11.3.2.1 Heat/cool the GC oven to its starting set point.

11.3.2.2 If using a GC/MS system, it can be operated in either MS-Scan or MS-SIM mode (depending on required sensitivity levels and the type of mass spectrometer selected). As soon as trap desorption and transfer of analytes into the GC column triggers the start of the GC/MS analysis, collect mass spectral data over a range of masses from 35 to 300 amu. Collect at least 10 data points per eluting chromatographic peak in order to adequately integrate and quantify target compounds.

11.3.2.3 Use secondary ion quantitation only when there are sample matrix interferences with the primary ion. If secondary ion quantitation is performed, flag the data and document the reasons for the alternative quantitation procedure.

11.3.2.4 Data reduction is performed by the instruments post processing program that is automatically accessed after data acquisition is completed at the end of the GC run. The concentration of each target compound is calculated using the previously established response factors for the CCV analyzed in Section 11.1.1.6.

11.3.2.5 Whenever the thermal desorption-GC/MS analytical method is changed or major equipment maintenance is performed, you must conduct a new five-level calibration (see section 10.0). System calibration remains valid as long as results from subsequent CCV are within 30 percent of the most recent 5-point calibration (see section 9.13). Include relevant CCV data in the supporting information in the data report for each set of samples.

11.3.2.6 Document, flag and explain all sample results that exceed the calibration range. Report flags and provide documentation in the analytical results for the affected sample(s).

12.1.1 Label sample tubes with a unique identification number as described in Section 6.3.

12.1.2 Keep records of the tube numbers and sorbent lots used for each sampling period.

12.1.3 Keep records of sorbent tube packing if tubes are manually prepared in the laboratory and not supplied commercially. These records must include the masses and/or bed lengths of sorbent(s) contained in each tube, the maximum allowable temperature for that tube and the date each tube was packed. If a tube is repacked at any stage, record the date of tube repacking and any other relevant information required in Section 12.1.

12.1.4 Keep records of the conditioning and blanking of tubes. These records must include, but are not limited to, the unique identification number and measured background resulting from the tube conditioning.

12.1.5 Record the location, dates, tube identification and times associated with each sample collection. Record this information on a Chain of Custody form that is sent to the analytical laboratory.

12.1.6 Field sampling personnel must complete and send a Chain of Custody to the analysis laboratory (see Section 8.6.4 of Method 325A for what information to include and Section 17.0 of this method for an example form). Duplicate copies of the Chain of Custody must be included with the sample report and stored with the field test data archive.

12.1.7 Field sampling personnel must also keep records of the unit vector wind direction, sigma theta, temperature and barometric pressure averages for the sampling period. See Section 8.3.4 of Method 325A.

12.1.8 Laboratory personnel must record the sample receipt date, and analysis date.

12.1.9 Laboratory personnel must maintain records of the analytical method and sample results in electronic or hardcopy in sufficient detail to reconstruct the calibration, sample, and quality control results from each sampling period.

12.2.1 Complete the calculations in this section to determine compliance with calibration quality control criteria (see also Table 17.1).

12.2.1.1 Response factor (RF). Calculate the RF using Equation 12.1:

12.2.1.2 Standard deviation of the response factors (SD). Calculate the SDRF using Equation 12.2:

12.2.1.3 Percent deviation (%DEV). Calculate the %DEV using Equation 12.3:

12.2.1.4 Relative percent difference (RPD). Calculate the RPD using Equation 12.4:

12.2.2 Determine the equivalent concentrations of compounds in atmospheres as follows. Correct target compound concentrations determined at the sampling site temperature and atmospheric pressure to standard conditions (25 &#xB0;C and 760 mm mercury) using Equation 12.5.

Diffusive uptake rates (U) for common VOCs, using carbon sorbents packed into sorbent tubes of the dimensions specified in section 6.1, are listed in Table 12.1. Adjust analytical conditions to keep expected sampled masses within range (see sections 11.3.1.3 to 11.3.1.5). Best possible method detection limits are typically in the order of 0.1 ppb for 1,3-butadiene and 0.05 ppb for volatile aromatics such as benzene for 14-day monitoring. However, actual detection limits will depend upon the analytical conditions selected.

The performance of this procedure for VOC not listed in Table 12.1 is determined using the procedure in Addendum A of this Method or by one of the following national/international standard methods: ISO 16017-2:2003(E), ASTM D6196-03 (Reapproved 2009), or BS EN 14662-4:2005 (all incorporated by reference-see § 63.14).

13.1 The valid range for measurement of VOC is approximately 0.5 µg/mto 5 mg/min air, collected over a 14-day sampling period. The upper limit of the useful range depends on the split ratio selected (Section 11.3.1) and the dynamic range of the analytical system. The lower limit of the useful range depends on the noise from the analytical instrument detector and on the blank level of target compounds or interfering compounds on the sorbent tube (see Section 13.3).
