
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.

10.6.1 If it is not possible to prepare one standard containing all the compounds of interest (, because of chemical reactivity or the breadth of the volatility range), standard tubes can be prepared from multiple gas or liquid standards.

10.6.2 Follow the procedures described in Sections 10.4 and 10.5, respectively, for introducing each gas and/or liquid standard to the tube and load those containing the highest boiling compounds of interest first and the lightest species last.

10.7 Additional requirements for preparation of calibration tubes.

10.7.1 Storage of Calibration Standard Tubes

10.7.1.1 Seal tubes with long-term storage caps immediately after they have been disconnected from the standard loading manifold or injection apparatus.

10.7.1.2 Calibration standard tubes may be stored for no longer than 30 days and should be refrigerated if there is any risk of chemical interaction or degradation. Audit standards (see section 9.11) are exempt from this criteria and may be stored for the shelf-life specified on their certificates.

10.8 Keep records for calibration standard tubes to include the following:

10.8.1 The stock number of any commercial liquid or gas standards used.

10.8.2 A chromatogram of the most recent blank for each tube used as a calibration standard together with the associated analytical conditions and date of cleaning.

10.8.3 Date of standard loading.

10.8.4 List of standard components, approximate masses and associated confidence levels.

10.8.5 Example analysis of an identical standard with associated analytical conditions.

10.8.6 A brief description of the method used for standard preparation.

10.8.7 The standard's expiration date.

10.9 TD/GC/MS using standard tubes to calibrate system response.

10.9.1 Verify that the TD/GC/MS analytical system meets the instrument performance criteria given in Section 9.1.

10.9.2 The prepared calibration standard tubes must be analyzed using the analytical conditions applied to field samples (see Section 11.0) and must be selected to ensure quantitative transfer and adequate chromatographic resolution of target compounds, surrogates, and internal standards in order to enable reliable identification and quantitation of compounds of interest. The analytical conditions should also be sufficiently stringent to prevent buildup of higher boiling, non-target contaminants that may be collected on the tubes during field monitoring.

10.9.3 Calibration range. Each TD/GC/MS system must be calibrated at five concentrations that span the monitoring range of interest before being used for sample analysis. This initial multi-level calibration determines instrument sensitivity under the analytical conditions selected and the linearity of GC/MS response for the target compounds. One of the calibration points must be within a factor of five of the detection limit for the compounds of interest.
