
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.

10.9.5 Calibration frequency. Each GC/MS system must be recalibrated with a full 5-point calibration curve following corrective action (, ion source cleaning or repair, column replacement) or if the instrument fails the daily calibration acceptance criteria.

10.9.5.1 CCV checks must be carried out on a regular routine basis as described in Section 9.14.

10.9.5.2 Quantitation ions for the target compounds are shown in Table 10.1. Use the primary ion unless interferences are present, in which case you should use a secondary ion.

11.1.1 Each sequence of analyses must be ordered as follows:

11.1.1.1 CCV.

11.1.1.2 A laboratory blank.

11.1.1.3 Field blank.

11.1.1.4 Sample(s).

11.1.1.5 Field blank.

11.1.1.6 CCV after 10 field samples.

11.1.1.7 CCV at the end of the sample batch.

11.2.1 Ensure all sample tubes and field blanks are at ambient temperature before removing them from the storage container.

11.2.2 If using an automated TD/GC/MS analyzer, remove the long-term storage caps from the tubes, replace them with appropriate analytical caps, and load them into the system in the sequence described in Section 11.1. Alternatively, if using a manual system, uncap and analyze each tube, one at a time, in the sequence described in Section 11.1.

11.2.3 The following thermal desorption system integrity checks and procedures are required before each tube is analyzed.

11.2.3.1 Tube leak test: Each tube must be leak tested as soon as it is loaded into the carrier gas flow path before analysis to ensure data integrity.

11.2.3.2 Conduct the leak test at the GC carrier gas pressure, without heat or gas flow applied. Tubes that fail the leak test should not be analyzed, but should be resealed and stored intact. On automated systems, the instrument should continue to leak test and analyze subsequent tubes after a given tube has failed. Automated systems must also store and record which tubes in a sequence have failed the leak test. Information on failed tubes should be downloaded with the batch of sequence information from the analytical system.

11.2.3.3 Leak test the sample flow path. Leak check the sample flow path of the thermal desorber before each analysis without heat or gas flow applied to the sample tube. Stop the automatic sequence of tube desorption and GC analysis if any leak is detected in the main sample flow path. This process may be carried out as a separate step or as part of Section 11.2.3.2.

11.2.4.1 Tubes may be dry purged with a flow of pure dry gas passing into the tube from the sampling end, to remove water vapor and other very volatile interferents if required.

11.2.5.1 Use the internal standard addition function of the automated thermal desorber (if available) to introduce a precise aliquot of the internal standard to the sampling end of each tube after the leak test and shortly before primary (tube) desorption).

11.2.5.2 If the analyzer does not have a facility for automatic IS addition, gas or liquid internal standard can be manually introduced to the sampling end of tubes in a flow of carrier gas using the types of procedure described in Sections 10.3 and 10.4, respectively.
