
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

7.1.4 Passive (diffusive) sampling and thermal desorption methods that have been evaluated at relatively high atmospheric concentrations (mid-ppb to ppm) and published for use in workplace air and industrial/mobile source emissions testing (References 9-20) may be applied to this procedure. However, the validity of any shorter term uptake rates must be verified and adjusted if necessary for the longer monitoring periods required by this method by following procedures described in Addendum A to this method or those presented in national/international standard methods: ISO 16017-2:2003(E), ASTM D6196-03 (Reapproved 2009), or BS EN 14662-4:2005 (all incorporated by reference-see § 63.14).

7.1.5 Suitable sorbents for passive sampling must have breakthrough volumes of at least 20 L (preferably >100 L) for the compounds of interest and must quantitatively release the analytes during desorption without exceeding maximum temperatures for the sorbent or instrumentation.

7.1.6 Repack/replace the sorbent tubes or demonstrate tube performance following the requirements in Addendum A to this method at least every 2 years or every 50 uses, whichever occurs first.

7.2.1 Static or dynamic standard atmospheres may be used to prepare calibration tubes and/or to validate passive sampling uptake rates and can be generated from pure chemicals or by diluting concentrated gas standards. The standard atmosphere must be stable at ambient pressure and accurate to +/-10 percent of the target gas concentration. It must be possible to maintain standard atmosphere concentrations at the same or lower levels than the target compound concentration objectives of the test. Test atmospheres used for validation of uptake rates must also contain at least 35 percent relative humidity.

7.2.2 Concentrated, pressurized gas phase standards. Accurate (+/-5 percent or better), concentrated gas phase standards supplied in pressurized cylinders may also be used for calibration. The concentration of the standard should be such that a 0.5-5.0 mL volume contains approximately the same mass of analytes as will be collected from a typical air sample.

7.2.3 Follow manufacturer's guidelines concerning storage conditions and recertification of the concentrated gas phase standard. Gas standards must be recertified a minimum of once every 12 months.

Target analytes can also be introduced to the sampling end of sorbent tubes in the form of liquid calibration standards.

7.3.1 The concentration of liquid standards must be such that an injection of 0.5-2 µl of the solution introduces the same mass of target analyte that is expected to be collected during the passive air sampling period.

7.3.2 Solvent Selection. The solvent selected for the liquid standard must be pure (contaminants <10 percent of minimum analyte levels) and must not interfere chromatographically with the compounds of interest.

7.3.3 If liquid standards are sourced commercially, follow manufacturer's guidelines concerning storage conditions and shelf life of unopened and opened liquid stock standards.

7.3.4 Working standards must be stored at 6 &#xB0;C or less and used or discarded within two weeks of preparation.

7.4.1 Gas-phase deuterated or fluorinated organic compounds may be used as internal standards for MS-based systems.

7.4.2 Typical compounds include deuterated toluene, perfluorobenzene and perfluorotoluene.

7.4.3 Use multiple internal standards to cover the volatility range of the target analytes.

7.4.4 Gas-phase standards must be obtained in pressurized cylinders and containing vendor certified gas concentrations accurate to +/-5 percent. The concentration should be such that the mass of internal standard components introduced is similar to those of the target analytes collected during field monitoring.

Certified, preloaded standard tubes, accurate within +/-5 percent for each analyte at the microgram level and +/-10 percent at the nanogram level, are available commercially and may be used for auditing and quality control purposes. (See Section 9.5 for audit accuracy evaluation criteria.) Certified preloaded tubes may also be used for routine calibration.

Use inert, 99.999-percent or higher purity helium as carrier gas. Oxygen and organic filters must be installed in the carrier gas lines supplying the analytical system according to the manufacturer's instructions. Keep records of filter and oxygen scrubber replacement.

8.1.1 Sampling tubes must be conditioned using the apparatus described in Section 6.2.

8.1.2 New tubes should be conditioned for 2 hours to supplement the vendor's conditioning procedure. Recommended temperatures for tube conditioning are given in Table 8.1.

8.1.3 After conditioning, the blank must be verified on each new sorbent tube and on 10 percent of each batch of reconditioned tubes. See Section 9.0 for acceptance criteria.

8.2.1 Conditioned tubes must be sealed using long-term storage caps (see Section 6.4) pushed fully down onto both ends of the PS sorbent tube, tightened by hand and then tighten an additional quarter turn using an appropriate tool.

8.2.2 The capped tubes must be kept in appropriate containers for storage and transportation (see Section 6.4.2). Containers of sorbent tubes may be stored and shipped at ambient temperature and must be kept in a clean environment.

8.2.3 You must keep batches of capped tubes in their shipping boxes or wrap them in uncoated aluminum foil before placing them in their storage container, especially before air freight, because the packaging helps hold caps in position if the tubes get very cold.

8.3.1 Follow guidance given in Method 325A to determine the number of tubes required for site monitoring.

8.3.2 The following additional samples will also be required: Laboratory blanks as specified in Section 9.1.2 (one per analytical sequence minimum), field blanks as specified in Section 9.3.2 (two per sampling period minimum), CCV tubes as specified in Section 10.9.4. (at least one per analysis sequence or every 24 hours), and duplicate samples as specified in Section 9.4 (at least one duplicate sample is required for every 10 sampling locations during each monitoring period).

8.4.1 Allow the tubes to equilibrate with ambient temperature (approximately 30 minutes to 1 hour) at the monitoring location before removing them from their storage/shipping container for sample collection.

8.4.2 Tubes must be used for sampling within 30 days of conditioning (Reference 4).

8.4.3 During field monitoring, the long-term storage cap at the sampling end of the tube is replaced with a diffusion cap and the whole assembly is arranged vertically, with the sampling end pointing downward, under a protective hood or shield-See Section 6.1 of Method 325A for more details.

8.5.1 After sampling, tubes must be immediately resealed with long-term storage caps and placed back inside the type of storage container described in Section 6.4.2.

8.5.2 Exposed tubes may not be placed in the same container as clean tubes. They should not be taken back out of the container until ready for analysis and after they have had time to equilibrate with ambient temperature in the laboratory.

8.5.3 Sampled tubes must be inspected before analysis to identify problems such as loose or missing caps, damaged tubes, tubes that appear to be leaking sorbent or container contamination. Any and all such problems must be documented together with the unique identification number of the tube or tubes concerned. Affected tubes must not be analyzed but must be set aside.

8.5.4 Intact tubes must be analyzed within 30 days of the end of sample collection (within one week for limonene, carene, bis-chloromethyl ether, labile sulfur or nitrogen-containing compounds, and other reactive VOCs).

The analytical system must be demonstrated to be contaminant free by performing a blank analysis at the beginning of each analytical sequence to demonstrate that the secondary trap and TD/GC/MS analytical equipment are free of any significant interferents.

9.1.1 Laboratory blank tubes must be prepared from tubes that are identical to those used for field sampling.

9.1.2 Analysis of at least one laboratory blank is required per analytical sequence. The laboratory blank must be stored in the laboratory under clean, controlled ambient temperature conditions.

9.1.3 Laboratory blank/artifact levels must meet the requirements of Section 9.2.2 (see also Table 17.1). If the laboratory blank does not meet requirements, stop and perform corrective actions and then re-analyze laboratory blank to ensure it meets requirements.

9.2.1 Conditioned tubes must be demonstrated to be free of contaminants and interference by running 10 percent of the blank tubes selected at random from each conditioned batch under standard sample analysis conditions (see Section 8.1).

9.2.2 Confirm that artifacts and background contamination are &#x2264; 0.2 ppbv or less than three times the detection limit of the procedure or less than 10 percent of the target compound(s) mass that would be collected if airborne concentrations were at the regulated limit value, whichever is larger. Only tubes that meet these criteria can be used for field monitoring, field or laboratory blanks, or for system calibration.

9.2.3 If unacceptable levels of VOCs are observed in the tube blanks, then the processes of tube conditioning and checking the blanks must be repeated.
