
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

9.3.1 Field blank tubes must be prepared from tubes that are identical to those used for field sampling-they should be from the same batch, have a similar history, and be conditioned at the same time.

9.3.2 Field blanks must be shipped to the monitoring site with the sampling tubes and must be stored at the sampling location throughout the monitoring exercise. The field blanks must be installed under a protective hood/cover at the sampling location, but the long-term storage caps must remain in place throughout the monitoring period (see Method 325A). The field blanks are then shipped back to the laboratory in the same container as the sampled tubes. Collect at least two field blank samples per sampling period to ensure sample integrity associated with shipment, collection, and storage.

9.3.3 Field blanks must contain no greater than one-third of the measured target analyte or compliance limit for field samples (see Table 17.1). If either field blank fails, flag all data that do not meet this criterion with a note that the associated results are estimated and likely to be biased high due to field blank background.

Duplicate (co-located) samples collected must be analyzed and reported as part of method quality control. They are used to evaluate sampling and analysis precision. Relevant performance criteria are given in Section 9.9.

Unless otherwise noted, monitoring method performance specifications must be demonstrated for the target compounds using the procedures described in Addendum A to this method and the statistical approach presented in Method 301.

Determine the method detection limit under the analytical conditions selected (see Section 11.3) using the procedure in Section 15 of Method 301. The method detection limit is defined for each system by making seven replicate measurements of a concentration of the compound of interest within a factor of five of the detection limit. Compute the standard deviation for the seven replicate concentrations, and multiply this value by three. The results should demonstrate that the method is able to detect analytes such as benzene at concentrations as low as 50 ppt or 1/3rd (preferably 1/10th) of the lowest concentration of interest, whichever is larger.

Analytical bias must be demonstrated to be within +/-30 percent using Equation 9.1. Analytical bias must be demonstrated during initial setup of this method and as part of the CCV carried out with every sequence of 10 samples or less (see Section 9.14). Calibration standard tubes (see Section 10.0) may be used for this purpose.

Demonstrate an analytical precision within +/-20 percent using Equation 9.2. Analytical precision must be demonstrated during initial setup of this method and at least once per year. Calibration standard tubes may be used (see Section 10.0) and data from CCV may also be applied for this purpose.

Use Equation 9.3 to determine and report replicate precision for duplicate field samples (see Section 9.4). The level of agreement between duplicate field samples is a measure of the precision achievable for the entire sampling and analysis procedure. Flag data sets for which the duplicate samples do not agree within 30 percent.

The efficiency of the thermal desorption method must be determined.

9.10.1 Quantitative (>95 percent) compound recovery must be demonstrated by repeat analyses on a same standard tube.

9.10.2 Compound recovery through the TD system can also be demonstrated by comparing the calibration check sample response factor obtained from direct GC injection of liquid standards with that obtained from thermal desorption analysis response factor using the same column under identical conditions.

9.10.3 If the relative response factors obtained for one or more target compounds introduced to the column via thermal desorption fail to meet the criteria in Section 9.10.1, you must adjust the TD parameters to meet the criteria and repeat the experiment. Once the thermal desorption conditions have been optimized, you must repeat this test each time the analytical system is recalibrated to demonstrate continued method performance.

Certified reference standard samples must be used to audit this procedure (if available). Accuracy within 30 percent must be demonstrated for relevant ambient air concentrations (0.5 to 25 ppb).

Tune the mass spectrometer (if used) according to manufacturer's specifications. Verify the instrument performance by analyzing a 50 &#x3B7;g injection of bromofluorobenzene. Prior to the beginning of each analytical sequence or every 24 hours during continuous GC/MS operation for this method demonstrate that the bromofluorobenzene tuning performance criteria in Table 9.1 have been met.

Run CCV before each sequence of analyses and after every tenth sample to ensure that the previous multi-level calibration (see section 10.0) is still valid.

9.13.1 The sample concentration used for the CCV should be near the mid-point of the multi-level calibration range.

9.13.2 Quantitation software must be updated with response factors determined from the CCV standard. The percent deviation between the initial calibration and the CCV for all compounds must be within 30 percent.

Run another CCV after running each sequence of samples. The initial CCV for a subsequent set of samples may be used as the final CCV for a previous analytical sequence, provided the same analytical method is used and the subsequent set of samples is analyzed immediately (within 4 hours) after the last CCV.

Use a calibration check standard from a second, separate source to verify the original calibration at least once every three months.

Document the procedure used for integration of analytical data including field samples, calibration standards and blanks.

Maintain all QC reports/records for each TD/GC/MS analytical system used for application of this method. Routine quality control requirements for this method are listed below and summarized in Table 17.1.

10.1 Calibrate the analytical system using standards covering the range of analyte masses expected from field samples.

10.2 Analytical results for field samples must fall within the calibrated range of the analytical system to be valid.

10.3 Calibration standard preparation must be fully traceable to primary standards of mass and/or volume, and/or be confirmed using an independent certified reference method.

10.3.1 Preparation of calibration standard tubes from standard atmospheres.

10.3.1.1 Subject to the requirements in Section 7.2.1, low-level standard atmospheres may be introduced to clean, conditioned sorbent tubes in order to produce calibration standards.

10.3.1.2 The standard atmosphere generator or system must be capable of producing sufficient flow at a constant rate to allow the required analyte mass to be introduced within a reasonable time frame and without affecting the concentration of the standard atmosphere itself.

10.3.1.3 The sampling manifold may be heated to minimize risk of condensation but the temperature of the gas delivered to the sorbent tubes may not exceed 100 &#xB0;F.

10.3.1.4 The flow rates passed through the tube should be in the order of 50-100 mL/min and the volume of standard atmosphere sampled from the manifold or chamber must not exceed the breakthrough volume of the sorbent at the given temperature.

10.4 Preparation of calibration standard tubes from concentrated gas standards.

10.4.1 If a suitable concentrated gas standard (see Section 7.2.2) can be obtained, follow the manufacturer's recommendations relating to suitable storage conditions and product lifetime.

10.4.2 Introduce precise 0.5 to 500.0 mL aliquots of the standard to the sampling end of conditioned sorbent tubes in a 50-100 mL/min flow of pure carrier gas.

10.4.3 Each sorbent tube should be left connected to the flow of gas for 2 minutes after standard introduction. As soon as each spiked tube is removed from the injection unit, seal it with long-term storage caps and place it in an appropriate tube storage/transportation container if it is not to be analyzed within 24 hours.

10.5 Preparation of calibration standard tubes from liquid standards.

10.5.1 Suitable standards are described in Section 7.3.

10.5.2 Introduce precise 0.5 to 2 µl aliquots of liquid standards to the sampling end of sorbent tubes in a flow (50-100 mL/min) of carrier gas using a precision syringe and an unheated injector (Section 6.5). The flow of gas should be sufficient to completely vaporize the liquid standard.

10.5.3 Each sorbent tube is left connected to the flow of gas for 5 minutes after liquid standard introduction.

10.5.3.1 As soon as each spiked tube is removed from the injection unit, seal it with long-term storage caps and place it in an appropriate tube storage container if it is not to be analyzed within 24 hours.

10.6 Preparation of calibration standard tubes from multiple standards.
