
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### VOC

A.3.13is volatile organic compound.

A.4.1 VOC contaminants in water can contribute interference or bias results high. Use only distilled, organic-free water for dilution gas humidification.

A.4.2 Solvents and other VOC-containing liquids can contaminate the exposure chamber. Store and use solvents and other VOC-containing liquids in the exhaust hood when exposure experiments are in progress to prevent the possibility of contamination of VOCs into the chamber through the chamber's exhaust vent.

A.4.3 PSDs should be handled by personnel wearing only clean, white cotton or powder free nitrile gloves to prevent contamination of the PSDs with oils from the hands.

A.4.4 This performance evaluation procedure is applicable to only volatile materials that can be measured accurately with direct interface gas chromatography or whole gas sample collection, concentration and analysis. Alternative methods to confirm the concentration of volatile materials in exposure chambers are subject to Administrator approval.

A.5.1 This procedure does not address all of the safety concerns associated with its use. It is the responsibility of the user of this standard to establish appropriate field and laboratory safety and health practices and determine the applicability of regulatory limitations prior to use.

A.5.2 Laboratory analysts must exercise appropriate care in working with high-pressure gas cylinders.

A.6.1 You must use an exposure chamber of sufficient size to simultaneously expose a minimum of eight sorbent tubes.

A.6.2 Your exposure chamber must not contain VOC that interfere with the compound under evaluation. Chambers made of glass and/or stainless steel have been used successfully for measurement of known concentration of selected VOC compounds.

A.6.3 The following equipment and supplies are needed:

- Clean, white cotton or nitrile gloves;

- Conditioned passive sampling device tubes and diffusion caps; and

- NIST traceable high resolution digital gas mass flow meters (MFMs) or flow controllers (MFCs).

A.7.1 You must generate an exposure gas that contains between 35 and 75 percent relative humidity and a concentration of target compound(s) within 2 to 5 times the concentration to be measured in the field.

A.7.2 Target gas concentrations must be generated with certified gas standards and diluted with humid clean air. Dilution to reach the desired concentration must be done with zero grade air or better.

A.7.3 The following reagents and standards are needed:

- Distilled water for the humidification;
