
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix B to Part 63 - Sources Defined for Early Reduction Provisions
####### Quality Control/Quality Assurance (QA/QC).

3.A QA/QC plan outlining the procedures used to determine the biodegradation rate constants shall be prepared and a copy maintained at the source. The plan should include, but may not be limited to:

1. A description of the apparatus used (e.g., size, volume, method of supplying air or oxygen, mixing, and sampling procedures) including a simplified schematic drawing.

2. A description of how biomass was sampled from the activated sludge unit.

3. A description of how biomass was held prior to testing (age, etc.).

4. A description of what conditions (DO, gas-liquid equilibrium, temperature, etc.) are important, what the target values are, how the factors were controlled, and how well they were controlled.

5. A description of how the experiment was conducted, including preparation of solutions, dilution procedures, sampling procedures, monitoring of conditions, etc.

6. A description of the analytical instrumentation used, how the instruments were calibrated, and a summary of the precision for that equipment.

7. A description of the analytical procedures used. If appropriate, reference to an ASTM, EPA or other procedure may be used. Otherwise, describe how the procedure is done, what is done to measure precision, accuracy, recovery, etc., as appropriate.

8. A description of how data are captured, recorded, and stored.

9. A description of the equations used and their solutions, including a reference to any software used for calculations and/or curve-fitting.

Procedure 5 is the concentration measurement method that can be used to determine the ffor units that are not thoroughly mixed and thus have multiple zones of mixing. As with the other procedures, proper determination of fmust be made on a system as it would exist under the rule. For purposes of this calculation, the biological unit must be dividedinto zones with uniform characteristics within each zone. The number of zones that is used depends on the complexity of the unit. Reference 8, "Technical Support Document for the Evaluation of Aerobic Biological Treatment Units with Multiple Mixing Zones," is a source for further information concerning how to determine the number of zones that should be used for evaluating your unit. The following information on the biological unit must be available to use this procedure: basic unit variables such as inlet and recycle wastewater flow rates, type of agitation, and operating conditions; measured representative organic compound concentrations in each zone and the inlet and outlet; and estimated mass transfer coefficients for each zone.

Reference 8 "Technical Support Document for the Evaluation of Aerobic Biological Treatment Units with Multiple Mixing Zones," is a source for further information concerning how to interpolate the biorates for multiple zones. In units with well-characterized concentration measurements obtained in an initial evaluation of the unit, it may be possible to demonstrate that there is a good correlation of the component concentrations with the locations in the multiple-zone unit. With this good correlation, it may be possible to accurately predict the concentrations in selected zones without actually testing each selected zone. This correlation method may be used for units that have many zones (greater than 5) or where one of the interior zones is not readily accessible for sampling. To use this correlation method of estimating zone concentrations, it is necessary to measure the concentrations in the inlet unit, the exit unit, and sufficient interior units to obtain a correlation of component concentrations with the locations. You cannot use this correlation method of estimating selected zone concentrations if monitoring of each zone is required, or if the accuracy and precision of the correlation is inferior to actual individual sampling error. The accuracy and precision of the correlation may be improved by increasing the number of locations tested. Because the correlation is based on many samples, it should provide an accurate representation of a stable operating system.

The estimated mass transfer coefficient for each compound in each zone is obtained from Form II using the characteristics of each zone. A computer model may be used. If the Water7 model or the most recent update to this model is used, then use Form II-A to calculate KL. The TOXCHEM or BASTE model may also be used to calculate KL for the biological treatment unit, with the stipulations listed in Procedure 304B. Compound concentration measurements for each zone are used in Form XIII to calculate the f. A copy of Form XIII is completed for each of the compounds of concern treated in the biological unit.

At this point, the individual fdetermined by the previously explained procedures must be summed to obtain the total F. To determine the Fmultiply each compound specific fby the compound-specific average mass flow rate of the organic compound in the wastewater stream (see regulation for instruction on calculation of average mass flow rate). Sum these products and divide by the total wastewater stream average mass flow rate of organic compounds.

The Fis then used in the applicable compliance equations in the regulation to determine if biodegradation may be used to comply with the treatment standard without covering and venting to an air pollution control device.

1. Rajagopalan, S. et al. "Comparison of Methods for Determining Biodegradation Kinetics of Volatile Organic Compounds." Proceedings of Water Environment Federation. 67th Annual Conference, October 15-19, 1994.

2. Ellis, T.G. et al. "Determination of Toxic Organic Chemical Biodegradation Kinetics Using Novel Respirometric Technique". Proceedings Water Environment Federation, 67th Annual Conference, October 15-19, 1994.

3. Pitter, P. and J. Chudoba. Biodegradability of Organic Substances in the Aquatic Environment. CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL. 1990.

4. Grady, C.P.L., B. Smets, and D. Barbeau. Variability in kinetic parameter estimates: A review of possible causes and a proposed terminology. Wat. Res. 30 (3), 742-748, 1996.

5. Eaton, A.D., et al. eds., Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 19th Edition, American Public Health Association, Washington, DC, 1995.

6. Chudoba P., B. Capdeville, and J. Chudoba. Explanation of biological meaning of the So/Xo ratio in batch cultivation. Wat. Sci. Tech. 26 (3/4), 743-751, 1992.

7. Technical Support Document for Evaluation of Thoroughly Mixed Biological Treatment Units. November 1998.

8. Technical Support Document for the Evaluation of Aerobic Biological Treatment Units with Multiple Mixing Zones. July 1999.
