
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### i.e.,

11.1 Analytical Calibration. Perform a multipoint calibration of the instrument at six or more upscale points over the desired quantitative range (multiple calibration ranges shall be calibrated, if necessary). The field samples analyzed must fall within at least one of the calibrated quantitative ranges and meet the performance criteria specified below. The lowest point in your calibration curve must be at least 5, and preferably 10, times the MDL. For each calibration curve, the value of the square of the linear correlation coefficient,r, must be ≥0.995, and the analyzer response must be within +/-10 percent of the reference value at each upscale calibration point. Calibrations must be performed on each day of the analysis, before analyzing any of the samples. Following calibration, a secondary standard shall be analyzed. A continual calibration verification (CCV) must also be performed prior to any sample and after every ten samples. The measured value of this independently prepared standard must be within +/-10 percent of the expected value. Report the results for each calibration standard secondary standard, and CCV as well as the conditions of the HPLC. The reports should include at least the peak area, height, and retention time for each isocyanate compound measured as well as a chromatogram for each standard.

11.2 Concentration of Samples. Transfer each sample to a 1,000-ml round bottom flask. Attach the flask to a rotary evaporator and gently evaporate to dryness under vacuum in a 65 &#xB0;C water bath. Rinse the round bottom flask three times each with 2 ml of acetonitrile and transfer the rinse to a 10-ml volumetric flask. Dilute the sample to volume with acetonitrile and transfer to a 15-ml vial and seal with a PTFE lined lid. Store the vial &#x2264;4 &#xB0;C until analysis.

11.3 Analysis. Analyze replicative samples by HPLC, using the appropriate conditions established in section 10.2. The width of the retention time window used to make identifications should be based upon measurements of actual retention time variations of standards over the course of a day. Three times the standard deviation of a retention time for a compound can be used to calculate a suggested window size; however, the experience of the analyst should weigh heavily in the interpretation of the chromatograms. If the peak area exceeds the linear range of the calibration curve, the sample must be diluted with acetonitrile and reanalyzed. Average the replicate results for each run. For each sample you must report the same information required for analytical calibrations (Section 11.1). For non-detect or values below the detection limit of the method, you shall report the value as "<" numerical detection limit.

Nomenclature and calculations, same as in Method 5, section 6, with the following additions below.

12.1 Nomenclature.

12.2 Conversion from Isocyanate to the Isocyanate-urea derivative. The equation for converting the amount of free isocyanate to the corresponding amount of isocyanate-urea derivative is as follows:

12.2 Conversion from Isocyanate to the Isocyanate-urea derivative. The equation for converting the amount of free isocyante to the corresponding amount of isocyante-urea derivative is as follows:

12.3 Calculate the correlation coefficient, slope, and intercepts for the calibration data using the least squares method for linear regression. Concentrations are expressed as the x-variable and response is expressed as the y-variable.

12.4 Calculate the concentration of isocyanate in the sample:

12.5 Calculate the total amount collected in the sample by multiplying the concentration (µg/ml) times the final volume of acetonitrile (10 ml).

12.6 Calculate the concentration of isocyanate (µg/dscm) in the stack gas.

12.7 Calculate Relative Percent Difference (RPD) for each replicative sample

12.8 Calculate Field Train Spike Recovery

12.9 Calculate Percent Breakthrough

Evaluation of sampling and analytical procedures for a selected series of compounds must meet the quality control criteria (See Section 9) for each associated analytical determination. The sampling and analytical procedures must be challenged by the test compounds spiked at appropriate levels and carried through the procedures.
