
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix B to Part 63 - Sources Defined for Early Reduction Provisions
####### Sealed Reactor Test.

2.This test uses a closed system to prevent losses of the test compound by volatilization. This test may be conducted using a serum bottle or a sealed draft tube reactor (for an example see Figure 3 of appendix C). Since no air is supplied, it is necessary to ensure that sufficient oxygen is present in the system. The DO concentration in the system must not fall below 2 mg/liter so that the biodegradation observed will not be DO-limited. As an alternative, oxygen may be supplied by electrolysis as needed to maintain the DO concentration above 2 mg/liter. The reactor contents must be uniformly mixed, by stirring or agitation using a shaker or similar apparatus. The test mixture (or compound) of interest is injected into the reactor and the concentration is monitored over time. A minimum of six samples shall be taken over the period of the test. However, it is necessary to monitor the concentration until it falls below the LOQ.

The equilibrium assumption must be verified for the batch reactor system. In this case, Kmay be determined by simultaneously measuring gas and liquid phase concentrations at different times within a given experiment. A constant ratio of gas/liquid concentrations indicates that equilibrium conditions are present and Kis not a function of concentration. This ratio is then taken as the Kfor the specific compound in the test. It is not necessary to measure Kfor each experiment. If the ratio is not constant, the equilibrium assumption is not valid and it is necessary to (1) increase mixing energy for the system and retest for the equilibrium assumption, or (2) use a different type of test (for example, a collapsible volume reactor).

The concentration of a compound decreases in the bioreactor due to biodegradation according to Equation App. C-5:

Equation App. C-5 can be solved analytically to give:

This equation is used along with the substrate concentration versus time data to determine the best fit parameters (Qand K) to describe the biodegradation process in the sealed reactor.

If the sealed reactor test is used, Form X is used to determine the headspace correction factor. The disappearance of a compound in the sealed reactor test is slowed because a fraction of the compound is not available for biodegradation because it is present in the headspace. If the compound is almost entirely in the liquid phase, the headspace correction factor is approximately one. If the headspace correction factor is substantially less than one, improved mass transfer or reduced headspace may improve the accuracy of the sealed reactor test. A preliminary sealed reactor test must be conducted to test the equilibrium assumption. As the compound of interest is degraded, simultaneous headspace and liquid samples should be collected and Form X should be used to evaluate KThe ratio of headspace to liquid concentrations must be constant in order to confirm that equilibrium conditions exist. If equilibrium conditions are not present, additional mixing or an alternate reactor configuration may be required.

The compound-specific biorate constants are then calculated using Form XII. For the sealed reactor test, a stripping rate constant of zero and the headspace correction factor that was determined from Form X are entered on Form XII. The sealed reactor test may then be run, measuring the concentrations of each compound of interest as a function of time. If headspace concentrations are measured instead of liquid concentrations, then the corresponding liquid concentrations are calculated from the headspace measurements using Kfrom Form X and entered on Form XII.

The concentration data on Form XII may contain scatter that can adversely influence the data interpretation. It is possible to curve fit the concentration data and enter the concentrations on the fitted curve instead of the actual data. If curve fitting is used, the curve-fitting procedure must be based upon Equation App. C-6. When curve fitting is used, it is necessary to attach a plot of the actual data and the fitted curve to Form XII.

If a sealed collapsible reactor is used that has no headspace, the headspace correction factor will equal 1, but the stripping rate constant may not equal 0 due to diffusion losses through the reactor wall. The ratio of the rate of loss of compound to the concentration of the compound in the reactor (units of per hour) must be evaluated. This loss ratio has the same units as the stripping rate constant and may be entered as the stripping rate constant on line 1 of Form XII.

If the loss due to diffusion through the walls of the collapsible reactor is relatively large when compared to the biorate at low concentrations, it may be difficult to obtain accurate evaluations of the first-order biorate constant. In these cases, either replacing the materials used to construct the reactor with materials of low permeability or increasing the biomass concentration should be considered.

The final result of the batch testing is the measurement of a biorate that can be used to estimate the fraction biodegraded, f. The number transferred to Form III is obtained from Form XII, line 9.

The number on Form XII line 9 will equal the Monod first-order biorate constant if the full-scale system is operated in the first-order range. If the full-scale system is operated at concentrations above that of the Monod first-order range, the value of the number on line 9 will be somewhat lower than the Monod first-order biorate constant. With supporting biorate data, the Monod model used in Form XII may be used to estimate the effective biorate constant K1 for use in Form III.

If a reactor with headspace is used, analysis of the data using equation App. C-6 is valid only if Vand Vdo not change more than 10% (i.e., they can be approximated as constant for the duration of the test). Since biodegradation is occurring only in the liquid, as the liquid concentration decreases it is necessary for mass to transfer from the gas to the liquid phase. This may require vigorous mixing and/or reducing the volume in the headspace of the reactor.

If there is no headspace (e.g., a collapsible reactor), equation App. C-6 is independent of Vand there are no restrictions on the liquid volume. If a membrane or bag is used as the collapsible-volume reactor, it may be important to monitor for diffusion losses in the system. To determine if there are losses, the bag should be used without biomass and spiked with the compound(s) of interest. The concentration of the compound(s) in the reactor should be monitored over time. The data are analyzed as described above for the sealed reactor test.
