
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix B to Part 63 - Sources Defined for Early Reduction Provisions
########### Appendix C to Part 63 - Determination of the Fraction Biodegraded (F) in a Biological Treatment Unit

The purpose of this appendix is to define the procedures for an owner or operator to use to calculate the site specific fraction of organic compounds biodegraded (F) in a biological treatment unit. If an acceptable level of organic compounds is destroyed rather than emitted to the air or remaining in the effluent, the biological treatment unit may be used to comply with the applicable treatment requirements without the unit being covered and vented through a closed vent system to an air pollution control device.

The determination of Fshall be made on a system as it would exist under the rule. The owner or operator should anticipate changes that would occur to the wastewater flow and concentration of organics, to be treated by the biological treatment unit, as a result of enclosing the collection and treatment system as required by the rule.

Unless otherwise specified, the procedures presented in this appendix are designed to be applied to thoroughly mixed treatment units. A thoroughly mixed treatment unit is a unit that is designed and operated to approach or achieve uniform biomass distribution and organic compound concentration throughout the aeration unit by quickly dispersing the recycled biomass and the wastewater entering the unit. Detailed discussion on how to determine if a biological treatment unit is thoroughly mixed can be found in reference 7. Systems that are not thoroughly mixed treatment units should be subdivided into a series of zones that have uniform characteristics within each zone. The number of zones required to characterize a biological treatment system will depend on the design and operation of the treatment system. Detailed discussion on how to determine the number of zones in a biological treatment unit and examples of determination of fcan be found in reference 8. Each zone should then be modeled as a separate unit. The amount of air emissions and biodegradation from the modeling of these separate zones can then be added to reflect the entire system.

Biological treatment unit = wastewater treatment unit designed and operated to promote the growth of bacteria to destroy organic materials in wastewater.

The first step in the analysis to determine if a biological treatment unit may be used without being covered and vented through a closed-vent system to an air pollution control device is to determine the compound-specific f. The following procedures may be used to determine f:

(1) The EPA Test Method 304A or 304B (appendix A, part 63)-Method for the Determination of Biodegradation Rates of Organic Compounds,

(2) Performance data with and without biodegradation,

(3) Inlet and outlet concentration measurements,

(4) Batch tests,

(5) Multiple zone concentration measurements.

All procedures must be executed so that the resulting fis based on the collection system and waste management units being in compliance with the rule. If the collection system and waste management units meet the suppression requirements at the time of the test, any of the procedures may be chosen. If the collection system and waste management units are not in compliance at the time of the performance test, then only Method 304A, B, or the batch test shall be chosen. If Method 304A, B, or the batch test is used, any anticipated changes to the influent of the full-scale biological treatment unit that will occur after the facility has enclosed the collection system must be represented in the influent feed to the benchtop bioreactor unit, or test unit.

Select one or more appropriate procedures from the five listed above based on the availability of site specific data and the type of mixing that occurs in the unit (thoroughly mixed or multiple mixing zone). If the facility does not have site-specific data on the removal efficiency of its biological treatment unit, then Procedure 1 or Procedure 4 may be used. Procedure 1 allows the use of a benchtop bioreactor to determine the first-order biodegradation rate constant. An owner or operator may elect to assume the first order biodegradation rate constant is zero for any regulated compound(s) present in the wastewater. Procedure 4 explains two types of batch tests which may be used to estimate the first order biodegradation rate constant. An owner or operator may elect to assume the first order biodegradation rate constant is zero for any regulated compound(s) present in the wastewater. Procedure 3 would be used if the facility has, or measures to determine, data on the inlet and outlet individual organic compound concentration for the biological treatment unit. Procedure 3 may only be used on a thoroughly mixed treatment unit. Procedure 5 is the concentration measurement test that can be used for units with multiple mixing zones. Procedure 2 is used if a facility has or obtains performance data on a biotreatment unit prior to and after addition of the microbial mass. An example where Procedure 2 could be used is an activated sludge unit where measurements have been taken on inlet and exit concentration of organic compounds in the wastewater prior to seeding with the microbial mass and startup of the unit. The flow chart in figure 1 outlines the steps to use for each of the procedures.

If the first procedure is selected, follow the instructions in appendix A of part 63 Method 304A "Method for the Determination of Biodegradation Rates of Organic Compounds (Vented Option)" or Method 304B "Method for the Determination of Biodegradation Rates of Organic Compounds (Scrubber Option)." Method 304A or 304B provides instruction on setting up and operating a self-contained benchtop bioreactor system which is operated under conditions representative of the target full-scale system. Method 304A uses a benchtop bioreactor system with a vent, and uses modeling to estimate any air emissions. Method 304B uses a benchtop bioreactor system which is equipped with a scrubber and is not vented.

There are some restrictions on which method a source may use. If the facility is measuring the rate of biodegradation of compounds that may tend to react or hydrolyze in the scrubber of Method 304B, this method shall not be used and Method 304A is the required method. If a Henry's law value is not available to use with Form V, then Method 304A shall not be used and Method 304B is the required method. When using either method, the feed flow to the benchtop bioreactor shall be representative of the flow and concentration of the wastewater that will be treated by the full-scale biological treatment unit after the collection and treatment system has been enclosed as required under the applicable subpart.

The conditions under which the full-scale biological treatment unit is run establish the operating parameters of Method 304A or 304B. If the biological treatment unit is operated under abnormal operating conditions (conditions outside the range of critical parameters examined and confirmed in the laboratory), the EPA believes this will adversely affect the biodegradation rate and is an unacceptable treatment option. The facility would be making multiple runs of the test method to simulate the operating range for its biological treatment unit. For wide ranges of variation in operating parameters, the facility shall demonstrate the biological treatment unit is achieving an acceptable level of control, as required by the regulation, across the ranges and not only at the endpoints.

If Method 304A is used, complete Form V initially. Form V is used to calculate K1 from the Method 304A results. Form V uses the Henry's law constant to estimate the fraction lost from the benchtop reactor vent. The owner or operator shall use the Henry's law values in Table I. Form V also gives direction for calculating an equivalent KL. Note on Form V if the calculated number for line 11 is greater than the calculated value for line 13, this procedure shall not be used to demonstrate the compound is biodegradable. If line 11 is greater than line 13, this is an indication the fraction emitted from the vent is greater than the fraction biodegraded. The equivalent KL determined on Form V is used in Form II (line 6). Estimation of the Fe and fmust be done following the steps in Form III. Form III uses the previously calculated values of K1 and KL (equivalent KL), and site-specific parameters of the full-scale bioreactor as input to the calculations. Forms II, III, and V must be completed for each organic compound in the wastewater to determine Fe and f.

If Method 304B is used, perform the method and use the measurements to determine K1, which is the first-order biodegradation rate constant. Form I lists the sequence of steps in the procedure for calculating K1 from the Method 304B results. Once K1 is determined, KL must be calculated by use of mass transfer equations. Form II outlines the procedure to follow for use of mass transfer equations to determine KL. A computer program which incorporates these mass transfer equations may be used. Water7 is a program that incorporates these mass transfer equations and may be used to determine KL. Refer to Form II-A to determine KL, if Water7 or the most recent update to this model is used. In addition, the Bay Area Sewage Toxics Emission (BASTE) model version 3.0 or equivalent upgrade and the TOXCHEM (Environment Canada's Wastewater Technology Centre and Environmega, Ltd.) model version 1.10 or equivalent upgrade may also be used to determine KL for the biological treatment unit with several stipulations. The programs must be altered to output a KL value which is based on the site-specific parameters of the unit modeled, and the Henry's law values listed in Table I must be substituted for the existing Henry's law values in the programs. Input values used in the model and corresponding output values shall become documentation of the fdetermination. The owner or operator should be aware these programs do not allow modeling of certain units. To model these units, the owner or operator shall use one of the other appropriate procedures as outlined in this appendix. The owner or operator shall not use a default value for KL. The KL value determined by use of these models shall be based on the site-specific parameters of the specific unit. This KL value shall be inserted in Form II (line 6). Estimation of the Fe and fmust be done following the steps in Form III. Form III uses the previously calculated values of K1 and KL, and site-specific parameters of the full-scale bioreactor as input to the calculations. Forms I, II, and III must be completed for each organic compound in the wastewater to determine Fe and f.

Procedure 2 uses site-specific performance data that represents or characterizes operation of the unit both with and without biodegradation. As previously mentioned, proper determination of fmust be made on a system as it would exist under the rule. Using Form IV, calculate KL and K1. After KL and K1 are determined, Form III is used to calculate Fe and ffor each organic compound present in the wastewater.

Procedure 3 uses measured inlet and outlet organic compound concentrations for the unit. This procedure may only be used on a thoroughly mixed treatment unit. Again, proper determination of fmust be made on a system as it would exist under the rule. The first step in using this procedure is to calculate KL using Form II. A computer model may be used. If the Water7 model or the most recent update to this model is used, then use Form II-A to calculate KL. After KL is determined using field data, complete Form VI to calculate K1. The TOXCHEM or BASTE model may also be used to calculate KL for the biological treatment unit, with the stipulations listed in procedure 304B. After KL and K1 are determined, Form III is used to calculate Fe and ffor each organic compound.

Two types of batch tests which may be used to determine kinetic parameters are: (1) The aerated reactor test and (2) the sealed reactor test. The aerated reactor test is also known as the BOX test (batch test with oxygen addition). The sealed reactor test is also known as the serum bottle test. These batch tests should be conducted only by persons familiar with procedures for determining biodegradation kinetics. Detailed discussions of batch procedures for determining biodegradation kinetic parameters can be found in references 1-4.

For both batch test approaches, a biomass sample from the activated sludge unit of interest is collected, aerated, and stored for no more than 4 hours prior to testing. To collect sufficient data when biodegradation is rapid, it may be necessary to dilute the biomass sample. If the sample is to be diluted, the biomass sample shall be diluted using treated effluent from the activated sludge unit of interest to a concentration such that the biodegradation test will last long enough to make at least six concentration measurements. It is recommended that the tests not be terminated until the compound concentration falls below the limit of quantitation (LOQ). Measurements that are below the LOQ should not be used in the data analysis. Biomass concentrations shall be determined using standard methods for measurement of mixed liquor volatile suspended solids (MLVSS) (reference 5).

The change in concentration of a test compound may be monitored by either measuring the concentration in the liquid or in the reactor headspace. The analytical technique chosen for the test should be as sensitive as possible. For the batch test procedures described in this section, equilibrium conditions must exist between the liquid and gas phases of the experiments because the data analysis procedures are based on this premise. To use the headspace sampling approach, the reactor headspace must be in equilibrium with the liquid so that the headspace concentrations can be correlated with the liquid concentrations. Before the biodegradation testing is conducted, the equilibrium assumption must be verified. A discussion of the equilibrium assumption verification is given below in sections D.1 and D.2 since different approaches are required for the two types of batch tests.

To determine biodegradation kinetic parameters in a batch test, it is important to choose an appropriate initial substrate (compound(s) of interest) concentration for the test. The outcome of the batch experiment may be influenced by the initial substrate (S) to biomass (X) ratio (see references 3, 4, and 6). This ratio is typically measured in chemical oxygen demand (COD) units. When the S/Xratio is low, cell multiplication and growth in the batch test is negligible and the kinetics measured by the test are representative of the kinetics in the activated sludge unit of interest. The S/Xratio for a batch test is determined with the following equation:

For the batch tests described in this section, the S/Xratio (on a COD basis) must be initially less than 0.5.
