
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix B to Part 63 - Sources Defined for Early Reduction Provisions
####### Aerated Reactor Test.

1.An aerated draft tube reactor may be used for the biokinetics testing (as an example see Figure 2 of appendix C). Other aerated reactor configurations may also be used. Air is bubbled through a porous frit at a rate sufficient to aerate and keep the reactor uniformly mixed. Aeration rates typically vary from 50 to 200 ml/min for a 1 liter system. A mass flow rate controller is used to carefully control the air flow rate because it is important to have an accurate measure of this rate. The dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration in the system must not fall below 2 mg/liter so that the biodegradation observed will not be DO-limited. Once the air flow rate is established, the test mixture (or compound) of interest is then injected into the reactor and the concentration of the compound(s) is monitored over time. Concentrations may be monitored in the liquid or in the headspace. A minimum of six samples shall be taken over the period of the test. However, it is necessary to collect samples until the compound concentration falls below the LOQ. If liquid samples are collected, they must be small enough such that the liquid volume in the batch reactor does not change by more than 10%.

Before conducting experiments with biomass, it is necessary to verify the equilibrium assumption. The equilibrium assumption can be verified by conducting a stripping experiment using the effluent (no biomass) from the activated sludge unit of interest. Effluent is filtered with a 0.45 um or smaller filter and placed in the draft tube reactor. Air is sparged into the system and the compound concentration in the liquid or headspace is monitored over time. This test with no biomass may provide an estimate of the Henry's law constant. If the system is at equilibrium, the Henry's law constant may be estimated with the following equation:

A plot of-ln(C/C) as a function of t will have a slope equal to GK/V. The equilibrium assumption can be verified by comparing the experimentally determined Kfor the system to literature values of the Henry's Law constant (including those listed in this appendix). If Kdoes not match the Henry's law constant, Kshall be determined from analysis of the headspace and liquid concentration in a batch system.

The concentration of a compound decreases in the bioreactor due to both biodegradation and stripping. Biodegradation processes are typically described with a Monod model. This model and a stripping expression are combined to give a mass balance for the aerated draft tube reactor):

Equation App. C-3 can be integrated to obtain the following equation:

This equation is used along with the substrate concentration versus time data to determine the best fit parameters (Qand K) to describe the biodegradation process in the aerated reactor. If the aerated reactor test is used, the following procedure is used to analyze the data. Evaluate Kfor the compound of interest with Form XI. The concentration in the vented headspace or liquid is measured as a function of time and the data is entered on Form XI. A plot is made from the data and attached to the Form XI. Kis calculated on Form XI and the results are contrasted with the expected value of Henry's law obtained from Form IX. If the comparison is satisfactory, the stripping constant is calculated from K, completing Form XI. The values of Kmay differ because the theoretical value of Kmay not be applicable to the system of interest. If the comparison of the calculated Kfrom the form and the expected value of Henry's law is unsatisfactory, Form X can alternatively be used to validate KIf the aerated reactor is demonstrated to not be at equilibrium, either modify the reactor design and/or operation, or use another type of batch test.

The compound-specific biorate constants are then measured using Form XII. The stripping constant that was determined from Form XI and a headspace correction factor of 1 are entered on Form XII. The aerated reactor biotest may then be run, measuring concentrations of each compound of interest as a function of time. If headspace concentrations are measured instead of liquid concentrations, then the corresponding liquid concentrations are calculated from the headspace measurements using the Kdetermined on Form XI and entered on Form XII.

The concentration data on Form XII may contain scatter that can adversely influence the data interpretation. It is possible to curve fit the concentration data and enter the concentrations on the fitted curve instead of the actual data. If curve fitting is used, the curve-fitting procedure must be based upon the Equation App. C-4. When curve fitting is used, it is necessary to attach a plot of the actual data and the fitted curve to Form XII.

If the stripping rate constant is relatively large when compared to the biorate at low concentrations, it may be difficult to obtain accurate evaluations of the first-order biorate constant. In these cases, either reducing the stripping rate constant by lowering the aeration rate, or increasing the biomass concentrations should be considered.

The final result of the batch testing is the measurement of a biorate that can be used to estimate the fraction biodegraded, f. The number transferred to Form III is obtained from Form XII, line 9.
