
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.

- VOC standards mixtures in high-pressure cylinder certified by the supplier (The accuracy of the certified standards has a direct bearing on the accuracy of the measurement results. Typical vendor accuracy is +/-5 percent accuracy but some VOC may only be available at lower accuracy (, acrolein at 10 percent)); and

- Purified dilution air containing less than 0.2 ppbv of the target VOC.

A.8.1 You must use certified gas standards diluted with humid air. Generate humidified air by adding distilled organic free water to purified or zero grade air. Humidification may be accomplished by quantitative addition of water to the air dilution gas stream in a heated chamber or by passing purified air through a humidifying bubbler. You must control the relative humidity in the test gas throughout the period of passive sampler exposure.

A.8.2 Prepare and condition sorbent tubes following the procedures in Method 325B Section 7.0.

A.8.3 You must verify that the exposure chamber does not leak.

A.8.4 You must complete two evaluation tests using a minimum of eight passive sampling tubes in each test with less than 5-percent depletion of test analyte by the samplers.

A.8.4.1 Perform at least one evaluation at two to five times the estimated analytical detection limit or less.

A.8.4.2 Perform second evaluation at a concentration equivalent to the middle of the analysis calibration range.

A.8.5 You must evaluate the samplers in the test chamber operating between 35 percent and 75 percent RH, and at 25 +/-5 &#xB0;C. Allow the exposure chamber to equilibrate for 6 hours before starting an evaluation.

A.8.6 The flow rate through the chamber must be &#x2264;0.5 meter per second face velocity across the sampler face.

A.8.7 Place clean, ready to use sorbent tubes into the exposure chamber for predetermined amounts of time to evaluate collection and recovery from the tubes. The exposure time depends on the concentration of volatile test material in the chamber and the detection limit required for the sorbent tube sampling application. Exposure time should match sample collection time. The sorbent tube exposure chamber time may not be less than 24 hours and should not be longer than 2 weeks.

A.8.7.1 To start the exposure, place the clean PSDs equipped with diffusion caps on the tube inlet into a retaining rack.

A.8.7.2 Place the entire retaining rack inside the exposure chamber with the diffusive sampling end of the tubes facing into the chamber flow. Seal the chamber and record the exposure start time, chamber RH, chamber temperature, PSD types and numbers, orientation of PSDs, and volatile material mixture composition (see Figure A.2).

A.8.7.3 Diluted, humidified target gas must be continuously fed into the exposure chamber during cartridge exposure. Measure the flow rate of target compound standard gas and dilution air to an accuracy of 5 percent.

A.8.7.4 Record the time, temperature, and RH at the beginning, middle, and end of the exposure time.

A.8.7.5 At the end of the exposure time, remove the PSDs from the exposure chamber. Record the exposure end time, chamber RH, and temperature.

A.9.1 Monitor and record the exposure chamber temperature and RH during PSD exposures.

A.9.2 Measure the flow rates of standards and purified humified air immediately following PSD exposures.

A.10.1 Follow the procedures described in Method 325B Section 10.0 for calibration.

A.10.2 Verify chamber concentration by direct injection into a gas chromatograph calibrated for the target compound(s) or by collection of an integrated SUMMA canister followed by analysis using a preconcentration gas chromatographic method such as EPA Compendium Method TO-15, Determination of VOCs in Air Collected in Specially-Prepared Canisters and Analyzed By GC/MS.

A.10.2.1 To use direct injection gas chromatography to verify the exposure chamber concentration, follow the procedures in Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60, Appendix A-6. The method ASTM D6420-99 (Reapproved 2010) (incorporated by reference-see ยง 63.14) is an acceptable alternative to EPA Method 18 of 40 CFR part 60).

A.10.2.2 To verify exposure chamber concentrations using SUMMA canisters, prepare clean canister(s) and measure the concentration of VOC collected in an integrated SUMMA canister over the period used for the evaluation (minimum 24 hours). Analyze the TO-15 canister sample following EPA Compendium Method TO-15.

A.10.2.3 Compare the theoretical concentration of volatile material added to the test chamber to the measured concentration to confirm the chamber operation. Theoretical concentration must agree with the measured concentration within 30 percent.

Analyze the sorbent tubes following the procedures described in Section 11.0 of Method 325B.

Keep records for the sorbent tube evaluation to include at a minimum the following information:

A.12.1 Sorbent tube description and specifications.

A.12.2 Sorbent material description and specifications.

A.12.3 Volatile analytes used in the sampler test.

A.12.4 Chamber conditions including flow rate, temperature, and relative humidity.

A.12.5 Relative standard deviation of the sampler results at the conditions tested.

A.12.6 95 percent confidence limit on the sampler overall accuracy.

A.12.7 The relative accuracy of the sorbent tube results compared to the direct chamber measurement by direct gas chromatography or SUMMA canister analysis.

A.13.1 Sorbent tube performance is acceptable if the relative accuracy of the passive sorbent sampler agrees with the active measurement method by +/-10 percent at the 95 percent confidence limit and the uptake ratio is equal to greater than 0.5 mL/min (1 ng/ppm-min).

A13.2 Data Analysis and Calculations for Method Evaluation

A.13.2.1 Calculate the theoretical concentration of VOC standards using Equation A.1.

A.13.2.3 Determine the uptake rate of the target gas being evaluated using Equation A.2.

A.13.2.4 Estimate the variance (relative standard deviation (RSD)) of the inter-sampler results at each condition tested using Equation A.3. RSD for the sampler is estimated by pooling the variance estimates from each test run.

A.13.2.4 Determine the percent relative standard deviation of the inter-sampler results using Equation A.4.

A.13.2.5 Determine the 95 percent confidence interval for the sampler results using Equation A.5. The confidence interval is determined based on the number of test runs performed to evaluate the sorbent tube and sorbent combination. For the minimum test requirement of eight samplers tested at two concentrations, the number of tests is 16 and the degrees of freedom are 15.

A.13.2.6 Determine the relative accuracy of the sorbent tube combination compared to the active sampling results using Equation A.6.

This method involves the use of ambient concentrations of gaseous compounds that post little or no pollution to the environment.

Expired calibration solutions should be disposed of as hazardous materials.

1. ISO TC 146/SC 02 N 361 Workplace atmospheres-Protocol for evaluating the performance of diffusive samplers.
