
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 63 - NATIONAL EMISSION STANDARDS FOR HAZARDOUS AIR POLLUTANTS FOR SOURCE CATEGORIES
##### Appendix A to Part 63 - Test Methods
###### e.g.,

This method is applicable to the collection and analysis of isocyanate compounds from the emissions associated with manufacturing processes. This method is not inclusive with respect to specifications (equipment and supplies) and sampling procedures essential to its performance. Some material is incorporated by reference from other EPA methods. Therefore, to obtain reliable results, persons using this method should have a thorough knowledge of at least Method 1, Method 2, Method 3, and Method 5 found in Appendices A-1, A-2, and A-3 in Part 60 of this title.

1.1 Analytes. This method is designed to determine the mass emission of isocyanates being emitted from manufacturing processes. The following is a table (Table 1-1) of the isocyanates and the manufacturing process at which the method has been evaluated:

1.2 Applicability. Method 326 is a method designed for determining compliance with National Emission Standards for Hazardous Air Pollutants (NESHAP). Method 326 may also be specified by New Source Performance Standards (NSPS), State Implementation Plans (SIPs), and operating permits that require measurement of isocyanates in stationary source emissions, to determine compliance with an applicable emission standard or limit.

1.3 Data Quality Objectives (DQO). The principal objective is to ensure the accuracy of the data at the actual emissions levels and in the actual emissions matrix encountered. To meet this objective, method performance tests are required and NIST-traceable calibration standards must be used.

2.1 Gaseous and/or aerosol isocyanates are withdrawn from an emission source at an isokinetic sampling rate and are collected in a multicomponent sampling train. The primary components of the train include a heated probe, three impingers containing derivatizing reagent in toluene, an empty impinger, an impinger containing charcoal, and an impinger containing silica gel.

2.2 The liquid impinger contents are recovered, concentrated to dryness under vacuum, brought to volume with acetonitrile (ACN) and analyzed with a high pressure liquid chromatograph (HPLC).

4.1 The greatest potential for interference comes from an impurity in the derivatizing reagent, 1-(2-pyridyl)piperazine (1,2-PP). This compound may interfere with the resolution of MI from the peak attributed to unreacted 1,2-PP.

4.2 Other interferences that could result in positive or negative bias are (1) alcohols that could compete with the 1,2-PP for reaction with an isocyanate and (2) other compounds that may co-elute with one or more of the derivatized isocyanates.

4.3 Method interferences may be caused by contaminants in solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing hardware. All these materials must be routinely shown to be free from interferences under conditions of the analysis by preparing and analyzing laboratory method (or reagent) blanks.

4.3.1 Glassware must be cleaned thoroughly before using. The glassware should be washed with laboratory detergent in hot water followed by rinsing with tap water and distilled water. The glassware may be dried by baking in a glassware oven at 400 &#xB0;C for at least one hour. After the glassware has cooled, it should be rinsed three times with methylene chloride and three times with acetonitrile. Volumetric glassware should not be heated to 400 &#xB0;C. Instead, after washing and rinsing, volumetric glassware may be rinsed with acetonitrile followed by methylene chloride and allowed to dry in air.

4.3.2 The use of high purity reagents and solvents helps to reduce interference problems in sample analysis.

5.1 Organizations performing this method are responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) regulations regarding safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of material safety data sheets should also be made available to all personnel involved in performing the method. Additional references to laboratory safety are available.

6.1 Sample Collection. A schematic of the sampling train used in this method is shown in Figure 207-1. This sampling train configuration is adapted from Method 5 procedures, and, as such, most of the required equipment is identical to that used in Method 5 determinations. The only new component required is a condenser.

6.1.1 Probe Nozzle. Borosilicate or quartz glass; constructed and calibrated according to Method 5, sections 6.1.1.1 and 10.1, and coupled to the probe liner using a Teflon union; a stainless steel nut is recommended for this union. When the stack temperature exceeds 210 &#xB0;C (410 &#xB0;F), a one-piece glass nozzle/liner assembly must be used.

6.1.2 Probe Liner. Same as Method 5, section 6.1.1.2, except metal liners shall not be used. Water-cooling of the stainless steel sheath is recommended at temperatures exceeding 500 &#xB0;C (932 &#xB0;F). Teflon may be used in limited applications where the minimum stack temperature exceeds 120 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F) but never exceeds the temperature where Teflon is estimated to become unstable [approximately 210 &#xB0;C (410 &#xB0;F)].

6.1.3 Pitot Tube, Differential Pressure Gauge, Filter Heating System, Metering System, Barometer, Gas Density Determination Equipment. Same as Method 5, sections 6.1.1.3, 6.1.1.4, 6.1.1.6, 6.1.1.9, 6.1.2, and 6.1.3.

6.1.4 Impinger Train. Glass impingers are connected in series with leak-free ground-glass joints following immediately after the heated probe. The first impinger shall be of the Greenburg-Smith design with the standard tip. The remaining five impingers shall be of the modified Greenburg-Smith design, modified by replacing the tip with a 1.3-cm (-in.) I.D. glass tube extending about 1.3 cm (in.) from the bottom of the outer cylinder. A water-jacketed condenser is placed between the outlet of the first impinger and the inlet to the second impinger to reduce the evaporation of toluene from the first impinger.

6.1.5 Moisture Measurement. For the purpose of calculating volumetric flow rate and isokinetic sampling, you must also collect either Method 4 in Appendix A-3 to this part or other moisture measurement methods approved by the Administrator concurrent with each Method 326 test run.

6.2 Sample Recovery

6.2.1 Probe and Nozzle Brushes; Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) bristle brushes with stainless steel wire or PTFE handles are required. The probe brush shall have extensions constructed of stainless steel, PTFE, or inert material at least as long as the probe. The brushes shall be properly sized and shaped to brush out the probe liner and the probe nozzle.

6.2.2 Wash Bottles. Three. PTFE or glass wash bottles are recommended; polyethylene wash bottles must not be used because organic contaminants may be extracted by exposure to organic solvents used for sample recovery.

6.2.3 Glass Sample Storage Containers. Chemically resistant, borosilicate amber glass bottles, 500-mL or 1,000-mL. Bottles should be tinted to prevent the action of light on the sample. Screw-cap liners shall be either PTFE or constructed to be leak-free and resistant to chemical attack by organic recovery solvents. Narrow-mouth glass bottles have been found to leak less frequently.

6.2.4 Graduated Cylinder. To measure impinger contents to the nearest 1 ml or 1 g. Graduated cylinders shall have subdivisions not >2 mL.

6.2.5 Plastic Storage Containers. Screw-cap polypropylene or polyethylene containers to store silica gel and charcoal.

6.2.6 Funnel and Rubber Policeman. To aid in transfer of silica gel or charcoal to container (not necessary if silica gel is weighed in field).

6.2.7 Funnels. Glass, to aid in sample recovery.

6.3 Sample Preparation and Analysis.

The following items are required for sample analysis.

6.3.1 Rotary Evaporator. Buchii Model EL-130 or equivalent.

6.3.2 1000 ml Round Bottom Flask for use with a rotary evaporator.

6.3.3 Separatory Funnel. 500-ml or larger, with PTFE stopcock.

6.3.4 Glass Funnel. Short-stemmed or equivalent.

6.3.5 Vials. 15-ml capacity with PTFE lined caps.

6.3.6 Class A Volumetric Flasks. 10-ml for bringing samples to volume after concentration.

6.3.7 Filter Paper. Qualitative grade or equivalent.

6.3.8 Buchner Funnel. Porcelain with 100 mm ID or equivalent.

6.3.9 Erlenmeyer Flask. 500-ml with side arm and vacuum source.

6.3.10 HPLC with at least a binary pumping system capable of a programmed gradient.

6.3.11 Column Systems Column systems used to measure isocyanates must be capable of achieving separation of the target compounds from the nearest eluting compound or interferents with no more than 10 percent peak overlap.

6.3.12 Detector. UV detector at 254 nm. A fluorescence detector (FD) with an excitation of 240 nm and an emission at 370 nm may be also used to allow the detection of low concentrations of isocyanates in samples.

6.3.13 Data system for measuring peak areas and retention times.

7.1 Sample Collection Reagents.

7.1.1 Charcoal. Activated, 6-16 mesh. Used to absorb toluene vapors and prevent them from entering the metering device. Use once with each train and discard.

7.1.2 Silica Gel and Crushed Ice. Same as Method 5, sections 7.1.2 and 7.1.4 respectively

7.1.3 Impinger Solution. The impinger solution is prepared by mixing a known amount of 1-(2-pyridyl) piperazine (purity 99.5+%) in toluene (HPLC grade or equivalent). The actual concentration of 1,2-PP should be approximately four times the amount needed to ensure that the capacity of the derivatizing solution is not exceeded. This amount shall be calculated from the stoichiometric relationship between 1,2-PP and the isocyanate of interest and preliminary information about the concentration of the isocyanate in the stack emissions. A concentration of 130 µg/ml of 1,2-PP in toluene can be used as a reference point. This solution shall be prepared, stored in a refrigerated area away from light, and used within ten days of preparation.

7.2 Sample Recovery Reagents.

7.2.1 Toluene. HPLC grade is required for sample recovery and cleanup (seeto 7.2.2 below).

7.2.2 Acetonitrile. HPLC grade is required for sample recovery and cleanup.Organic solvents stored in metal containers may have a high residue blank and should not be used. Sometimes suppliers transfer solvents from metal to glass bottles; thus blanks shall be run before field use and only solvents with a low blank value should be used.

7.3 Analysis Reagents. Reagent grade chemicals should be used in all tests. All reagents shall conform to the specifications of the Committee on Analytical Reagents of the American Chemical Society, where such specifications are available.

7.3.1 Toluene, CHCH. HPLC Grade or equivalent.

7.3.2 Acetonitrile, CHCN (ACN). HPLC Grade or equivalent.

7.3.3 Methylene Chloride, CHCl. HPLC Grade or equivalent.

7.3.4 Hexane, CH. HPLC Grade or equivalent.

7.3.5 Water, HO. HPLC Grade or equivalent.

7.3.6 Ammonium Acetate, CHCONH.

7.3.7 Acetic Acid (glacial), CHCOH.

7.3.8 1-(2-Pyridyl)piperazine, (1,2-PP), ≥99.5% or equivalent.

7.3.9 Absorption Solution. Prepare a solution of 1-(2-pyridyl)piperazine in toluene at a concentration of 40 mg/300 ml. This solution is used for method blanks and method spikes.

7.3.10 Ammonium Acetate Buffer Solution (AAB). Prepare a solution of ammonium acetate in water at a concentration of 0.1 M by transferring 7.705 g of ammonium acetate to a 1,000 ml volumetric flask and diluting to volume with HPLC Grade water. Adjust pH to 6.2 with glacial acetic acid.

8.1 Sampling

8.1.1 Preliminary Field Determinations. Same as Method 5, section 8.2.

8.1.2 Preparation of Sampling Train. Follow the general procedure given in Method 5, section 8.3.1, except for the following variations: Place 300 ml of the impinger absorbing solution in the first impinger and 200 ml each in the second and third impingers. The fourth impinger shall remain empty. The fifth and sixth impingers shall have 400 g of charcoal and 200-300 g of silica gel, respectively. Alternatively, the charcoal and silica gel may be combined in the fifth impinger. Set-up the train as in Figure 326-1. During assembly, do not use any silicone grease on ground-glass joints.

8.1.3 Leak-Check Procedures. Follow the leak-check procedures given in Method 5, sections 8.4.2 (Pretest Leak-Check), 8.4.3 (Leak-Checks During the Sample Run), and 8.4.4 (Post-Test Leak-Check), with the exception that the pre-test leak-check is mandatory

8.1.4 Sampling Train Operation. Follow the general procedures given in Method 5, section 8.5. Turn on the condenser coil coolant recirculating pump and monitor the gas entry temperature. Ensure proper gas entry temperature before proceeding and again before any sampling is initiated. It is important that the gas entry temperature not exceed 50 &#xB0;C (122 &#xB0;F), thus reducing the loss of toluene from the first impinger. For each run, record the data required on a data sheet such as the one shown in Method 5, Figure 5-3.

8.2 Sample Recovery. Allow the probe to cool. When the probe can be handled safely, wipe off all external particulate matter near the tip of the probe nozzle and place a cap over the tip to prevent losing or gaining particulate matter. Do not cap the probe tip tightly while the sampling train is cooling down because this will create a vacuum in the train. Before moving the sample train to the cleanup site, remove the probe from the sample train and cap the opening to the probe, being careful not to lose any condensate that might be present. Cap the impingers and transfer the probe and the impinger/condenser assembly to the cleanup area. This area should be clean and protected from the weather to reduce sample contamination or loss. Inspect the train prior to and during disassembly and record any abnormal conditions. It is not necessary to measure the volume of the impingers for the purpose of moisture determination as the method is not validated for moisture determination. Treat samples as follows:

8.2.1 Container No. 1, Probe and Impinger Numbers 1 and 2. Rinse and brush the probe/nozzle first with toluene twice and then twice again with acetonitrile and place the wash into a glass container labeled with the test run identification and "Container No. 1." When using these solvents ensure that proper ventilation is available. Quantitatively transfer the liquid from the first two impingers and the condenser into Container No. 1. Rinse the impingers and all connecting glassware twice with toluene and then twice again with acetonitrile and transfer the rinses into Container No. 1. After all components have been collected in the container, seal the container, and mark the liquid level on the bottle.

8.2.2 Container No. 2, Impingers 3 and 4. Quantitatively transfer the liquid from each impinger into a glass container labeled with the test run identification and "Container No. 2." Rinse each impinger and all connecting glassware twice with toluene and twice again with acetonitrile and transfer the rinses into Container No. 2. After all components have been collected in the container, seal the container, and mark the liquid level on the bottle.

8.2.3 Container No. 3, Reagent Blank. Save a portion of both washing solutions (toluene/acetonitrile) used for the cleanup as a blank. Transfer 200 ml of each solution directly from the wash bottle being used and combine in a glass sample container with the test identification and "Container No. 3." Seal the container, and mark the liquid level on the bottle and add the proper label.

8.2.4 Field Train Proof Blanks. To demonstrate the cleanliness of sampling train glassware, you must prepare a full sampling train to serve as a field train proof blank just as it would be prepared for sampling. At a minimum, one complete sampling train will be assembled in the field staging area, taken to the sampling area, and leak-checked. The probe of the blank train shall be heated during and the train will be recovered as if it were an actual test sample. No gaseous sample will be passed through the sampling train. Field blanks are recovered in the same manner as described in sections 8.2.1 and 8.2.2 and must be submitted with the field samples collected at each sampling site.

8.2.5 Field Train Spike. To demonstrate the effectiveness of the sampling train, field handling, and recovery procedures you must prepare a full sampling train to serve as a field train spike just as it would be prepared for sampling. The field spike is performed in the same manner as the field train proof blank with the additional step of adding the Field Spike Solution to the first impinger after the initial leak check. The train will be recovered as if it were an actual test sample. No gaseous sample will be passed through the sampling train. Field train spikes are recovered in the same manner as described in sections 8.2.1 and 8.2.2 and must be submitted with the samples collected for each test program.

8.3 Sample Transport Procedures. Containers must remain in an upright position at all times during shipment. Samples must also be stored at <4 &#xB0;C between the time of sampling and concentration. Each sample should be extracted and concentrated within 30 days after collection and analyzed within 30 days after extraction. The extracted sample must be stored at 4 &#xB0;C.

8.4 Sample Custody. Proper procedures and documentation for sample chain of custody are critical to ensuring data integrity. The chain of custody procedures in ASTM D4840-99 (Reapproved 2018)"Standard Guide for Sampling Chain-of-Custody Procedures" (incorporated by reference, see § 63.14) shall be followed for all samples (including field samples and blanks).

9.1 Sampling. Sampling Operations. The sampling quality control procedures and acceptance criteria are listed in Table 326-2 below; see also section 9.0 of Method 5.

9.2 Analysis. The analytical quality control procedures required for this method includes the analysis of the field train proof blank, field train spike, and reagent and method blanks. Analytical quality control procedures and acceptance criteria are listed in Table 326-3 below.

9.2.1 Check for Breakthrough. Recover and determine the isocyanate(s) concentration of the last two impingers separately from the first two impingers.

9.2.2 Field Train Proof Blank. Field blanks must be submitted with the samples collected at each sampling site.

9.2.3 Reagent Blank and Field Train Spike. At least one reagent blank and a field train spike must be submitted with the samples collected for each test program.

9.2.4 Determination of Method Detection Limit. Based on your instrument's sensitivity and linearity, determine the calibration concentrations or masses that make up a representative low level calibration range. The MDL must be determined at least annually for the analytical system using an MDL study such as that found in section 15.0 to Method 301 of appendix A to part 63 of this chapter.

10.1 Probe Nozzle, Pitot Tube Assembly, Dry Gas Metering System, Probe Heater, Temperature Sensors, Leak-Check of Metering System, and Barometer. Same as Method 5, sections 10.1, 10.2, 10.3, 10.4, 10.5, 8.4.1, and 10.6, respectively.

10.2 High Performance Liquid Chromatograph. Establish the retention times for the isocyanates of interest; retention times will depend on the chromatographic conditions. The retention times provided in Table 10-1 are provided as a guide to relative retention times when using a C18, 250 mm x 4.6 mm ID, 5µm particle size column, a 2 ml/min flow rate of a 1:9 to 6:4 Acetonitrile/Ammonium Acetate Buffer, a 50 µl sample loop, and a UV detector set at 254 nm.

10.3 Preparation of Isocyanate Derivatives.

10.3.1 HDI, TDI, MDI. Dissolve 500 mg of each isocyanate in individual 100 ml aliquots of methylene chloride (MeCl), except MDI which requires 250 ml of MeCl. Transfer a 5-ml aliquot of 1,2-PP (see section 7.3.8) to each solution, stir and allow to stand overnight at room temperature. Transfer 150 ml aliquots of hexane to each solution to precipitate the isocyanate-urea derivative. Using a Buchner funnel, vacuum filter the solid-isocyanate-urea derivative and rinse with 50 ml of hexane. Dissolve the precipitate in a minimum aliquot of MeCl. Repeat the hexane precipitation and filtration twice. After the third filtration, dry the crystals at 50 &#xB0;C and transfer to bottles for storage. The crystals are stable for at least 21 months when stored at room temperature in a closed container.

10.3.2 MI. Prepare a 200 µg/ml stock solution of methyl isocyanate-urea, transfer 60 mg of 1,2-PP to a 100-ml volumetric flask containing 50 ml of MeCl. Carefully transfer 20 mg of methyl isocyanate to the volumetric flask and shake for 2 minutes. Dilute the solution to volume with MeCland transfer to a bottle for storage. Methyl isocyanate does not produce a solid derivative and standards must be prepared from this stock solution.

10.4 Preparation of calibration standards. Prepare a 100 µg/ml stock solution of the isocyanates of interest from the individual isocyanate-urea derivative as prepared in sections 10.3.1 and 10.3.2. This is accomplished by dissolving 1 mg of each isocyanate-urea derivative in 10 ml of Acetonitrile. Calibration standards are prepared from this stock solution by making appropriate dilutions of aliquots of the stock into Acetonitrile.

10.5 Preparation of Method Blanks. Prepare a method blank for each test program (up to twenty samples) by transferring 300 ml of the absorption solution to a 1,000-ml round bottom flask and concentrate as outlined in section 11.2.

10.6 Preparation of Field Spike Solution. Prepare a field spike solution for every test program in the same manner as calibration standards (see Section 10.4). The mass of the target isocyanate in the volume of the spike solution for the field spike train shall be equivalent to that estimated to be captured from the source concentration for each compound; alternatively, you may also prepare a solution that represents half the applicable standard.

10.7 HPLC Calibrations. See Section 11.1.
