
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 64 - COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE MONITORING
##### ยง 64.2 Applicability.
###### Exemptions,Exempt emission limitations or standards.

(b)-(1)The requirements of this part shall not apply to any of the following emission limitations or standards:

(i) Emission limitations or standards proposed by the Administrator after November 15, 1990 pursuant to section 111 or 112 of the Act.

(ii) Stratospheric ozone protection requirements under title VI of the Act.

(iii) Acid Rain Program requirements pursuant to sections 404, 405, 406, 407(a), 407(b), or 410 of the Act.

(iv) Emission limitations or standards or other applicable requirements that apply solely under an emissions trading program approved or promulgated by the Administrator under the Act that allows for trading emissions within a source or between sources.

(v) An emissions cap that meets the requirements specified in ยง 70.4(b)(12) or ยง 71.6(a)(13)(iii) of this chapter.

(vi) Emission limitations or standards for which a part 70 or 71 permit specifies a continuous compliance determination method, as defined in ยง 64.1. The exemption provided in this paragraph (b)(1)(vi) shall not apply if the applicable compliance method includes an assumed control device emission reduction factor that could be affected by the actual operation and maintenance of the control device (such as a surface coating line controlled by an incinerator for which continuous compliance is determined by calculating emissions on the basis of coating records and an assumed control device efficiency factor based on an initial performance test; in this example, this part would apply to the control device and capture system, but not to the remaining elements of the coating line, such as raw material usage).
