
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 64 - COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE MONITORING
##### ยง 64.3 Monitoring design criteria.
###### Performance criteria.

(b)The owner or operator shall design the monitoring to meet the following performance criteria:

(1) Specifications that provide for obtaining data that are representative of the emissions or parameters being monitored (such as detector location and installation specifications, if applicable).

(2) For new or modified monitoring equipment, verification procedures to confirm the operational status of the monitoring prior to the date by which the owner or operator must conduct monitoring under this part as specified in ยง 64.7(a). The owner or operator shall consider the monitoring equipment manufacturer's requirements or recommendations for installation, calibration, and start-up operation.

(3) Quality assurance and control practices that are adequate to ensure the continuing validity of the data. The owner or operator shall consider manufacturer recommendations or requirements applicable to the monitoring in developing appropriate quality assurance and control practices.

(4) Specifications for the frequency of conducting the monitoring, the data collection procedures that will be used (e.g., computerized data acquisition and handling, alarm sensor, or manual log entries based on gauge readings), and, if applicable, the period over which discrete data points will be averaged for the purpose of determining whether an excursion or exceedance has occurred.

(i) At a minimum, the owner or operator shall design the period over which data are obtained and, if applicable, averaged consistent with the characteristics and typical variability of the pollutant-specific emissions unit (including the control device and associated capture system). Such intervals shall be commensurate with the time period over which a change in control device performance that would require actions by owner or operator to return operations within normal ranges or designated conditions is likely to be observed.
