
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 64 - COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE MONITORING
##### ยง 64.8 Quality improvement plan (QIP) requirements.

(a) Based on the results of a determination made under ยง 64.7(d)(2), the Administrator or the permitting authority may require the owner or operator to develop and implement a QIP. Consistent with ยง 64.6(c)(3), the part 70 or 71 permit may specify an appropriate threshold, such as an accumulation of exceedances or excursions exceeding 5 percent duration of a pollutant-specific emissions unit's operating time for a reporting period, for requiring the implementation of a QIP. The threshold may be set at a higher or lower percent or may rely on other criteria for purposes of indicating whether a pollutant-specific emissions unit is being maintained and operated in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices.

(b) Elements of a QIP:

(1) The owner or operator shall maintain a written QIP, if required, and have it available for inspection.

(2) The plan initially shall include procedures for evaluating the control performance problems and, based on the results of the evaluation procedures, the owner or operator shall modify the plan to include procedures for conducting one or more of the following actions, as appropriate:

(i) Improved preventive maintenance practices.

(ii) Process operation changes.

(iii) Appropriate improvements to control methods.

(iv) Other steps appropriate to correct control performance.

(v) More frequent or improved monitoring (only in conjunction with one or more steps under paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section).

(c) If a QIP is required, the owner or operator shall develop and implement a QIP as expeditiously as practicable and shall notify the permitting authority if the period for completing the improvements contained in the QIP exceeds 180 days from the date on which the need to implement the QIP was determined.

(d) Following implementation of a QIP, upon any subsequent determination pursuant to ยง 64.7(d)(2) the Administrator or the permitting authority may require that an owner or operator make reasonable changes to the QIP if the QIP is found to have:

(1) Failed to address the cause of the control device performance problems; or

(2) Failed to provide adequate procedures for correcting control device performance problems as expeditiously as practicable in accordance with good air pollution control practices for minimizing emissions.

(e) Implementation of a QIP shall not excuse the owner or operator of a source from compliance with any existing emission limitation or standard, or any existing monitoring, testing, reporting or recordkeeping requirement that may apply under federal, state, or local law, or any other applicable requirements under the Act.
