
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.1 Applicability.

(a) The provisions of this subpart apply to owners or operators expressly referenced to this part from a subpart of 40 CFR part 60, 61, or 63 for which the owner or operator has chosen to comply with the provisions of this part as an alternative to the provisions in the referencing subpart as specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) Owners or operators may choose to comply with this part for any regulated source subject to a referencing subpart.

(c) Compliance with this part instead of the referencing subparts does not alter the applicability of the referencing subparts. This part applies to only the equipment, process vents, storage vessels, or transfer operations to which the referencing subparts apply. This part does not extend applicability to equipment, process vents, storage vessels, or transfer operations that are not regulated by the referencing subpart.

(d) The provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A; 40 CFR part 61, subpart A; and 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, that are listed in table 1 of this subpart still apply to owners or operators of regulated sources expressly referenced to this part. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in table 1 of this subpart in the column corresponding to the referencing subpart. All provisions of 40 CFR part 60, subpart A; 40 CFR part 61, subpart A; and 40 CFR part 63, subpart A, not expressly referenced in table 1 of this subpart do not apply, and the provisions of this part apply instead, except that provisions which were required to be met prior to implementation of this part 65 still apply.

(e) The provisions of the referencing subparts that are listed in table 2 of this subpart still apply to owners or operators of regulated sources expressly referenced to this part. The owner or operator shall comply with the provisions in table 2 of this subpart in the row corresponding to the referencing subpart. All provisions of the referencing subparts not expressly referenced in table 2 to this subpart do not apply and the provisions of this part apply instead, except that provisions which were required to be met prior to implementation of this part 65 still apply.
