
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.3 Compliance with standards and operation and maintenance requirements.
####### Requirements.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the emission standards and established parameter ranges of this part shall apply at all times except during periods of startup, shutdown (as defined in ยง 65.2), malfunction, or nonoperation of the regulated source (or specific portion thereof) resulting in cessation of the emissions to which this part applies. However, if a startup, shutdown, malfunction, or period of nonoperation of one portion of a regulated source does not affect the ability of a particular emission point to comply with the specific provisions to which it is subject, then that emission point shall still be required to comply with the applicable provisions of this part during the startup, shutdown, malfunction, or period of nonoperation. For example, if there is an over pressure in the reactor area, a storage vessel in a chemical manufacturing process unit would still be required to be controlled in accordance with subpart C of this part. Similarly, the degassing of a storage vessel would not affect the ability of a process vent to meet the requirements of subpart D or G of this part.

(2) Sections 65.106 through 65.118 shall apply at all times except during periods of startup or shutdown (as defined in ยง 65.2), malfunction, process unit shutdown (as defined in ยง 65.2), or nonoperation of the regulated source (or specific portion thereof) in which the lines are drained and depressurized resulting in cessation of the emissions to which subpart F of this part applies.

(3) During startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions when the emission standards of this part do not apply pursuant to paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section, the owner or operator shall implement, to the extent reasonably available, measures to prevent or minimize emissions in excess of those that would have occurred if there were no startup, shutdown, or malfunction and the owner or operator complied with the relevant provisions of this part. The measures to be taken may include, but are not limited to, air pollution control technologies, recovery technologies, work practices, pollution prevention, monitoring, and/or changes in the manner of operation of the regulated source. Backup control devices are not required but may be used if available. This paragraph (a)(3) does not apply to Group 2A or Group 2B process vents.

(4) Malfunctions shall be corrected as soon as practical after their occurrence. This paragraph (a)(4) does not apply to Group 2A or Group 2B process vents.

(5) Operation and maintenance requirements established pursuant to section 112 of the Act are enforceable independent of emissions limitations or other requirements in relevant standards.
