
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.3 Compliance with standards and operation and maintenance requirements.
####### Compliance times.

(d)All terms that define a period of time for completion of required tasks (for example, weekly, monthly, quarterly, annually) unless specified otherwise in the section or paragraph that imposes the requirement refer to the standard calendar periods.

(1) Notwithstanding time periods specified for completion of required tasks, time periods may be changed by mutual agreement between the owner or operator and the Administrator as specified in ยง 65.5(h)(3) (for example, a period could begin on the compliance date or another date, rather than on the first day of the standard calendar period). For each time period that is changed by agreement, the revised period applies until it is changed. A new request is not necessary for each recurring period.

(2) When the period specified for compliance is a standard calendar period, if the initial compliance date occurs after the beginning of the period, compliance shall be required according to the schedule specified in the following paragraphs, as appropriate:

(i) Compliance shall be required before the end of the standard calendar period within which the compliance deadline occurs if there remain at least 3 days for tasks that must be performed weekly, at least 2 weeks for tasks that must be performed monthly, at least 1 month for tasks that must be performed each quarter, or at least 3 months for tasks that must be performed annually; or

(ii) In all other cases, compliance shall be required before the end of the first full standard calendar period after the period within which the initial compliance deadline occurs.

(3) In all instances where a provision requires completion of a task during each of multiple successive periods, an owner or operator may perform the required task at any time during the specified period provided the task is conducted at a reasonable interval after completion of the task during the previous period.
