
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 65.5 Reporting requirements.
####### Notification of delay.

(4)If the Administrator is unable to meet a specified deadline, the owner or operator will be notified of any significant delay and informed of the amended schedule.

(i) Unless already submitted in a previous report, an owner or operator shall report in a title V permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority, the information listed in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section. This information shall be submitted to the Administrator if the regulated source is not a title V source.

(1) A list designating each emission point complying with subparts C through G of this part and whether each process vent is Group 1, Group 2A, or Group 2B.

(2) The control technology or method of compliance that will be applied to each emission point.

(3) A statement that the compliance demonstration, monitoring, inspection, recordkeeping, and reporting provisions in subparts C through G of this part that are applicable to each emission point will be implemented beginning on the date of compliance as specified in the referencing subpart.

(4) The monitoring information in § 65.162(e) if, for any emission point, the owner or operator of a source seeks to comply through use of a control technique other than those for which monitoring parameters are specified in §§ 65.148 through 65.154.

(5) Any requests for alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions, as specified in § 65.162(d).
