
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.6 Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan and procedures.
####### Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan,Description and purpose of plan.

(b)-(1)The owner or operator of a regulated source shall develop a written startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan that describes, in detail, procedures for operating and maintaining the regulated source during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction and a program of corrective action for malfunctioning process and air pollution control equipment used to comply with the relevant standard. The plan shall also address routine or otherwise predictable CPMS malfunctions. This plan shall be developed by the owner or operator by the regulated source's implementation date as specified in ยง 65.1(f), or for sources referenced from 40 CFR part 63, subpart F, by the compliance date specified in that subpart. The requirement to develop this plan shall be incorporated into the source's title V permit. This requirement is optional for equipment that must comply with subpart F of this part. It is not optional for equipment equipped with a closed vent system and control device subject to subpart G of this part. The purposes of the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan are described in the following:

(i) To ensure that owners or operators are prepared to correct malfunctions as soon as practical after their occurrence in order to minimize excess emissions of regulated material (excess emissions are defined in ยง 65.3(a)(4)); and

(ii) To reduce the reporting burden associated with periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction (including corrective action taken to restore malfunctioning process and air pollution control equipment to its normal or usual manner of operation).
