
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.6 Startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan and procedures.
####### Periodic startup, shutdown, and malfunction reports.

(c)During the reporting period, reports shall only be required for startup, shutdown, and malfunction during which excess emissions as defined in ยง 65.3(a)(4) occur. A startup, shutdown, and malfunction report can be submitted as part of a periodic report required under ยง 65.5(e), or on a more frequent basis if specified otherwise in a relevant standard or as established otherwise by the permitting authority in the source's title V permit. The startup, shutdown, and malfunction report shall be delivered or postmarked by the 30th day following the end of each calendar half (or other calendar reporting period, as appropriate), unless the information is submitted with the periodic report. The report shall include the following information, as appropriate:

(1) The name, title, and signature of the owner or operator or other responsible official certifying its accuracy.

(2) The number of startup, shutdown, malfunction events and the total duration of all periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction for the reporting period.

(3) If actions taken by an owner or operator during a startup, shutdown, and malfunction of a regulated source, or of a control device or monitoring system required for compliance (including actions taken to correct a malfunction) are consistent with the procedures specified in the source's startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, then the owner or operator shall state such information in a startup, shutdown, and malfunction report, and describe the actions taken. Such description can take the form of a checklist; only one checklist is necessary if actions taken are the same for multiple events during the reporting period.

(4) If at any time an action taken by an owner or operator, during a startup, shutdown, or malfunction (including actions taken to correct a malfunction) during which excess emissions occur, as defined in ยง 65.3(a)(4), is not consistent with the procedures specified in the regulated source's startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, the owner or operator shall report the actions taken for that event as part of the periodic report. The report shall explain the circumstances of the event, the reasons for not following the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan, and whether any excess emissions and/or parameter monitoring exceedances are believed to have occurred.
