
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.7 Monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting waivers and alternatives, and alternative work practice for equipment leaks.
####### Requests for approval of alternative monitoring or recordkeeping.

(b)An owner or operator may submit a written request for approval to use alternatives to the monitoring or recordkeeping provisions of this part. For process vents and transfer racks, except low-throughput transfer racks, the provisions in paragraph (c) of this section shall govern the review and approval of requests. In addition, the application shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for an alternative monitoring or recordkeeping method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the regulated source using the required method. For storage vessels and low throughput transfer racks, owners and operators shall comply with the requirements of ยง 65.145(b) for preparing and submitting a design evaluation. For equipment leaks, owners and operators shall comply with the recordkeeping requirements of ยง 65.163(d). Owners and operators are also provided the option of complying with an alternative work practice for monitoring leaking equipment in ยง 65.7 (e), (f), and (g) rather than monitoring equipment with a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor.
