
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 65.7 Monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting waivers and alternatives, and alternative work practice for equipment leaks.
####### Alternative work practice for monitoring equipment for leaks.

(e)This section contains requirements for an alternative work practice used to identify leaking equipment. This alternative work practice is placed here for administrative convenience and is available to all subparts in 40 CFR parts 60, 61, 63, and 65 that require monitoring of equipment with a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor. Paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section apply to all equipment for which the applicable subpart requires monitoring with a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor, except for closed vent systems, equipment designated as leakless, and equipment identified in the applicable subpart as having no detectable emissions, as indicated by an instrument reading of less than 500 ppm above background. An owner or operator may use an optical gas imaging instrument instead of a 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, Method 21 monitor. Requirements in the existing subparts that are specific to the Method 21 instrument do not apply under this section. All other requirements in the applicable subpart that are not addressed in paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section continue to apply. For example, equipment specification requirements, and non-Method 21 instrument recordkeeping and reporting requirements in the applicable subpart continue to apply. The terms defined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section have meanings that are specific to the alternative work practice standard in paragraphs (e), (f), and (g) of this section.
