
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### § 65.13 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the corresponding sections noted. These incorporations by reference were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they exist on the date of the approval, and notice of any change in these materials will be published in theThe materials are available for purchase at the corresponding addresses noted in paragraph (b) of this section, and all are available for inspection or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:; at the Air and Radiation Docket and Information Center, U.S. EPA, 401 M Street, SW., Washington, DC; and at the EPA Library (MD-35), U.S. EPA, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.

(b) The materials listed in this paragraph (b) are available for purchase from at least one of the following addresses: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103; or University Microfilms International, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106.

(1) ASTM D1946-77, Standard Method for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography, IBR approved December 14, 2000 for §§ 65.64(e)(2) and 65.147(a)(4)(i) and (b)(3)(ii).

(2) ASTM D2382-76, Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter (High-Precision Method). IBR approved December 14, 2000 for §§ 65.64(e)(1) and 65.147(b)(3)(ii).
