
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart C - Storage Vessels
###### ยง 65.44 External floating roof (EFR).
####### i.e.,

(3) Except for automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, roof drains, and leg sleeves, each opening shall be maintained in a closed position (no visible gap) at all times except when the device is in actual use.

(4) Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be bolted or fastened when they are closed.

(5) Automatic bleeder vents are to be set to be closed at all times when the roof is floating except when the roof is being floated off or is being landed on the roof leg supports.

(6) Rim space vents are to be set to open only when the roof is being floated off the roof leg supports or when the pressure beneath the rim seal exceeds the manufacturer's recommended setting.

(7) The cap on the end of each unslotted guide pole shall be closed at all times except when gauging the stored liquid level or taking samples of the stored liquid.

(8) The cover on each gauge hatch/sample well shall be closed at all times except when the hatch or well must be open for access.

(9) Except during the inspections required by paragraph (c) of this section, both the primary seal and the secondary seal shall completely cover the annular space between the external floating roof and the wall of the storage vessel in a continuous fashion.
