
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart C - Storage Vessels
###### ยง 65.43 Fixed roof with an internal floating roof (IFR).
####### IFR design requirements.

(a)The owner or operator who elects to control storage vessel regulated material emissions by using a fixed roof and an internal floating roof shall comply with the design requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) The internal floating roof shall be designed to float on the stored liquid surface except when the floating roof must be supported by the leg supports.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the internal floating roof shall be equipped with a closure device between the wall of the storage vessel and the floating roof edge and shall consist of one of the following devices:

(i) A liquid-mounted seal.

(ii) A metallic shoe seal.

(iii) Two continuous seals mounted one above the other. The lower seal may be vapor-mounted.

(3) If the internal floating roof is equipped with a vapor-mounted seal as of December 31, 1992, paragraph (a)(2) of this section does not apply until the next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed, or by April 22, 2004, whichever occurs first.

(4) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4)(viii) of this section, each internal floating roof shall meet the following specifications:

(i) Each opening in a noncontact internal floating roof except for automatic bleeder vents (vacuum breaker vents) and rim space vents is to provide a projection below the stored liquid surface.

(ii) Except for leg sleeves, automatic bleeder vents, rim space vents, column wells, ladder wells, sample wells, and stub drains, each opening shall be equipped with a gasketed cover or gasketed lid.

(iii) Each penetration of the internal floating roof shall be a sample well. Each sample well shall have a slit fabric cover that covers at least 90 percent of the opening.

(iv) Each automatic bleeder vent and rim space vent shall be gasketed.

(v) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a ladder shall have a gasketed sliding cover.

(vi) Each penetration of the internal floating roof that allows for passage of a column supporting the fixed roof shall have a flexible fabric sleeve seal or a gasketed sliding cover.

(vii) Covers on each access hatch and each gauge float well shall be designed to be bolted or fastened when they are closed.

(viii) If the internal floating roof does not meet any one of the specifications listed in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (vii) of this section as of December 31, 1992, the requirement for meeting those specifications does not apply until the next time the storage vessel is emptied and degassed, or by April 22, 2004, whichever occurs first.
