
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart C - Storage Vessels
###### § 65.44 External floating roof (EFR).
####### EFR inspection requirements.

(c)To demonstrate compliance for an external floating roof vessel, the owner or operator shall use the procedures in paragraphs (c)(4) through (9) of this section for seal gaps according to the frequency specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section and meet the requirements of paragraph (c)(10) of this section.

(1) Measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal shall be performed no less frequently than once every 5 years and at the times specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the EFR seal gap measurements as specified in § 65.47(c)(2).

(i) During the hydrostatic testing of the vessel, by initial startup, or within 90 days of the initial fill with regulated material.

(ii) For an external floating roof vessel equipped with a liquid-mounted or metallic shoe primary seal and without a secondary seal as provided for in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal shall be performed at least once per year until a secondary seal is installed. When a secondary seal is installed above the primary seal, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and both the primary and secondary seals shall be performed within 90 calendar days of installation of the secondary seal and according to the frequency specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section thereafter.

(2) Measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall be performed no less frequently than once per year and within 90 days of the initial fill with regulated material, within 90 days of installation of the secondary seal, or by initial startup. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the EFR seal gap measurements as specified in § 65.47(c)(2).

(3) If any storage vessel ceases to store regulated material for a period of 1 year or more, measurements of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal, and gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal shall be performed within 90 days of the vessel being refilled with regulated material. The owner or operator shall maintain records of the EFR seal gap measurements as specified in § 65.47(c)(2).

(4) If the tank contains regulated material, all primary seal inspections or gap measurements that require the removal or dislodging of the secondary seal shall be accomplished as soon as possible, and the secondary seal shall be replaced as soon as possible.

(5) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator 30 days before any EFR seal gap measurement as specified in § 65.48(c)(2).

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, the owner or operator shall determine gap widths and gap areas in the primary and secondary seals (seal gaps) individually by the following procedures:

(i) Seal gaps, if any, shall be measured at one or more floating roof levels when the roof is not resting on the roof leg supports.

(ii) Seal gaps, if any, shall be measured around the entire circumference of the vessel in each place where a 0.32 centimeter (inch) diameter uniform probe passes freely (without forcing or binding against the seal) between the seal and the wall of the storage vessel. The circumferential distance of each such location shall also be measured.

(iii) The total surface area of each gap described in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section shall be determined by using probes of various widths to measure accurately the actual distance from the vessel wall to the seal and multiplying each such width by its respective circumferential distance.

(7) The owner or operator shall add the gap surface area of each gap location for the primary seal and divide the sum by the nominal diameter of the vessel. The owner or operator shall include the calculations in the record of the seal gap measurement as specified in § 65.47(c)(2). For metallic shoe primary seals or liquid-mounted primary seals, the accumulated area of gaps between the vessel wall and the primary seal shall not exceed 212 square centimeters per meter of vessel diameter (10.0 square inches per foot of vessel diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 3.81 centimeters (1.50 inches).

(8) The owner or operator shall add the gap surface area of each gap location for the secondary seal and divide the sum by the nominal diameter of the vessel. The owner or operator shall include the calculations in the record of the seal gap measurement as specified in § 65.47(c)(2). The accumulated area of gaps between the vessel wall and the secondary seal used in combination with a metallic shoe seal or liquid-mounted primary seal shall not exceed 21.2 square centimeters per meter of vessel diameter (1.00 square inch per foot of vessel diameter) and the width of any portion of any gap shall not exceed 1.27 centimeters (0.50 inch). The secondary seal gap requirements may be exceeded during the measurement of primary seal gaps as required by paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(9) If the owner or operator determines that it is unsafe to perform the seal gap measurements or to inspect the vessel to determine compliance because the floating roof appears to be structurally unsound and poses an imminent or potential danger to inspecting personnel, the owner or operator shall comply with one of the following requirements:

(i) The owner or operator shall measure the seal gaps or inspect the storage vessel no later than 30 calendar days after the determination that the roof is unsafe; or

(ii) The owner or operator shall empty and remove the storage vessel from service no later than 45 calendar days after determining that the roof is unsafe. If the vessel cannot be emptied within 45 calendar days, the owner or operator may utilize up to two extensions of up to 30 additional calendar days each and comply with the recordkeeping requirements in § 65.47(d).

(10) The owner or operator shall visually inspect for EFR failures, the external floating roof, the primary seal, secondary seal, and fittings prior to initial filling and each time the vessel is emptied (including initially before the vessel is filled with regulated material), shall maintain records of the EFR inspection results as specified in § 65.47(c)(1), and shall comply with the refilling notification requirements specified in § 65.48(c)(1).
