
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart C - Storage Vessels
###### § 65.47 Recordkeeping provisions.
####### Inspection results.

(c)The owner or operator shall keep the records specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each IFR or EFR inspection required by § 65.43(c)(1) and (2), or § 65.44(c)(10), respectively, a record containing the following information, as appropriate:

(i) In the event that no IFR type A failure, IFR type B failure, or EFR failure is observed, a record showing that the inspection was performed. The record shall identify the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed, the date the storage vessel was inspected, and references indicating which items were inspected.

(ii) In the event that an IFR type A failure, IFR type B failure, or EFR failure is observed, a record that identifies the storage vessel on which the inspection was performed, the date the storage vessel was inspected, a description of the failure and of the repair made, the date the vessel was emptied (if applicable), and the date that the repair was made. As specified in § 65.48(b)(1), the owner or operator shall include this record in the periodic report.

(2) For each EFR seal gap measurement required by § 65.44(c)(1), (2), or (3), a record describing the results of the measurement. The record shall identify the vessel on which the measurement was performed, shall include the date of the measurement, the raw data obtained in the measurement, and the calculations described in § 65.44(c)(7) and (8), and shall meet the following two additional requirements, as appropriate:

(i) In the event that the seal gap measurements do conform to the specifications in § 65.44(c)(7) and (8), the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 65.48(b)(2)(i) in the periodic report.

(ii) In the event that the seal gap measurements do not conform to the specifications in § 65.44(c)(7) and (8), the owner or operator shall also keep a description of the repairs that were made, the date the repairs were made, and the date the storage vessel was emptied and shall include a report of the seal gap measurement results in the periodic report as specified in § 65.48(b)(2)(ii).
