
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart D - Process Vents
###### ยง 65.63 Performance and group status change requirements.
####### 98 percent or 20 parts per million standard.

(2)Reduce emissions of regulated material or TOC by at least 98 weight-percent or to a concentration of less than 20 parts per million by volume, whichever is less stringent. For combustion devices, the emission reduction or concentration shall be calculated on a dry basis, and corrected to 3 percent oxygen. The owner or operator shall meet the requirements in ยง 65.142(b) and paragraphs (a)(2)(i) and/or (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) Compliance with paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be achieved by using any combination of recovery and/or control device to meet the 20 parts per million by volume concentration standard; or by using any combination of recovery and/or control device to meet the 98 weight percent reduction standard, if the recovery device meets the conditions of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) An owner or operator may use a recovery device alone or in combination with one or more control devices to reduce emissions of total regulated material by 98 weight-percent if all of the following conditions are met:

(A) For process vents referenced to this part by 40 CFR part 63, subpart G, the recovery device (and any control device that operates in combination with the recovery device to reduce emissions of total regulated material by 98 weight-percent) was installed before December 31, 1992.

(B) The recovery device that will be used to reduce emissions of total regulated material by 98 weight-percent is the last recovery device before emission to the atmosphere.

(C) The recovery device alone or in combination with one or more control devices is capable of reducing emissions of total regulated material by 98 weight-percent but is not capable of reliably reducing emissions of total regulated material to a concentration of 20 parts per million by volume.

(D) If the owner or operator disposed of the recovered material, the recovery device would be considered a control device and comply with the requirements of this subpart and ยง 65.142(b) for control devices.
