
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart D - Process Vents
###### ยง 65.64 Group determination procedures.
####### Method 25A.

(2)The following procedures shall be used to calculate parts per million by volume concentration using Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60:

(i) Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used only if a single organic compound of regulated material is greater than 50 percent of total organic HAP or TOC, by volume, in the process vent.

(ii) The process vent composition may be determined by either process knowledge, test data collected using an appropriate EPA method, or a method or data validated according to the protocol in Method 301 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 63. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current process vent conditions.

(iii) The organic compound used as the calibration gas for Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be the single organic compound of regulated material present at greater than 50 percent of the total organic HAP or TOC by volume.

(iv) The span value for Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be equal to the appropriate concentration value in table 1 to this subpart.

(v) Use of Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 is acceptable if the response from the high-level calibration gas is at least 20 times the standard deviation of the response from the zero calibration gas when the instrument is zeroed on the most sensitive scale.

(vi) The owner or operator shall demonstrate that the concentration of TOC including methane and ethane measured by Method 25A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 is below one-half the appropriate value in table 1 to this subpart to be considered a Group 2B vent with an organic HAP or TOC concentration below the appropriate value in table 1 to this subpart.
