
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart E - Transfer Racks
###### ยง 65.83 Performance requirements.
####### Halogen reduction device following combustion.

(1)If a combustion device is used to comply with paragraph (a)(1) of this section for a halogenated vent stream, then the vent stream exiting the combustion device shall be ducted to a halogen reduction device including, but not limited to, a scrubber before it is discharged to the atmosphere, and the halogen reduction device shall meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. The halogenated vent stream shall not be combusted using a flare.

(i) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section, the halogen reduction device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by 99 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass emission rate of total hydrogen halides and halogens to 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour) or less, whichever is less stringent. The owner or operator shall meet the applicable requirements of ยง 65.142(c).

(ii) If a scrubber or other halogen reduction device was installed prior to December 31, 1992, the halogen reduction device shall reduce overall emissions of hydrogen halides and halogens by 95 percent or shall reduce the outlet mass of total hydrogen halides and halogens to less than 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour), whichever is less stringent. The owner or operator shall meet the applicable requirements of ยง 65.142(c).
