
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart M - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region X
###### Implementation Plan for the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation of Idaho
####### ยง 49.10711 Federal Implementation Plan for the Astaris-Idaho LLC Facility (formerly owned by FMC Corporation) in the Fort Hall PM-10 Nonattainment Area.
######## Emission limitations and work practice requirements.

(c)(1)(i) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(ii), (c)(1)(iii), and (c)(2) of this section, there shall be no visible emissions from any location at the Astaris-Idaho facility at any time, as determined by a visual observation.

(ii) Emissions from the following equipment, activities, processes, or sources shall not exceed 20% opacity over a six minute average. Method 9, of 40 CFR part 60, appendix A, is the reference test method for this requirement.

(A) Brazing, welding, and welding equipment and oxygen-hydrogen cutting torches;

(B) Plant upkeep, including routine housekeeping, preparation for and painting of structures;

(C) Grinding, sandblasting, and cleaning operations that are not part of a routine operation or a process at the Astaris-Idaho facility;

(D) Cleaning and sweeping of streets and paved surfaces;

(E) Lawn and landscaping activities;

(F) Repair and maintenance activities;

(G) Landfill operations;

(H) Laboratory vent stacks; and

(I) Pond piping discharges.

(iii) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, emissions from equipment, activities, processes, or sources not identified in Table 1 to this section shall not exceed 10% opacity over a six minute average provided that Astaris-Idaho has complied with the requirements of paragraph (c)(11) of this section and provided further that a more stringent opacity limit has not been established for the source in this section. Method 9, 40 CFR Part 60, appendix A, is the reference test method for this requirement.

(2) For each source identified in Column II of Table 1 to this section, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall comply with the emission limitations and work practice requirements for that source established in Column III of Table 1 to this section.

(3) The opacity limits for the following fugitive emission sources, which are also identified in Column II of Table 1 to this section, apply to adding of material to, taking of material from, reforming, or otherwise disturbing the pile: main shale pile (Table 1 of this section, source 2), emergency/contingency raw ore shale pile (Table 1 of this section, source 3), stacker and reclaimer (Table 1 of this section, source 4), recycle material pile (Table 1 of this section, source 8b), nodule pile (Table 1 of this section, source 11), and screened shale fines pile (Table 1 of this section, source 14).

(4)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section, beginning November 1, 2000, the following activities shall be prohibited:

(A) The discharge of molten slag from furnaces or slag runners onto the ground, pit floors (whether dressed with crushed slag or not), or other non-mobile permanent surface.

(B) The digging of solid slag in the slag pit area or the loading of slag into transport trucks in the slag pit area.

(ii) The prohibition set forth in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section shall not apply to the lining of slag pots and the handling (including but not limited to loading, crushing, or digging) of cold slag for purposes of the lining of slag pots.

(5)(i) Beginning January 1, 2001, no furnace gas shall be burned in the existing elevated secondary condenser flare or the existing ground flare (Table 1 of this section, source 26a).

(ii) Until December 31, 2000, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall take the following measures to reduce PM-10 emissions from mini-flushes and to ensure there is no bias toward conducting mini-flushes during night-time hours.

(A) Mini-flushes shall be limited to no more than 50 minutes per day (based on a monthly average) beginning January 1, 1999. Failure to meet this limit for any given calendar month will be construed as a separate violation for each day during that month that mini-flushes lasted more than 50 minutes. The monthly average for any calendar month shall be calculated by summing the duration (in actual minutes) of each mini-flush during that month and dividing by the number of days in that month.
