
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 65.102 Alternative means of emission limitation.
####### Permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation.

(d)Permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation shall be governed by the procedures in paragraph (d)(1) through (4) of this section.

(1) Where the standard is an equipment, design, or operational requirement, the following requirements apply:

(i) Each owner or operator applying for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation shall be responsible for collecting and verifying emission performance test data for an alternative means of emission limitation.

(ii) The Administrator will compare test data for the means of emission limitation to test data for the equipment, design, and operational requirements.

(iii) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve at least the same emission reduction as the equipment, design, and operational requirements of this subpart.

(2) Where the standard is a work practice, the following requirements apply:

(i) Each owner or operator applying for permission to use an alternative means of emission limitation shall be responsible for collecting and verifying test data for the alternative.

(ii) The owner or operator shall demonstrate the emission reduction achieved by the required work practice and the proposed alternative means of emission limitation.

(iii) The Administrator will compare the demonstrated emission reduction for the alternative means of emission limitation to the demonstrated emission reduction for the required work practices and will consider the commitment in paragraph (d)(2)(iv) of this section.

(iv) The Administrator may condition the permission on requirements that may be necessary to ensure operation and maintenance to achieve the same or greater emission reduction as the required work practices of this subpart.

(3) An owner or operator may offer a unique approach to demonstrate the alternative means of emission limitation.

(4) If in the judgment of the Administrator an alternative means of emission limitation will be approved, the Administrator will publish a notice of the determination in theusing the procedures pursuant to ยง 65.8(a).
