
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 65.104 Instrument and sensory monitoring for leaks.
####### Detection instrument calibration gas.

(4)Calibration gases shall be zero air (less than 10 parts per million of hydrocarbon in air) and the gases specified in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section except as provided in paragraph (b)(4)(ii) of this section.

(i) Mixtures of methane in air at a concentration no more than 2,000 parts per million greater than the leak definition concentration of the equipment monitored. If the monitoring instrument's design allows for multiple calibration scales, then the lower scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is no higher than 2,000 parts per million above the concentration specified as a leak, and the highest scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is approximately equal to 10,000 parts per million. If only one scale on an instrument will be used during monitoring, the owner or operator need not calibrate the scales that will not be used during that day's monitoring.

(ii) A calibration gas other than methane in air may be used if the instrument does not respond to methane or if the instrument does not meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. In such cases, the calibration gas may be a mixture of one or more of the compounds to be measured in air.
