
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 65.106 Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.
####### Monitoring frequency.

(3)The owner or operator shall monitor valves for leaks at the intervals specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (v) of this section and shall keep the record specified in paragraph (b)(3)(vi) of this section.

(i) If at least the greater of two valves or 2 percent of the valves in a process unit leak, as calculated according to paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once per month.

(ii) At process units with less than the greater of two leaking valves or 2 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator shall monitor each valve once each quarter except as provided in paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) through (v) of this section. Monitoring data generated before the regulated source became subject to the referencing subpart and meeting the criteria of either ยง 65.104(b)(1) through (5) or ยง 65.104(b)(6) may be used to qualify initially for less frequent monitoring under paragraphs (b)(3)(iii) through (v) of this section.

(iii) At process units with less than 1 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 quarters.

(iv) At process units with less than 0.5 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 4 quarters.

(v) At process units with less than 0.25 percent leaking valves, the owner or operator may elect to monitor each valve once every 2 years.

(vi) The owner or operator shall keep a record of the monitoring schedule for each process unit.
