
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart M - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region X
###### Implementation Plan for the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation of Idaho
####### ยง 49.10711 Federal Implementation Plan for the Astaris-Idaho LLC Facility (formerly owned by FMC Corporation) in the Fort Hall PM-10 Nonattainment Area.
######## Reference test methods.

(d)(1) For each source identified in Column II of Table 1 to this section, the reference test method for the corresponding emission limitation in Column III of Table 1 to this section for that source is identified in Column IV of Table 1 to this section. For each source identified in Column II of Table 2 to this section, the reference test method for the corresponding opacity action level in Column III of Table 2 to this section for that source is identified in Column IV of Table 2 to this section.

(2) When Method 201/201A or Methods 201/201A and 202 of 40 CFR Part 60, appendix A, are specified as the reference test methods, the testing shall be conducted in accordance with the identified test methods and the following additional requirements:

(i) Each test shall consist of three runs, with each run a minimum of one hour.

(ii) Method 202 shall be run concurrently with Method 201 or Method 201A. Unless Method 202 is specifically designated as part of the reference test method, Method 202 shall be performed on each source for informational purposes only and the results from the Method 202 test shall not be included in determining compliance with the mass emission limit for the source.

(iii) The source shall be operated at a capacity of at least 90% of maximum during all tests unless the Regional Administrator determines in writing that other operating conditions are representative of normal operations.

(iv) Only regular operating staff may adjust the processes or emission control device parameters during a performance test or within two hours prior to the tests. Any operating adjustments made during a performance test, which are a result of consultation during the tests with source testing personnel, equipment vendors, or other consultants may render the source test invalid.

(v) For all reference tests, the sampling site and minimum number of sampling points shall be selected according to EPA Method 1 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A).

(vi) EPA Methods 2, 2C, 2D, 3, 3A, and 4 (40 CFR part 60, appendix A) shall be used, as appropriate, for determining mass emission rates.

(vii) The mass emission rate of PM-10 shall be determined as follows:
