
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 65.106 Standards: Valves in gas/vapor service and in light liquid service.
####### Leak repair.

(d)(1) If a leak is determined pursuant to paragraph (b), (e)(1), or (e)(2) of this section, then the leak shall be repaired using the procedures in ยง 65.105, as applicable.

(2) After a leak determined under paragraph (b) or (e)(2) of this section has been repaired, the valve shall be monitored at least once within the first 3 months after its repair. The monitoring required by paragraph (d) of this section is in addition to the monitoring required to satisfy the definition of repair.

(i) The monitoring shall be conducted as specified in ยง 65.104(b) and (c), as appropriate, to determine whether the valve has resumed leaking.

(ii) Periodic monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section may be used to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section if the timing of the monitoring period coincides with the time specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Alternatively, other monitoring may be performed to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section regardless of whether the timing of the monitoring period for periodic monitoring coincides with the time specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) If a leak is detected by monitoring that is conducted under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall comply with the following provisions to determine whether that valve must be counted as a leaking valve for purposes of paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section:

(A) If the owner or operator elected to use periodic monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve.

(B) If the owner or operator elected to use other monitoring, prior to the periodic monitoring required by paragraph (b) of this section, to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (d)(2) of this section, then the valve shall be counted as a leaking valve unless it is repaired and shown by periodic monitoring not to be leaking.
