
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### § 65.107 Standards: Pumps in light liquid service.
####### Special provisions for pumps,Dual mechanical seal pumps.

(e)-(1)Each pump equipped with a dual mechanical seal system that includes a barrier fluid system is exempt from the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section, provided the requirements specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (viii) of this section are met.

(i) The owner or operator determines, based on design considerations and operating experience, criteria applicable to the presence and frequency of drips and to the sensor that indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both. The owner or operator shall keep records of the design criteria and an explanation of the design criteria, and any changes to these criteria and the reasons for the changes.

(ii) Each dual mechanical seal system shall meet the following three requirements:

(A) Operated with the barrier fluid at a pressure that is at all times (except periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction) greater than the pump stuffing box pressure; or

(B) Equipped with a barrier fluid degassing reservoir that is routed to a process or fuel gas system or connected by a closed vent system to a control device that complies with the requirements of § 65.115; or

(C) Equipped with a closed-loop system that purges the barrier fluid into a process stream.

(iii) The barrier fluid is not in light liquid service.

(iv) Each barrier fluid system is equipped with a sensor that will detect failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both.

(v) Each pump is checked by visual inspection each calendar week for indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal. The owner or operator shall document that the inspection was conducted and the date of the inspection. If there are indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal at the time of the weekly inspection, the owner or operator shall follow either one of the following procedures prior to the next required inspection:

(A) The owner or operator shall monitor the pump as specified in § 65.104(b) and (c) to determine if there is a leak of regulated material in the barrier fluid. If an instrument reading of 1,000 parts per million or greater is measured, a leak is detected and it shall be repaired using the procedures in § 65.105; or

(B) The owner or operator shall eliminate the visual indications of liquids dripping.

(vi) If indications of liquids dripping from the pump seal exceed the criteria established in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, or if based on the criteria established in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section the sensor indicates failure of the seal system, the barrier fluid system, or both, a leak is detected.

(vii) Each sensor as described in paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section is observed daily or is equipped with an alarm unless the pump is located within the boundary of an unmanned plant site.

(viii) When a leak is detected pursuant to paragraph (e)(1)(vi) of this section, it shall be repaired as specified in § 65.105.
