
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### ยง 65.116 Quality improvement program for pumps.
####### Data collection.

(2)The owner or operator shall collect the data specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (v) of this section and maintain records for each pump in each process unit (or plant site) subject to the quality improvement program. The data may be collected and the records may be maintained on a process unit or plant site basis.

(i) Pump type (for example, piston, horizontal or vertical centrifugal, gear, bellows); pump manufacturer; seal type and manufacturer; pump design (for example, external shaft, flanged body); materials of construction; if applicable, barrier fluid or packing material; and year installed.

(ii) Service characteristics of the stream such as discharge pressure, temperature, flow rate, corrosivity, and annual operating hours.

(iii) The maximum instrument readings observed in each monitoring observation before repair, response factor for the stream if appropriate, instrument model number, and date of the observation.

(iv) If a leak is detected, the repair methods used and the instrument readings after repair.

(v) If the data will be analyzed as part of a larger analysis program involving data from other plants or other types of process units, a description of any maintenance or quality assurance programs used in the process unit that are intended to improve emission performance.

(3) The owner or operator shall continue to collect data on the pumps as long as the process unit (or plant site) remains in the quality improvement program.
