
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart F - Equipment Leaks
###### § 65.119 Recordkeeping provisions.
####### General equipment leak records.

(b)(1) As specified in § 65.103(a) through (c), the owner or operator shall keep general and specific equipment identification if the equipment is not physically tagged and the owner or operator is electing to identify the equipment subject to subpart F of this part through written documentation such as a log or other designation.

(2) The owner or operator shall keep a written plan as specified in § 65.103(c)(4) for any equipment that is designated as unsafe- or difficult-to-monitor.

(3) The owner or operator shall maintain a record of the identity and an explanation as specified in § 65.103(d)(2) for any equipment that is designated as unsafe to repair.

(4) As specified in § 65.103(e), the owner or operator shall maintain a record of the identity of compressors operating with an instrument reading of less than 500 parts per million.

(5) The owner or operator shall keep records associated with the determination that equipment is in heavy liquid service as specified in § 65.103(f).

(6) The owner or operator shall keep records for leaking equipment as specified in § 65.104(e)(2).

(7) The owner or operator shall keep records for leak repair as specified in § 65.105(f) and records for delay of repair as specified in § 65.105(d).

(8) For instrument response factor criteria determinations performed pursuant to § 65.104(b)(2)(i), the owner or operator shall maintain a record of an engineering assessment that identifies the representative composition of the process fluid. The assessment shall be based on knowledge of the compounds present in the process, similarity of response factors for the materials present, the range of compositions encountered during monitoring, or other information available to the owner or operator.

(9) The owner or operator shall keep records of the detection limit calibration as specified in § 65.104(b)(3).
