
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart M - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region X
###### Implementation Plan for the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation of Idaho
####### ยง 49.10711 Federal Implementation Plan for the Astaris-Idaho LLC Facility (formerly owned by FMC Corporation) in the Fort Hall PM-10 Nonattainment Area.
######## 2

() The Regional Administrator approves the request in writing.

(ix) During each test run and for at least two hours prior to the test and two hours after the test is completed, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall monitor and record the parameters specified in paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4), (e)(5), and (e)(6) of this section, as appropriate, for the source being tested, and shall report the results to EPA as part of the performance test report referred to in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(G) of this section.

(x) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall conduct a 12 minute visible emission observation using Method 9 of 40 CFR Part 60, appendix A, at least twice during the performance test at an interval of no less than one hour apart, and shall report the results of this observation to EPA as part of the performance test report referred to in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(G) of this section.

(xi) Concurrently with the performance testing, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall measure the flow rate (throughput to the control device) using Method 2 of 40 CFR Part 60, appendix A, for the calciner scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, source 9a) and the phos dock Andersen scrubber (Table 1 of this section, source 21a) and shall report the results to EPA as part of the performance test report referred to in paragraph (g)(3)(i)(G) of this section.

(2) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications a device to continuously measure and continuously record the pressure drop across the baghouse for each of the following sources identified in Column II of Table I: east shale baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 5a), middle shale baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 6a), west shale baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 7a), north nodule discharge baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 12a), north reclaim baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 13), south nodule discharge baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 12b), proportioning building-east nodule baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 15a), proportioning building-west nodule baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 15b), nodule stockpile baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 16a), dust silo baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 17a), furnace building-east baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 18a), furnace building-west baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 18b), and coke handling baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 20a).

(i) The devices shall be installed and fully operational no later than 210 days after August 23, 2000.

(ii) Upon EPA approval of the acceptable range of baghouse pressure drop for each source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the approved range. Until EPA approval of the acceptable range of baghouse pressure drop for each source, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the proposed range for that source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) If an excursion from an approved range occurs, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall immediately upon discovery, but no later than within three hours of discovery, initiate corrective action to bring source operation back within the approved range.

(iv) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall complete the corrective action as expeditiously as possible.

(3) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate in accordance with the manufacture's specifications and the bag leak detection guidance a triboelectric monitor to continuously monitor and record the readout of the instrument response for each of the following sources identified in Column II of Table 1 to this section: east shale baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 5a), middle shale baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 6a), west shale baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 7a), north nodule discharge baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 12a), south nodule discharge baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 12b), north reclaim baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 13), proportioning building-east nodule baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 15a), proportioning building-west nodule baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 15b), nodule stockpile baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 16a), dust silo baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 17a), furnace building-east baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 18a), furnace building-west baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 18b), and coke handling baghouse (Table 1 of this section, source 20a).

(i) The triboelectric monitors shall be installed and fully operational no later than 210 days after August 23, 2000.

(ii) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the approved range. For the triboelectric monitors, the "approved range" shall be defined as operating the source so that an "alarm," as defined in and as determined in accordance with the bag leak detection guidance, does not occur.

(iii) If an excursion from an approved range occurs, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall immediately upon discovery, but no later than within three hours of discovery, initiate corrective action to bring source operation back within the approved range.

(iv) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall complete the corrective action as expeditiously as possible.

(4) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, a device to continuously measure and continuously record the pressure drop across the scrubber and the scrubber liquor flowrate for each of the calciner scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, source 9a).

(i) The devices for the calciner scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, source 9a) shall be installed and fully operational on or before December 1, 2000.

(ii) Upon EPA approval of the acceptable range of pressure drop, scrubber liquor flow rate, and scrubber liquor pH for the calciner scrubbers, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the approved range. Until EPA approval of the acceptable ranges for each source, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the calciner scrubbers to stay within the proposed range for that source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) If an excursion from an approved range occurs, Astaris-Idaho shall immediately upon discovery, but no later than within three hours of discovery, initiate corrective action to bring calciner scrubber operation back within the approved range.

(iv) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall complete the corrective action as expeditiously as possible.

(5) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, a device to continuously measure and continuously record the pressure drop across the scrubber for each of the following sources identified in Column II of Table 1 to this section: furnaces #1, #2, #3 and #4-Medusa-Andersen scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, sources 18d, 18e, 18f and 18g), phos dock Andersen scrubber (Table 1 of this section, source 21a), and excess CO burner-Andersen scrubber (Table 1 of this section, source 26b).

(i) The device for furnaces #1, #2, #3 and #4-Medusa-Andersen scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, sources 18d, 18e, 18f and 18g) and the phos dock Andersen scrubber (Table 1 of this section, source 21a) shall be installed and fully operational no later than 210 days after August 23, 2000. The device for the excess CO burner (Table 1 of this section, source 26b) shall be installed and fully operational no later than January 1, 2001.

(ii) Upon EPA approval of the acceptable range of scrubber pressure drop for each source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the approved range. Until EPA approval of the acceptable ranges of scrubber pressure drop for each source, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the proposed range for that source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) If an excursion from an approved range occurs, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall immediately upon discovery, but no later than within three hours of discovery, initiate corrective action to bring source operation back within the approved range.

(iv) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall complete the corrective action as expeditiously as possible.

(6) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall develop and implement a written plan for monitoring the scrubber water quality (through a parameter(s) such as total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, conductivity, specific gravity, etc) on a daily basis for the following sources: calciner scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, source 9a) and furnace #1, #2, #3 and #4-Medusa-Andersen scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, sources 18d, 18e, 18f and 18g).

(i) The plan for furnaces #1, #2, #3 and #4-Medusa-Andersen scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, sources 18d, 18e, 18f and 18g) shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 180 days after September 22, 2000. The plan for the calciner scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, source 9a) shall submitted to the Regional Administrator no later than December 1, 2000.

(ii) Upon EPA approval of the acceptable parameter range for water quality for each source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the approved range. Until EPA approval of the acceptable range of water quality for each source, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall maintain and operate the source to stay within the proposed range for that source, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) If an excursion from an approved range occurs, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall immediately upon discovery, but no later than within three hours of discovery, initiate corrective action to bring source operation back within the approved range.

(iv) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall complete the corrective action as expeditiously as possible.

(7) For each of the pressure relief vents on the furnaces (Table 1 of this section, source 24), Astaris-Idaho shall install, calibrate, maintain, and operate in accordance with the manufacturer's specifications, devices to continuously measure and continuously record the temperature and pressure of gases in the relief vent downstream of the pressure relief valve and the water level of the pressure relief valve.

(i) The devices shall be installed and fully operational no later than 90 days after August 23, 2000.

(ii) A "pressure release" is defined as an excursion of the temperature, pressure, or water level outside of the parameters approved in accordance with paragraph (g)(1) of this section. Until EPA approval of the acceptable range of parameters for the pressure release vents, a "pressure release" is defined as an excursion of the temperature, pressure, or water level outside of the parameters proposed by the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility for the pressure relief vents, as provided in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(iii) The release point on each pressure relief vent shall be maintained at no less than 18 inches of water.

(iv) When a pressure release through a pressure relief vent is detected, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall, within 30 minutes of the beginning of the pressure release, inspect the pressure relief valve to ensure that it has properly sealed and verify that at least 18 inches of water seal pressure is maintained.

(8) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall develop and implement a written O&M plan covering all sources of PM-10 at the Astaris-Idaho facility, including without limitation, each source identified in Column II of Table 1 of this section and uncaptured fugitive and general fugitive emissions of PM-10 from each source.

(i) The purpose of the O&M plan is to ensure each source at the Astaris-Idaho facility will be operated and maintained consistent with good air pollution control practices and procedures for maximizing control efficiency and minimizing emissions at all times, including periods of startup, shutdown, emergency, and malfunction, and to establish procedures for assuring continuous compliance with the emission limitations, work practice requirements, and other requirements of this section.

(ii) The O&M plan shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 60 days of September 22, 2000 and shall cover all sources and requirements for which compliance is required 90 days after August 23, 2000.

(A) A revision to the O&M plan covering each source or requirement with a compliance date of more than 60 days after September 22, 2000 shall be submitted at least 60 days before the source is required to comply with the requirement.

(B) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall review and, as appropriate, update the O&M plan at least annually.

(C) The Regional Administrator may require the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility to modify the plan if, at any time, the Regional Administrator determines that the O&M plan does not:
