
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.143 Closed vent systems.
####### Closed vent system inspection procedures.

(c)The provisions of paragraph (c) of this section apply to closed vent systems collecting regulated material from a storage vessel, transfer rack, or equipment leaks.

(1) Each closed vent system subject to paragraph (c) of this section shall be inspected according to the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Inspections shall be conducted in accordance with Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 except as specified in this section.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, the detection instrument shall meet the performance criteria of Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60, except the instrument response factor criteria in section 3.1.2(a) of Method 21 shall be for the representative composition of the process fluid not each individual organic compound in the stream. For process streams that contain nitrogen, air, water, or other inerts that are not organic hazardous air pollutants or volatile organic compounds, the response factor shall be determined on an inert-free basis. The response factor may be determined at any concentration for which the monitoring for leaks will be conducted. Maintain the record specified by ยง 65.163(a)(5).

(iii) If no instrument is available at the plant site that will meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, the instrument readings may be adjusted by multiplying by the representative response factor of the process fluid calculated on an inert-free basis as described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The detection instrument shall be calibrated before use on each day of its use by the procedures specified in Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60.

(v) Calibration gases shall be as specified in the following:

(A) Zero air (less than 10 parts per million hydrocarbon in air).

(B) Mixtures of methane in air at a concentration less than 10,000 parts per million. A calibration gas other than methane in air may be used if the instrument does not respond to methane or if the instrument does not meet the performance criteria specified in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section. In such cases, the calibration gas may be a mixture of one or more of the compounds to be measured in air.

(C) If the detection instrument's design allows for multiple calibration scales, then the lower scale shall be calibrated with a calibration gas that is no higher than 2,500 parts per million.

(vi) An owner or operator may elect to adjust or not adjust instrument readings for background. If an owner or operator elects not to adjust readings for background, all such instrument readings shall be compared directly to 500 parts per million to determine whether there is a leak. If an owner or operator elects to adjust instrument readings for background, the owner or operator shall measure background concentration using the procedures in this section. The owner or operator shall subtract the background reading from the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument.

(vii) If the owner or operator elects to adjust for background, the arithmetic difference between the maximum concentration indicated by the instrument and the background level shall be compared with 500 parts per million for determining whether there is a leak.

(2) The instrument probe shall be traversed around all potential leak interfaces as close to the interface as possible as described in Method 21 of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4) of this section, inspections shall be performed when the equipment is in regulated material service or in use with any other detectable gas or vapor.

(4) Inspections of the closed vent system collecting regulated material from a transfer rack shall be performed only while a tank truck or railcar is being loaded or is otherwise pressurized to normal operating conditions with regulated material or any other detectable gas or vapor.
