
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.143 Closed vent systems.
####### Closed vent system inspection requirements.

(b)The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section apply to closed vent systems collecting regulated material from a storage vessel, transfer rack or equipment leaks. Inspection records shall be generated as specified in ยง 65.163(a)(3) and (4).

(1) Except for closed vent systems operated and maintained under negative pressure and as provided in paragraphs (b)(2) and (3) of this section, each closed vent system shall be inspected as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) If the closed vent system is constructed of hard-piping, the owner or operator shall comply with the following requirements:

(A) Conduct an initial inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section; and

(B) Conduct annual visual inspections for visible, audible, or olfactory indications of leaks.

(ii) If the closed vent system is constructed of ductwork, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial and annual inspection according to the procedures in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated as described in ยง 65.163(a)(2) as unsafe to inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the following conditions are met:

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment is unsafe to inspect because inspecting personnel would be exposed to an imminent or potential danger as a consequence of complying with paragraph (b)(1) of this section; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment as frequently as practical during safe-to-inspect times. Inspection is not required more than once annually.

(3) Any parts of the closed vent system that are designated, as described in ยง 65.163(a)(2), as difficult-to-inspect are exempt from the inspection requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if the following provisions apply:

(i) The owner or operator determines that the equipment cannot be inspected without elevating the inspecting personnel more than 2 meters (7 feet) above a support surface; and

(ii) The owner or operator has a written plan that requires inspection of the equipment at least once every 5 years.
