
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.148 Incinerators.
####### Incinerator monitoring requirements.

(c)(1) Where an incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record that meets the provisions specified in paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section is required. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156.

(i) Where an incinerator other than a catalytic incinerator is used, a temperature monitoring device shall be installed in the fire box or in the ductwork immediately downstream of the fire box in a position before any substantial heat exchange occurs.

(ii) Where a catalytic incinerator is used, temperature monitoring devices shall be installed in the gas stream immediately before and after the catalyst bed.

(2) The owner or operator shall establish a range for monitored parameters that indicates proper operation of the incinerator. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 65.165(c) shall be submitted in the Initial Compliance Status Report or the operating permit application or amendment. The range may be based upon a prior performance test meeting the specifications of § 65.157(b)(1) or upon existing ranges or limits established under a referencing subpart.
