
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.147 Flares.
####### Flare equipment and operating requirements.

(a)Flares subject to this subpart shall meet the performance requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section.

(1) Flares shall be operated at all times when emissions are vented to them.

(2) Flares shall be designed for and operated with no visible emissions as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section, except for periods not to exceed a total of 5 minutes during any 2 consecutive hours.

(3) Flares shall be operated with a flare flame or at least one pilot flame present at all times, as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) An owner/operator has the choice of adhering to either the heat content specifications in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section and the maximum tip velocity specifications in paragraph (a)(6) of this section, or adhering to the requirements in paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section.

(i)(A) Flares shall be used that have a diameter of 3 inches or greater, are nonassisted, have a hydrogen content of 8.0 percent (by volume), or greater, and are designed for and operated with an exit velocity less than 37.2 m/sec (122 ft/sec) and less than the velocity, V, as determined by Equation 147-1 of this section:

(B) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by the method specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section.

(ii) Flares shall be used only when the net heating value of the gas being combusted is 11.2 megajoules per standard cubic meter (300 British thermal units per standard cubic foot) or greater if the flare is steam-assisted or air-assisted, or when the net heating value of the gas being combusted is 7.45 megajoules per standard cubic meter (200 British thermal units per standard cubic foot) or greater if the flare is nonassisted. The net heating value of the gas being combusted shall be determined by the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.

(5) Flares used to comply with this section shall be steam-assisted, air-assisted, or nonassisted.

(6) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, less than 18.3 meters per second (60 feet per sec) except as provided in the following two paragraphs, as applicable:

(i) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, equal to or less than 122 meters per second (400 feet per second) if the net heating value of the gas being combusted is greater than 37.3 megajoules per standard cubic meter (1,000 British thermal units per standard cubic foot).

(ii) Steam-assisted and nonassisted flares shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, less than the velocity, V max, and less than 122 meters per second (400 feet per sec), where the maximum permitted velocity, V, is determined by Equation 147-2 of this section:

(7) Air-assisted flares shall be designed for and operated with an exit velocity as determined by the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3)(iii) of this section, less than the velocity, V, where the maximum permitted velocity, V, is determined by Equation 147-3 of this section:
