
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.149 Boilers and process heaters.
####### Boiler and process heater monitoring requirements.

(c)(1) Where a boiler or process heater of less than 44 megawatts (150 million British thermal units per hour) design heat input capacity is used and the regulated vent stream is not introduced as or with the primary fuel, a temperature monitoring device in the fire box capable of providing a continuous record is required. Any boiler or process heater in which all vent streams are introduced with primary fuel or are used as the primary fuel is exempt from monitoring. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156.

(2) Where monitoring is required, the owner or operator shall establish a range for monitored parameters that indicates proper operation of the boiler or process heater. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 65.165(c) shall be submitted in the Initial Compliance Status Report or the operating permit application or amendment. The range may be based upon a prior performance test meeting the specifications of § 65.157(b)(1) or upon existing ranges or limits established under a referencing subpart.
