
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.147 Flares.
####### Flare compliance determination.

(b)(1) Unless an initial flare compliance determination of the flare was previously conducted and submitted under the referencing subpart, the owner or operator shall conduct an initial flare compliance determination of any flare used to comply with the provisions of this subpart. Flare compliance determination records shall be kept as specified in § 65.159(a) and (b) and a flare compliance determination report shall be submitted as specified in § 65.164. An owner or operator is not required to conduct a performance test to determine percent emission reduction or outlet regulated material or TOC concentration when a flare is used.

(2) Unless already permitted by the applicable title V permit, if an owner or operator elects to use a flare to replace an existing control device at a later date, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator, either by amendment of the regulated source's title V permit or, if title V is not applicable, by submission of the notice specified in § 65.167(a). Upon implementing the change, a flare compliance determination shall be performed using the methods specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section within 180 days. The compliance determination report shall be submitted to the Administrator within 60 days of completing the determination as provided in § 65.164(b)(2). If an owner or operator elects to use a flare to replace an existing final recovery device that is used on a Group 2A process vent, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable provisions of §§ 65.63(e) and 65.67(b) and submit the notification specified in § 65.167(a).

(3) Flare compliance determinations shall meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Method 22 of appendix A of part 60 shall be used to determine the compliance of flares with the visible emission provisions of this subpart. The observation period is 2 hours, except for transfer racks as provided in either one of the following:

(A) For transfer racks, if the loading cycle is less than 2 hours, then the observation period for that run shall be for the entire loading cycle.

(B) For transfer racks, if additional loading cycles are initiated within the 2-hour period, then visible emissions observations shall be conducted for the additional cycles.

(ii) The net heating value of the gas being combusted in a flare shall be calculated using Equation 147-4 of this section:

(iii) The actual exit velocity of a flare shall be determined by dividing the volumetric flow rate (in units of standard temperature and pressure), as determined by Method 2, 2A, 2C, or 2D of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 as appropriate, by the unobstructed (free) cross-sectional area of the flare tip.

(iv) Flare flame or pilot monitors, as applicable, shall be operated during any flare compliance determination.
