
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.153 Absorbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers, and other recovery devices used as final recovery devices.
####### Recovery device monitoring requirements.

(c)(1) Where an absorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between 1.0 and 4.0, either an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, or a scrubbing liquid temperature monitoring device and a specific gravity monitoring device, each capable of providing a continuous record, shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156.

(2) Where a condenser is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between 1.0 and 4.0, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, or a condenser exit (product side) temperature monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156.

(3) Where a carbon adsorber is the final recovery device in the recovery system and the TRE index value is between 1.0 and 4.0, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, or an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of +/-10 percent or better capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle, and a carbon-bed temperature monitoring device capable of recording the carbon-bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle, shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156.

(4) Unless previously approved by the Administrator under an applicable standard prior to the implementation date of this part, as specified in § 65.1(f), if an owner or operator uses a recovery device other than those listed in this subpart, the owner or operator shall submit a description of planned monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping procedures as required under § 65.162(e). The Administrator will approve or deny the proposed monitoring, reporting and recordkeeping requirements as part of the review of the submission or permit application or by other appropriate means.

(5) The owner or operator shall establish a range for monitored parameters that indicates proper operation of the recovery device. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 65.165(c) shall be submitted in the Initial Compliance Status Report or the operating permit application or amendment. The range may be based upon a prior performance test meeting the specifications in § 65.157(b)(1) or upon existing ranges or limits established under a referencing subpart. Where the regeneration stream flow and carbon-bed temperature are monitored, the range shall be in terms of the total regeneration stream flow per regeneration cycle, and the temperature of the carbon-bed determined within 15 minutes of the completion of the regeneration cooling cycle.
