
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.152 Carbon adsorbers used as control devices.
####### Carbon adsorber monitoring requirements.

(c)(1) Where a carbon adsorber is used as a control device, an organic monitoring device capable of providing a continuous record, or an integrating regeneration stream flow monitoring device having an accuracy of +/-10 percent or better capable of recording the total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each regeneration cycle, and a carbon-bed temperature monitoring device capable of recording the carbon bed temperature after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle, shall be used. Monitoring results shall be recorded as specified in § 65.161. General requirements for monitoring and continuous parameter monitoring systems are contained in § 65.156.

(2) The owner or operator shall establish a range for monitored parameters that indicates proper operation of the carbon adsorber. Where the regeneration stream flow and carbon-bed temperature are monitored, the range shall be in terms of the total regeneration stream flow per regeneration cycle and the temperature of the carbon-bed determined within 15 minutes of the completion of the regeneration cooling cycle. In order to establish the range, the information required in § 65.165(c) shall be submitted in the Initial Compliance Status Report or the operating permit application or amendment. The range may be based upon a prior performance test meeting the specifications in § 65.157(b)(1) or upon existing ranges or limits established under a referencing subpart.
