
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.155 Other control devices.
####### Other control device performance test requirements.

(b)(1) Unless an initial performance test was previously conducted and submitted under the referencing subpart, an owner or operator of a control device other than those specified in §§ 65.147 through 65.152, to comply with § 65.63(a)(2) for process vents, or § 65.83(a)(1) for high-throughput transfer racks, shall perform an initial performance test according to the procedures in §§ 65.157 and 65.158. Performance test records shall be kept as specified in § 65.160(a) and (b), and a performance test report shall be submitted as specified in § 65.164.

(2) Unless already permitted by the applicable title V permit, if an owner or operator elects to use another control device to replace an existing control device at a later date, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator, either by amendment of the regulated source's title V permit or, if title V is not applicable, by submission of the notice specified in § 65.167(a) before implementing the change. Upon implementing the change, another control device performance test shall be performed using the methods specified in §§ 65.157 and 65.158 within 180 days if required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The performance test report shall be submitted to the Administrator within 60 days of completing the determination as provided in § 65.164(b)(2). If an owner or operator elects to use a control device to replace an existing recovery device that is used on a Group 2A process vent, the owner or operator shall comply with the applicable provisions of §§ 65.63(e) and 65.67(b) and submit the notification specified in § 65.167(a).
