
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.156 General monitoring requirements for control and recovery devices.
####### Operation and maintenance of continuous parameter monitoring systems.

(c)(1) All monitoring equipment shall be installed, calibrated, maintained, and operated according to manufacturers specifications or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.

(2) The owner or operator of a regulated source shall maintain and operate each CPMS as specified in this section or in a relevant subpart and in a manner consistent with good air pollution control practices.

(i) The owner or operator of a regulated source shall ensure the immediate repair or replacement of CPMS parts to correct "routine" or otherwise predictable CPMS malfunctions. The necessary parts for routine repairs of the affected equipment shall be readily available.

(ii) Except for Group 2A process vents, if the startup, shutdown, and malfunction plan is followed during a CPMS startup, shutdown, or malfunction and the CPMS is repaired immediately, this action shall be reported in the semiannual startup, shutdown, and malfunction report required under § 65.6(c).

(iii) The Administrator's determination of whether acceptable operation and maintenance procedures are being used for the CPMS will be based on information that may include, but is not limited to, review of operation and maintenance procedures, operation and maintenance records, manufacturer's recommendations and specifications, and inspection of the CPMS.

(3) All CPMS shall be installed and operational, and the data verified as specified in this subpart either prior to or in conjunction with conducting performance tests. Verification of operational status shall, at a minimum, include completion of the manufacturer's written specifications or recommendations for installation, operation, and calibration of the system or other written procedures that provide adequate assurance that the equipment would reasonably be expected to monitor accurately.

(4) All CPMS shall be installed such that representative measurements of parameters from the regulated source are obtained.

(5) In accordance with § 65.3(a)(3), except for system breakdowns, repairs, maintenance periods, instrument adjustments or checks to maintain precision and accuracy, calibration checks, and zero and span adjustments, all CPMS shall be in continuous operation when emissions are being routed to the monitored device.

(d) Except for Group 2A process vents, the parameter monitoring data shall be used to determine compliance with the required operating conditions for the monitored control devices. For each excursion, except for excused excursions and the excursions described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, the owner or operator shall be deemed to have failed to have applied the control in a manner that achieves the required operating conditions.

(1) An excursion means any of the three cases listed in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. For a control device where multiple parameters are monitored, if one or more of the parameters meets the excursion criteria in paragraph (d)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, this is considered a single excursion for the day for the control device.

(i) When the daily average value of one or more monitored parameters is outside the permitted range.

(ii) When the period of control or recovery device operation is 4 hours or greater in an operating day, and monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data for at least 75 percent of the operating hours.

(iii) When the period of control or recovery device operation is less than 4 hours in an operating day, and more than 1 hour during the period of operation does not constitute a valid hour of data due to insufficient monitoring data.

(iv) Monitoring data are insufficient to constitute a valid hour of data as used in paragraphs (d)(1)(ii) and (iii) of this section, if measured values are unavailable for any of the 15-minute periods within the hour. For data compression systems approved under § 65.162(d)(4), monitoring data are insufficient to calculate a valid hour of data if there are less than four data values recorded during the hour.

(2) One excused excursion for each control device or recovery device for each semiannual period is allowed.

(3) The following excursions are not violations and do not count as excused excursions:

(i) Excursions which occur during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, when the source is being operated during such periods to minimize emissions in accordance with § 65.3(a)(3).

(ii) Excursions which occur due to failure to collect a valid hour of data during periods of startup, shutdown, and malfunction, when the source is being operated during such periods in accordance with § 65.3(a)(3).

(iii) Excursions which occur during periods of nonoperation of the regulated source or portion thereof, resulting in cessation of the emissions to which monitoring applies.

(4) Nothing in paragraph (d) of this section shall be construed to allow or excuse a monitoring parameter excursion caused by any activity that violates other applicable provisions of this part.

(5) Paragraph (d) of this section applies to emission points and control devices for which continuous monitoring is required by this subpart, and to alternatives to continuous monitoring systems such as provided in § 65.162(d)(3) and (d)(4). Paragraph (d)(3) of this section also applies to emission points and control devices which are not subject to continuous monitoring requirements, such as inspections of the closed vent system.
