
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.158 Performance test procedures for control devices.
####### Halogen test method.

(c)An owner or operator using a halogen scrubber or other halogen reduction device to control halogenated vent streams in compliance with ยง 65.63(b)(1) for process vents, or ยง 65.83(b)(1) for transfer racks, who is required to conduct a performance test to determine compliance with the control efficiency or emission limits for hydrogen halides and halogens, as specified in ยง 65.154(b), shall comply with the following procedures:

(1) For an owner or operator determining compliance with the percent reduction of total hydrogen halides and halogens, sampling sites shall be located at the inlet and outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device used to reduce halogen emissions. For an owner or operator determining compliance with the less than 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pounds per hour) outlet emission limit for total hydrogen halides and halogens, the sampling site shall be located at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device and prior to any releases to the atmosphere.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, Method 26 or Method 26A of appendix A of 40 CFR part 60 shall be used to determine the concentration, in milligrams per dry standard cubic meter, of total hydrogen halides and halogens that may be present in the vent stream. The mass emissions of each hydrogen halide and halogen compound shall be calculated from the measured concentrations and the gas stream flow rate.

(3) To determine compliance with the percent removal efficiency, the mass emissions for any hydrogen halides and halogens present at the inlet of the halogen reduction device shall be summed together. The mass emissions of the compounds present at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device shall be summed together. Percent reduction shall be determined by comparison of the summed inlet and outlet measurements.

(4) To demonstrate compliance with the less than 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour) outlet emission limit, the test results must show that the mass emission rate of total hydrogen halides and halogens measured at the outlet of the scrubber or other halogen reduction device is below 0.45 kilogram per hour (0.99 pound per hour).
