
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.161 Continuous records and monitoring system data handling.
####### Records of daily averages.

(c)In addition to the records specified in paragraph (a) of this section, owners or operators shall also keep records as specified in paragraphs (c)(1) and (2) of this section unless an alternative monitoring or recordkeeping system has been requested and approved under ยง 65.162(d).

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, daily average values of each continuously monitored parameter shall be calculated for each operating day. Data meeting the specifications of paragraph (b) of this section shall not be included in the average. The data shall be reported in the periodic report as specified in ยง 65.166(f), if applicable.

(i) The daily average shall be calculated as the average of all values for a monitored parameter recorded during the operating day as specified in paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. The average shall cover a 24-hour period if operation is continuous, or the number of hours of operation per operating day if operation is not continuous (for example, for high-throughput transfer racks, the average shall cover periods of loading). If values are measured more frequently than once per minute, a single value for each minute may be used to calculate the daily average instead of all measured values.

(ii) The operating day shall be the period defined in the operating permit or the Initial Compliance Status Report. It may be from midnight to midnight or another daily period.

(2) If all monitored parameter values recorded under paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section, during an operating day are within the range established in the Initial Compliance Status Report or in the operating permit, the owner or operator does not have to calculate a daily average value for the operating day and may record that all values were within the range. The owner or operator must continue to retain the raw data, 15-minute averages, or the hourly averages required under paragraph (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.
