
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.160 Performance test and TRE index value determination records.
####### Nonflare combustion device.

(1)Where an owner or operator subject to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section seeks to demonstrate compliance with a percent reduction requirement or a parts per million by volume requirement using a nonflare combustion device, the following information shall be recorded:

(i) For thermal incinerators, record the fire box temperature measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the full period of the performance test.

(ii) For catalytic incinerators, record the upstream and downstream temperatures and the temperature difference across the catalyst bed measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the full period of the performance test.

(iii) For an incinerator, record the percent reduction of regulated material or TOC achieved by the incinerator determined as specified in ยง 65.158(b)(4), as applicable, or the concentration of regulated material or TOC (parts per million by volume, by compound) determined as specified in ยง 65.158(b)(3) at the outlet of the incinerator.

(iv) For a boiler or process heater, record a description of the location at which the vent stream is introduced into the boiler or process heater.

(v) For boilers or process heaters with a design heat input capacity less than 44 megawatts (150 British thermal units per hour) and where the vent stream is not introduced with or as the primary fuel, record the fire box temperature measured at least every 15 minutes and averaged over the full period of the performance test.

(vi) For a boiler or process heater with a design heat input capacity of less than 44 megawatts (150 British thermal units per hour) and where the vent stream is not introduced with or as the primary fuel, record the percent reduction of regulated material or TOC, or the concentration of regulated material or TOC (parts per million by volume, by compound) determined as specified in ยง 65.158(b)(3) at the outlet of the combustion device.
