
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.163 Other records.
####### Storage vessel and transfer rack records.

(b)For storage vessels, an owner or operator shall keep readily accessible records of the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable. For low-throughput transfer racks, an owner or operator shall keep readily accessible records of the information specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(1) A record of the measured values of the parameters monitored in accordance with § 65.145(c)(2) and report in the periodic report as specified in § 65.166(e), if applicable.

(2) A record of the planned routine maintenance performed on the control system during which the control system does not meet the applicable specifications of § 65.143(a), § 65.145(a), or § 65.147(a), as applicable, due to the planned routine maintenance. Such a record shall include the information specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section. This information shall be submitted in the periodic reports as specified in § 65.166(d)(1).

(i) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 65.143(a), § 65.145(a), or § 65.147(a), as applicable, were not met at the beginning of the planned routine maintenance.

(ii) The first time of day and date the requirements of § 65.143(a), § 65.145(a), or § 65.147(a), as applicable, were met at the conclusion of the planned routine maintenance.

(iii) A description of the type of maintenance performed.
