
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.162 Nonflare control and recovery device monitoring records.
####### Combustion control and halogen reduction device monitoring records.

(b)(1) Each owner or operator using a combustion control or halogen reduction device to comply with this subpart shall keep, as applicable, up-to-date and readily accessible continuous records, as specified in § 65.161(a); and records of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 65.148(c) (incinerator monitoring); § 65.149(c) (boiler and process heater monitoring); § 65.154(c) (halogen reduction device monitoring); § 65.155(c) (other control device monitoring); or specified by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Each owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 65.161(c)(1). For catalytic incinerators, record the daily average of the temperature upstream of the catalyst bed and the daily average of the temperature differential across the bed. For halogen scrubbers, record the daily average pH and the liquid-to-gas ratio.

(3) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries are exceeded and report these exceedances as specified in § 65.166(f)(1). The parameter boundaries are established pursuant to § 65.148(c)(2) (incinerator monitoring), § 65.149(c)(2) (boiler and process heater monitoring), § 65.154(c)(2) (halogen reduction device monitoring), or § 65.155(c)(2) (other control device monitoring), as applicable.
