
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.161 Continuous records and monitoring system data handling.
####### Alternative recordkeeping.

(e)For any parameter with respect to any item of equipment, the owner or operator may implement the recordkeeping requirements in paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section as alternatives to the continuous parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section. The owner or operator shall retain each record required by paragraph (e)(1) or (2) of this section as provided in § 65.4.

(1) The owner or operator may retain only the daily average value and is not required to retain more frequently monitored operating parameter values for a monitored parameter with respect to an item of equipment if the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section are met. The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of implementation of paragraph (e)(1) of this section in the Initial Compliance Status Report as required in § 65.165(e) or, if the Initial Compliance Status Report has already been submitted, in the periodic report as required in § 65.166(f)(4) immediately preceding implementation of the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(i) The monitoring system can detect unrealistic or impossible data during periods of operation other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions (for example, a temperature reading of -200 &#xB0;C on a boiler) and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(ii) The monitoring system shall generate a running average of the monitoring values, updated at least hourly throughout each operating day, that have been obtained during that operating day, and the capability to observe this average is readily available to the Administrator on-site during the operating day. All instances in an operating day constitute a single occurrence. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence of any period meeting the following criteria:

(A) The running average is above the maximum or below the minimum established limits;

(B) The running average is based on at least six 1-hour average values;

(C) The running average reflects a period of operation other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

(iii) The monitoring system shall be capable of detecting unchanging data during periods of operation other than startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions except in circumstances where the presence of unchanging data is the expected operating condition based on past experience (for example, pH in some scrubbers), and will alert the operator by alarm or other means. The owner or operator shall record the occurrence. All instances of the alarm or other alert in an operating day constitute a single occurrence.

(iv) The monitoring system shall alert the owner or operator by an alarm if the running average parameter value calculated under paragraph (e)(1)(ii) of this section reaches a set point that is appropriately related to the established limit for the parameter that is being monitored.

(v) The owner or operator shall verify and document the proper functioning of the monitoring system, including its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, at the following times:

(A) Upon initial installation;

(B) Annually after initial installation; and

(C) After any change to the programming or equipment constituting the monitoring system, that might reasonably be expected to alter the monitoring system's ability to comply with the requirements of this section.

(vi) The owner or operator shall retain the following records:

(A) Identification of each parameter for each item of equipment for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with the requirements of § 65.162(e).

(B) A description of the applicable monitoring system(s) and of how compliance will be achieved with each requirement of paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (v) of this section. The description shall identify the location and format (for example, on-line storage; log entries) for each required record. If the description changes, the owner or operator shall retain both the current and the most recent outdated description.

(C) A description and the date of any change to the monitoring system that would reasonably be expected to affect its ability to comply with the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.

(D) Owners and operators shall retain the current description of the monitoring system as long as the description is current, but not less than 5 years from the date of its creation. The current description shall be retained on-site at all times or be accessible from a central location by computer or other means that provide access within 2 hours after a request. The owner or operator shall retain the most recent outdated description at least until 5 years from the date of its creation. The outdated description shall be retained on-site (or accessible from a central location by computer that provides access within 2 hours after a request) at least 6 months after being outdated. Thereafter, the outdated description may be stored off-site.

(2) If an owner or operator has elected to implement the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section and a period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator is no longer required to record the daily average value for that parameter for that unit of equipment for any operating day when the daily average value is less than the maximum or greater than the minimum established limit. With approval by the Administrator, monitoring data generated prior to the compliance date of this subpart shall be credited toward the period of 6 consecutive months if the parameter limit and the monitoring were required and/or approved by the Administrator.

(i) If the owner or operator elects not to retain the daily average values, the owner or operator shall notify the Administrator in the next periodic report. The notification shall identify the parameter and unit of equipment.

(ii) If there is an excursion as defined in paragraph (e)(2)(iv) of this section on any operating day after the owner or operator has ceased recording daily averages as provided in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the owner or operator shall immediately resume retaining the daily average value for each day and shall notify the Administrator in the next periodic report. The owner or operator shall continue to retain each daily average value until another period of 6 consecutive months has passed without an excursion.

(iii) The owner or operator shall retain the records specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section for the duration specified in § 65.4. For any calendar week, if compliance with paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section does not result in retention of a record of at least one occurrence or measured parameter value, the owner or operator shall record and retain at least one parameter value during a period of operation other than a startup, shutdown, or malfunction.

(iv) For purposes of paragraph (e) of this section, an excursion means that the daily average value of monitoring data for a parameter is greater than the maximum or less than the minimum established value except as provided in the following:

(A) The daily average value during any startup, shutdown, or malfunction shall not be considered an excursion for purposes of this paragraph (e) if the owner or operator operates the source in accordance with § 65.3(a).

(B) Excused excursions described in § 65.156(d)(2) and excursions described in § 65.156(d)(3) do not count toward the number of excursions for purposes of this paragraph (e).
