
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.162 Nonflare control and recovery device monitoring records.
####### Monitoring records for recovery devices on Group 2A process vents and for absorbers, condensers, carbon adsorbers, or other noncombustion systems used as control devices.

(c)(1) Each owner or operator using a recovery device to achieve and maintain a TRE index value greater than 1.0 but less than 4.0 or using an absorber, condenser, carbon adsorber, or other noncombustion system as a control device shall keep readily accessible, continuous records, as specified in § 65.161(a), of the equipment operating parameters specified to be monitored under § 65.150(c) (absorber monitoring), § 65.151(c) (condenser monitoring), § 65.152(c) (carbon adsorber monitoring), § 65.153(c) (recovery device monitoring) or § 65.155(c) (other control device monitoring), or specified by the Administrator in accordance with paragraph (e) of this section. For transfer racks, continuous records are required while the transfer vent stream is being vented.

(2) Each owner or operator shall keep records of the daily average value of each continuously monitored parameter for each operating day determined according to the procedures specified in § 65.161(c)(1). If carbon adsorber regeneration stream flow and carbon bed regeneration temperature are monitored, the following records shall be kept instead of the daily averages, and the records shall be reported as specified in § 65.166(f)(2):

(i) Records of total regeneration stream mass or volumetric flow for each carbon-bed regeneration cycle; and

(ii) Records of the temperature of the carbon bed after each regeneration and within 15 minutes of completing any cooling cycle.

(3) Each owner or operator subject to the provisions of this subpart shall keep up-to-date, readily accessible records of periods of operation during which the parameter boundaries are exceeded and report these exceedances as specified in § 65.166(f)(1). The parameter boundaries are established pursuant to § 65.150(c)(2) (absorber monitoring), § 65.151(c)(2) (condenser monitoring), § 65.152(c)(2) (carbon adsorber monitoring), or § 65.155(c)(2) (other control device monitoring), as applicable.
