
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.163 Other records.
####### Closed vent system records.

(a)For closed vent systems, the owner or operator shall record the following information, as applicable:

(1) For each closed vent system that contains bypass lines that could divert a vent stream away from the control device and to the atmosphere, the owner or operator shall keep a record of the information specified in either paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section, as applicable. The information shall be reported as specified in § 65.166(b).

(i) Hourly records of whether the flow indicator specified under § 65.143(a)(3)(i) was operating and whether a diversion was detected at any time during the hour, as well as records of the times of all periods when the vent stream is diverted from the control device or the flow indicator is not operating.

(ii) Where a seal mechanism is used to comply with § 65.143(a)(3)(ii), hourly records of flow are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall record that the monthly visual inspection of the seals or closure mechanisms has been done and shall record the occurrence of all periods when the seal mechanism is broken, the bypass line valve position has changed, or the key for a lock-and-key type lock has been checked out, and records of any car-seal that has been broken.

(2) For closed vent systems collecting regulated material from a storage vessel, transfer rack, or equipment leak, the owner or operator shall record the identification of all parts of the closed vent system that are designated as unsafe or difficult-to-inspect pursuant to § 65.143(b)(2) or (3), an explanation of why the equipment is unsafe or difficult-to-inspect, and the plan for inspecting the equipment as required by § 65.143(b)(2)(ii) or (b)(3)(ii).

(3) For a closed vent system collecting regulated material from a storage vessel, transfer rack, or equipment leaks, when a leak is detected as specified in § 65.143(d)(1), the information specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section shall be recorded. The data shall be reported as specified in § 65.166(b)(1).

(i) The instrument and the equipment identification number and the operator name, initials, or identification number.

(ii) The date the leak was detected and the date of the first attempt to repair the leak.

(iii) The date of successful repair of the leak.

(iv) The maximum instrument reading measured by the procedures in § 65.143(c) after the leak is successfully repaired or determined to be nonrepairable.

(v) "Repair delayed" and the reason for the delay if a leak is not repaired within 15 calendar days after discovery of the leak. The owner or operator may develop a written procedure that identifies the conditions that justify a delay of repair. In such cases, reasons for delay of repair may be documented by citing the relevant sections of the written procedure.

(vi) Copies of the periodic reports if records are not maintained on a computerized database capable of generating summary reports from the records.

(4) For each instrumental or visual inspection conducted in accordance with § 65.143(b)(1) for closed vent systems collecting regulated material from a storage vessel, transfer rack, or equipment leaks during which no leaks are detected, the owner or operator shall record that the inspection was performed, the date of the inspection, and a statement that no leaks were detected.

(5) For instrument response factor criteria determinations performed pursuant to § 65.143(c)(1)(ii), the owner or operator shall maintain a record of an engineering assessment that identifies the representative composition of the process fluid. This assessment shall be based on knowledge of the compounds present in the process, similarity of response factors for the materials present, the range of compositions encountered during monitoring, or other information available to the owner or operator.
