
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.162 Nonflare control and recovery device monitoring records.
####### Alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions.

(d)An owner or operator may request approval to use alternatives to the continuous operating parameter monitoring and recordkeeping provisions listed in §§ 65.148(c), 65.149(c), 65.150(c), 65.151(c), 65.152(c), 65.153(c), 65.154(c), 65.160, and paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section.

(1) Requests shall be included in the operating permit application or as otherwise specified by the permitting authority and shall contain the information specified in paragraphs (d)(3) through (5) of this section, as applicable.

(2) The provisions in § 65.7(c) shall govern the review and approval of requests.

(3) An owner or operator of a source that does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of measuring parameter values at least once every 15 minutes and generating continuous records may request approval to use a nonautomated system with less frequent monitoring.

(i) The requested system shall include manual reading and recording of the value of the relevant operating parameter no less frequently than once per hour. Daily average values shall be calculated from these hourly values and recorded.

(ii) The request shall contain the following information:

(A) A description of the planned monitoring and recordkeeping system;

(B) Documentation that the source does not have an automated monitoring and recording system capable of meeting the specified requirements;

(C) Justification for requesting an alternative monitoring and recordkeeping system; and

(D) Demonstration to the Administrator's satisfaction that the proposed monitoring frequency is sufficient to represent control device operating conditions considering typical variability of the specific process and control device operating parameter being monitored.

(4) An owner or operator may request approval to use an automated data compression recording system that does not record monitored operating parameter values at a set frequency (for example, once every 15 minutes) but records all values that meet set criteria for variation from previously recorded values.

(i) The requested system shall be designed to perform the following functions:

(A) Measure the operating parameter value at least once every 15 minutes;

(B) Record at least four values each hour during periods of operation;

(C) Record the date and time when monitors are turned off or on;

(D) Recognize unchanging data that may indicate the monitor is not functioning properly, alert the operator, and record the incident; and

(E) Compute daily average values of the monitored operating parameter based on recorded data. If the daily average is not an excursion as defined in § 65.161(e)(2)(iv), the data for that operating day may be converted to hourly average values, and the four or more individual records for each hour in the operating day may be discarded.

(ii) The request shall contain a description of the monitoring system and data compression recording system, including the criteria used to determine which monitored values are recorded and retained, the method for calculating averages, and a demonstration that the system meets all criteria in paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) An owner or operator may request approval to use other alternative monitoring and recordkeeping systems as specified in § 65.7(b). The application shall contain a description of the proposed alternative system. In addition, the application shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for an alternative monitoring method, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the regulated source using the required method.
