
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### ยง 65.164 Performance test and flare compliance determination notifications and reports.
####### Other notifications and reports.

(b)(1) The owner or operator shall notify the Administrator of the intention to conduct a performance test at least 30 calendar days before the performance test is scheduled to allow the Administrator the opportunity to have an observer present. If after 30 days notice for an initially scheduled performance test, there is a delay (due to operational problems, etc.) in conducting the scheduled performance test, the owner or operator of an affected facility shall notify the Administrator as soon as possible of any delay in the original test date. The owner or operator shall provide at least 7 days prior notice of the rescheduled date of the performance test or arrange a rescheduled date with the Administrator by mutual agreement.

(2) Unless specified differently in this subpart or another subpart of this part, performance test and flare compliance determination reports not submitted as part of an Initial Compliance Status Report shall be submitted to the Administrator within 60 days of completing the test or determination.

(3) Any application for a waiver of an initial performance test or flare compliance determination as allowed by ยง 65.157(b)(2), shall be submitted no later than 90 calendar days before the performance test or flare compliance determination is required. The application for a waiver shall include information justifying the owner or operator's request for a waiver, such as the technical or economic infeasibility, or the impracticality, of the source performing the test.
