
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.165 Initial Compliance Status Reports.

(a) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 65.144 by routing emissions from a storage vessel or transfer rack to a process or to a fuel gas system shall submit as part of the Initial Compliance Status Report the following information, as applicable:

(1) If storage vessel emissions are routed to a process, the owner or operator shall submit the information specified in § 65.144(b)(3).

(2) As specified in § 65.144(c), if storage vessel emissions are routed to a fuel gas system, the owner or operator shall submit a statement that the emission stream is connected to a fuel gas system.

(3) As specified in § 65.144(c), report that the transfer rack emission stream is being routed to a fuel gas system or process when complying with the requirements of § 65.83(a)(4).

(b) An owner or operator who elects to comply with § 65.145 by routing emissions from a storage vessel or low-throughput transfer rack to a nonflare control device or halogen reduction device shall submit with the Initial Compliance Status Report required by § 65.5(d) the applicable information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (6) of this section. Owners and operators who elect to comply with § 65.145(b)(1)(i) or (b)(3)(i) by submitting a design evaluation shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. Owners and operators who elect to comply with § 65.145(b)(1)(ii) or (b)(3)(ii) by submitting performance test results shall submit the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), (4), and (5) of this section. Owners and operators who elect to comply with § 65.145(b)(1)(iii) or (b)(3)(iii) by submitting performance test results for a shared control device or halogen reduction device shall submit the information specified in paragraph (b)(6) of this section.

(1) A description of the parameter or parameters to be monitored to ensure that the control device or halogen reduction device is being properly operated and maintained, an explanation of the criteria used for selection of that parameter (or parameters), and the frequency with which monitoring will be performed (for example, when the liquid level in the storage vessel is being raised). If continuous records are specified, indicate whether the provisions of § 65.166(f) apply.

(2) The operating range for each monitoring parameter identified in the monitoring plan required by § 65.145(c)(1). The specified operating range shall represent the conditions for which the control device or halogen reduction device is being properly operated and maintained.

(3) The documentation specified in § 65.145(b)(1)(i), if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design evaluation; and the documentation specified in § 65.145(b)(3)(i), if the owner or operator elects to prepare a design evaluation for a halogen reduction device.

(4) The provisions of § 65.166(f) do not apply to any low-throughput transfer rack for which the owner or operator has elected to comply with § 65.145 or to any storage vessel for which the owner or operator is not required to keep continuous records, as specified by the applicable monitoring plan established under § 65.145(c)(1) and (2). If continuous records are required, the owner or operator shall specify in the monitoring plan whether the provisions of § 65.166(f) apply.

(5) A summary of the results of the performance test described in § 65.145(b)(1)(ii), (1)(iii), (3)(ii), and/or (3)(iii), as applicable. If a performance test is conducted as provided in § 65.145(b)(1)(ii) and/or (b)(3)(ii), submit the results of the performance test, including the information specified in § 65.164(a)(1) and (2).

(6) Identification of the storage vessel or low-throughput transfer rack and control device and/or halogen reduction device for which the performance test will be submitted, and identification of the emission point(s), if any, that share the control device and/or halogen reduction device with the storage vessel or low-throughput transfer rack and for which the performance test will be conducted.

(c) The owner or operator shall submit as part of the Initial Compliance Status Report the operating range for each monitoring parameter identified for each control, recovery, or halogen reduction device as determined in §§ 65.148(c)(2), 65.149(c)(2), 65.150(c)(2), 65.151(c)(2), 65.152(c)(2), 65.153(c)(5), 65.154(c)(3), and 65.155(c)(2). The specified operating range shall represent the conditions for which the control, recovery, or halogen reduction device is being properly operated and maintained. This report shall include the information in paragraphs (c)(1) through (3) of this section, as applicable, unless the range and the operating day definition have been established in the operating permit:

(1) The specific range of the monitored parameter(s) for each emission point.

(2) The rationale for the specific range for each parameter for each emission point, including any data and calculations used to develop the range and a description of why the range indicates proper operation of the control, recovery, or halogen reduction device, as specified in the following, as applicable:

(i) If a performance test or TRE index value determination is required by this subpart or another subpart of this part for a control, recovery or halogen removal device, the range shall be based on the parameter values measured during the TRE index value determination or performance test and may be supplemented by engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations. The TRE index value determinations and performance testing is not required to be conducted over the entire range of permitted parameter values.

(ii) If a performance test or TRE index value determination is not required by this subpart or other subparts of this part for a control, recovery, or halogen reduction device, the range may be based solely on engineering assessments and/or manufacturer's recommendations.

(iii) The range may be based on ranges or limits previously established under a referencing subpart.

(3) A definition of the source's operating day for purposes of determining daily average values of monitored parameters. The definition shall specify the times at which an operating day begins and ends.
