
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart M - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region X
###### Implementation Plan for the Shoshone-Bannock Tribes of the Fort Hall Indian Reservation of Idaho
####### ยง 49.10711 Federal Implementation Plan for the Astaris-Idaho LLC Facility (formerly owned by FMC Corporation) in the Fort Hall PM-10 Nonattainment Area.
######## Record keeping requirements.

(f)(1) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of all monitoring required by this section that include, at a minimum, the following information:

(i) The date, place as defined in this section, and time of the sampling or measurement.

(ii) The dates the analyses were performed.

(iii) The company or entity that performed the analyses.

(iv) The analytical techniques or methods used.

(v) The results of the analyses.

(vi) The operating conditions existing at the time of the sampling or measurement.

(2)(i) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of all inspections and all visible emissions observations required by this section or conducted pursuant to the O&M plan, which records shall include the following:

(A) The date, place, and time of the inspection or observation.

(B) The name and title of the person conducting the inspection or observation.

(C) In the case of a visible emission observation, the test method (Method 9 or visual observation), the relevant or specified meteorological conditions, and the results of the observation, including raw data and calculations. In the case of visible emission observations of slag handling (Table 1 of this section, source 8a), the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall also document whether visible emissions emanate from fuming of hot slag from pots or other points in the old slag pit area.

(D) For any corrective action required by this section or the O&M plan or taken in response to a problem identified during an inspection or visible emissions observation required by this section or the O&M plan, the time and date corrective action was initiated and completed and the nature of corrective action taken.

(E) The reason for any monitoring not conducted on schedule.

(ii) With respect to control devices, the requirement of paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section is satisfied by meeting the requirements of paragraph (f)(11) of this section.

(3) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall continuously record the parameters specified in paragraphs (e)(2), (e)(3), (e)(4), (e)(5), and (e)(7) of this section, and shall record the parameters specified in paragraphs (e)(6) of this section on the frequency specified in the monitoring plan required under paragraph (e)(6) of this section.

(4) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of all excursions from ranges approved under paragraph (e)(3) or (g)(1) of this section, including without limitation, the measured excursion, time and date of the excursion, duration of the excursion, time and date corrective action was initiated and completed, and nature of corrective action taken.

(5) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of:

(i) The time, date, and duration of each pressure release from a furnace pressure relief vent (Table 1 of this section, source 24), the method of detecting the release, the results of the inspection required by paragraph (e)(7) of this section, and any actions taken to ensure resealing, including the time and date of such actions; and

(ii) The time, date, and duration of the steaming and draining of the pressure relief vent drop tank.

(6) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of the time, date, and duration of each flaring of the emergency CO flares (Table 1 of this section, source 25) due to an emergency, the method of detecting the emergency, and all corrective action taken in response to the emergency.

(7) Until January 1, 2001, the owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of the date and start/stop time of each mini-flush; the phossy water flow rate and outlet temperature immediately preceding the start time; whether the operating parameters for conducting the mini-flush set forth in paragraph (c)(5)(ii) of this section were met; and, if the parameters were not met, whether the failure to comply with the parameters was attributable to a malfunction or emergency.

(8) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of the application of dust suppressants to all storage piles, roads, staging areas, parking lots, and any other area, including the purchase of dust suppressants, the identification of the surface covered, type of dust suppressant used, the application rate (gallons per square foot), and date of application.

(9) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of the frequency of sweeping of all roads, staging areas, parking lots, and any other area, including the identification of the surface swept and date and duration of sweeping.

(10) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep the following records with respect to the main shale pile (Table 1 of this section, source 2) and emergency/contingency raw ore shale pile (Table 1 of this section, source 3):

(i) The date and time of each reforming of the pile or portion of the pile.

(ii) The date, time, and quantity of latex applied.

(11) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep a log for each control device of all inspections of and maintenance on the control device, including without limitation the following information:

(i) The date, place, and time of the inspection or maintenance activity.

(ii) The name and title of the person conducting the inspection or maintenance activity.

(iii) The condition of the control device at the time.

(iv) For any corrective action required by this section or the O&M plan or taken in response to a problem identified during an inspection required by this section or the O&M plan, the time and date corrective action was initiated and completed, and the nature of corrective action taken.

(v) A description of, reason for, and the date of all maintenance activities, including without limitation any bag replacements.

(vi) The reason any monitoring was not conducted on schedule, including a description of any monitoring malfunction, and the reason any required data was not collected.

(12) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep the following records:

(i) The Method 9 initial certification and recertification for all individuals conducting visual emissions observations using Method 9 as required by this section.

(ii) Evidence that all individuals conducting visual observations as required by this section meet the training guidelines described in section 1 of Method 22, 40 CFR part 60, appendix A.

(13) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records on the type and quantity of fuel used in the boilers (Table 1 of this section, source 23), including without limitation the date of any change in the type of fuel used.

(14) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of the results of the daily monitoring of the water quality of the scrubber water in the calciner scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, source 9a) and the Medusa-Andersen furnace scrubbers (Table 1 of this section, sources 18d, 18e, 18f, and 18g) as specified in the O&M plan.

(15) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep records of the time, date, and duration of each damper vent opening for the furnace building east and west baghouses (Table 1 of this section, sources 18a and 18b), the reason for the damper vent opening, and all corrective action taken in response to the damper vent opening.

(16) The owner or operator of the Astaris-Idaho facility shall keep a copy of all reports required to be submitted to EPA under paragraph (g) of this section.

(17) All records required to be maintained by this section and records of all required monitoring data and support information shall be maintained on site at the Astaris-Idaho facility in a readily accessible location for a period of at least five years from the date of the monitoring sample, measurement, report, or record.

(i) Such records shall be made available to EPA on request.

(ii) Support information includes all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation.
