
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.164 Performance test and flare compliance determination notifications and reports.
####### Performance test and flare compliance determination reports.

(a)Performance test reports and flare compliance determination reports shall be submitted as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) For performance tests or flare compliance determinations, the Initial Compliance Status Report or report required by paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall include one complete test report as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for each test method used for a particular kind of emission point, and other applicable information specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. For additional tests performed for the same kind of emission point using the same method, the results and any other information required in applicable sections of this subpart or in other subparts of this part shall be submitted, but a complete test report is not required.

(2) A complete test report shall include a brief process description, sampling site description, description of sampling and analysis procedures and any modifications to standard procedures, quality assurance procedures, record of operating conditions during the test, record of preparation of standards, record of calibrations, raw data sheets for field sampling, raw data sheets for field and laboratory analyses, documentation of calculations, and any other information required by the test method.

(3) The performance test or flare compliance determination report shall also include the following information, as applicable:

(i) For flare compliance determinations, the owner or operator shall submit the records specified in § 65.159(b).

(ii) For nonflare combustion device and halogen reduction device performance tests as required under § 65.148(b), § 65.149(b), § 65.150(b), § 65.151(b), § 65.152(b), § 65.154(b), or § 65.155(b), the owner or operator shall submit the applicable records specified in § 65.160(b).

(iii) For Group 2A process vents, the owner or operator shall submit the records specified in § 65.160(c), as applicable.
