
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 65 - CONSOLIDATED FEDERAL AIR RULE
##### Subpart G - Closed Vent Systems, Control Devices, and Routing to a Fuel Gas System or a Process
###### § 65.163 Other records.
####### Equipment leak records.

(d)The owner or operator shall maintain records of the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for closed vent systems and control devices subject to the provisions of subpart F of this part. The owner or operator shall meet the record retention requirements of § 65.4, except the records specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be kept as long as the equipment is in operation.

(1) The following design specifications and performance demonstrations:

(i) Detailed schematics, design specifications of the control device, and piping and instrumentation diagrams.

(ii) The dates and descriptions of any changes in the design specifications.

(iii) A description of the parameter or parameters monitored as required in § 65.146(c) to ensure that control devices are operated and maintained in conformance with their design, and an explanation of why that parameter (or parameters) was selected for the monitoring.

(2) The following records of operation of closed vent systems and control devices:

(i) Dates and durations when the closed vent systems and control devices required in § 65.115(b) are not operated as designed as indicated by the monitored parameters, including periods when a flare flame or at least one pilot flame is not present.

(ii) Dates and durations during which the monitoring system or monitoring device is inoperative.

(iii) Dates and durations of startups and shutdowns of control devices required in § 65.115(b).
