
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 66 - ASSESSMENT AND COLLECTION OF NONCOMPLIANCE PENALTIES BY EPA
##### Subpart H - Compliance and Final Adjustment
###### § 66.72 Additional payment or reimbursement.

(a) Within 120 days after the source owner or operator receives notification pursuant to § 66.71(b) that it has achieved and is maintaining compliance with applicable legal requirements, or within 120 days after receipt of a decision to that effect upon petition and hearing, or within 120 days after receipt of a decision to that effect upon an appeal to the Environmental Appeals Board, the source owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a revised penalty calculation as provided in the Technical Support Document and the Manual, together with data necessary for verification. The revised calculation shall include interest on any underpayment.

(b) Within thirty days after receiving a revised penalty calculation provided pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the Administrator shall inform the source owner or operator in writing that:

(1) The revised penalty is correct as calculated;

(2) The revised penalty is incorrect and has been recalculated based on the data provided by the source owner or operator or on other data. The Administrator shall provide to the source owner or operator a brief statement of the basis of the recalculation and shall identify when and where any supporting data may be examined. The Administrator shall also notify the source owner or operator of the right to petition for reconsideration under § 66.73; or

(3) The source owner or operator has not submitted any penalty calculation, or has not submitted enough material to enable EPA to verify the penalty calculation. The Administrator shall specify what deficiencies exist and shall require the source owner or operator to furnish the supplemental material within thirty days of receipt of the notice. The supplemental material submitted will be evaluated in the same manner as the original submittal.

(c) If a source owner or operator fails to submit or to complete a revised penalty calculation when due under this section or the calculation submitted is incorrect, the Administrator may recalculate the penalty or may enter into a contract for independent calculation of the penalty as provided in § 66.22.

(d) Within 120 days after the source owner or operator receives notification pursuant to § 66.71(d) that the period of covered noncompliance ended on the date the applicable legal requirement was superseded (or, in event of EPA delay past an applicable statutory deadline, on the date the applicable legal requirement would have been superseded if there had been no delay past the statutory deadline), the source owner or operator shall submit to the Administrator a revised penalty calculation as provided in the Technical Support Document and Manual together with data necessary for verification. The revised calculation shall include interest on any underpayment. Paragraphs (b) and (c) shall apply to calculations submitted under this paragraph.
