
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 67 - EPA APPROVAL OF STATE NONCOMPLIANCE PENALTY PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - EPA Review of State Compliance or Exemption Decisions
###### § 67.32 Procedure where no formal State hearing was held.

(a) In reviewing a decision that a source is in compliance with applicable legal requirements or entitled to an exemption for which no hearing conforming to § 67.11(b) (4) or (6) was held, the Administrator shall evaluate the accuracy and adequacy of the documents transmitted to him pursuant to § 67.11(b)(5) and shall invite submission of comments on issues identified by him as relevant to his review.

(b) If the Administrator concludes that no hearing need have been held and that the State determination was correct, he shall notify the State, the source owner or operator, and other participants of his determination, which shall constitute final agency action by EPA under authority of section 120. If the Administrator concludes that the petition of the source owner or operator presented information which, if true, would have altered the owner or operator's liability for a penalty, he shall upon notice to the State or local agent schedule a hearing in accordance with subpart E of part 66. Such notice shall operate as a withdrawal of EPA's delegation of authority to the State or local agent over the facility in question unless the State or local agent schedules a hearing within 15 days of receipt of the notice.

(c) If the Administrator concludes that the State determination did not conform to the requirements of the Act or of part 66 (as modified by § 67.11), he shall by written notice revoke the determination. Such revocation shall operate as a withdrawal of EPA's delegation of authority to the State or local agent over the facility in question. The source owner or operator may then petition for review of the Administrator's decision pursuant to the provisions of § 66.13.

(d) Unless otherwise provided in the Administrator's notice to the State or local agent, any noncompliance penalties owed by the source owner or operator shall be paid to the State or local agent. The Administrator shall send a copy of this notice to the source owner or operator.
