
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 67 - EPA APPROVAL OF STATE NONCOMPLIANCE PENALTY PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - EPA Review of State Compliance or Exemption Decisions
###### § 67.33 Procedure where a formal State hearing was held.

(a) In reviewing a decision that a source is in compliance with applicable legal requirements or is entitled to an exemption for which a hearing conforming to § 67.11(b) (4) or (6) was held, the Administrator may invite comment on issues identified by him as relevant to his review and shall propose or make findings as to the correctness of the determination and the accuracy and adequacy of the material transmitted pursuant to § 67.11(b)(5).

(b) The Administrator shall notify all participants in the State hearing of his findings and conclusions. If the Administrator concludes that the State determination conformed to the requirements of the Act and of part 66 (as modified by § 66.11), the Administrator's determination shall constitute final administrative action by EPA under authority of Section 120. If the Administrator finds that the State determination did not conform to the requirements of the Act and of part 66 (as modified by § 67.11), the findings shall constitute proposed findings and the notice shall invite participants to file exceptions thereto. If the Administrator considers it desirable, he may schedule a time for argument.

(c) Within 60 days of receipt of any briefs or exceptions or after oral argument pursuant to paragraph (b), the Administrator shall affirm, modify, or revoke his proposed findings that the State's determination did not conform to the requirements of the Act or of part 66 (as modified by § 67.11). The decision shall be in writing. Notice and a copy of the decision shall be provided to the source owner or operator and to all other participants in the State hearing. The decision shall constitute a final administrative action by EPA under authority of section 120.

(d) If the Administrator finds that deficiencies in the hearing record prevent him from determining whether the determination of the State or local agent conformed to the requirements of the Act and part 66 (as modified by § 67.11), he shall notify the State or local agent of his finding and specify what deficiencies exist and schedule a hearing pursuant to subpart E of part 66. Such notice shall operate as a withdrawal of EPA's delegation of authority to the State or local agent over the facility in question unless the State or local agent schedules a supplemental hearing to correct the deficiencies within 15 days of receipt of the notice.

(e) If the Administrator concludes that the source is in violation of applicable legal requirements or is not entitled to an exemption, or both, and unless otherwise ordered in the decision, the source owner or operator shall submit a penalty calculation to the State within 45 days of receipt of the notice of determination.
