
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 67 - EPA APPROVAL OF STATE NONCOMPLIANCE PENALTY PROGRAM
##### Subpart E - EPA Review of State Penalty Assessments
###### § 67.43 Procedure where a formal State hearing was held.

(a) In reviewing a penalty calculation for which a hearing conforming to § 67.11(b)(4) was held, the Administrator may invite comment on issues identified by him as relevant to his review and shall propose or make findings as to the correctness of the determination and shall evaluate the accuracy and adequacy of the material transmitted pursuant to § 67.11(b)(5).

(b) The Administrator shall notify all participants in the State hearing of his findings and conclusions. If the Administrator finds that the State determination conformed to the requirements of the Act, part 66 (as modified by § 67.11), the Technical Support Document, and the Instruction Manual, his determination shall constitute a final action pursuant to section 120. If the Administrator finds that the State determination did not conform to the requirements of the Act or of part 66 (as modified by § 67.11) or to the Technical Support Document or Instruction Manual, the findings shall constitute proposed findings, and the notice shall invite participants to file exceptions to his proposed findings and, if necessary, schedule a time for argument.

(c) Within 60 days of receipt of any briefs or exceptions or after oral argument, the Administrator shall affirm, modify, or revoke his proposed findings that the State or local agent's determination did not conform to the requirements of the Act or of part 66 (as modified by § 67.11) or the Technical Support Document or Instruction Manual. The decision shall be in writing. Notice and a copy of the decision, which shall constitute final administrative action by EPA pursuant to section 120, shall be provided to the source owner or operator and to all other participants in the State hearing.

(d) If the Administrator finds that deficiencies in the State or local agent's hearing record prevent him from determining whether the State or local agent's determination conformed to the requirements of the Act and part 66 (as modified by § 67.11) or the Technical Support Document or Instruction Manual, he shall notify the State or local agent of his decision and specify what dificiencies exist and schedule a hearing in accordance with subpart F of part 66. Such notice shall operate to withdraw EPA's delegation of authority to the State or local agent over the facility in question unless the State or local agent within 15 days schedules a supplemental hearing to correct the deficiencies.

(e) Unless otherwise provided in the Administrator's notice to the State or local agent, any noncompliance penalties owed by the source owner or operator shall be paid to the State or local agent.
