
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 68.12 General requirements.

(a) General requirements. The owner or operator of a stationary source subject to this part shall submit a single RMP, as provided in §§ 68.150 to 68.185. The RMP shall include a registration that reflects all covered processes.

(b) Program 1 requirements. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of a stationary source with a process eligible for Program 1, as provided in § 68.10(g), shall:

(1) Analyze the worst-case release scenario for the process(es), as provided in § 68.25; document that the nearest public receptor is beyond the distance to a toxic or flammable endpoint defined in § 68.22(a); and submit in the RMP the worst-case release scenario as provided in § 68.165;

(2) Complete the five-year accident history for the process as provided in § 68.42 of this part and submit it in the RMP as provided in § 68.168;

(3) Ensure that response actions have been coordinated with local emergency planning and response agencies; and

(4) Certify in the RMP the following: "Based on the criteria in 40 CFR 68.10, the distance to the specified endpoint for the worst-case accidental release scenario for the following process(es) is less than the distance to the nearest public receptor: [list process(es)]. Within the past five years, the process(es) has (have) had no accidental release that caused offsite impacts provided in the risk management program rule (40 CFR 68.10(g)(1)). No additional measures are necessary to prevent offsite impacts from accidental releases. In the event of fire, explosion, or a release of a regulated substance from the process(es), entry within the distance to the specified endpoints may pose a danger to public emergency responders. Therefore, public emergency responders should not enter this area except as arranged with the emergency contact indicated in the RMP. The undersigned certifies that, to the best of my knowledge, information, and belief, formed after reasonable inquiry, the information submitted is true, accurate, and complete. [Signature, title, date signed]."

(c) Program 2 requirements. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of a stationary source with a process subject to Program 2, as provided in § 68.10(h), shall:

(1) Develop and implement a management system as provided in § 68.15;

(2) Conduct a hazard assessment as provided in §§ 68.20 through 68.42;

(3) Implement the Program 2 prevention steps provided in §§ 68.48 through 68.60 or implement the Program 3 prevention steps provided in §§ 68.65 through 68.87;

(4) Coordinate response actions with local emergency planning and response agencies as provided in § 68.93;

(5) Develop and implement an emergency response program, and conduct exercises, as provided in §§ 68.90 to 68.96; and

(6) Submit as part of the RMP the data on prevention program elements for Program 2 processes as provided in § 68.170.

(d) Program 3 requirements. In addition to meeting the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section, the owner or operator of a stationary source with a process subject to Program 3, as provided in § 68.10(i) shall:

(1) Develop and implement a management system as provided in § 68.15;

(2) Conduct a hazard assessment as provided in §§ 68.20 through 68.42;

(3) Implement the prevention requirements of §§ 68.65 through 68.87;

(4) Coordinate response actions with local emergency planning and response agencies as provided in § 68.93;

(5) Develop and implement an emergency response program, and conduct exercises, as provided in §§ 68.90 to 68.96; and

(6) Submit as part of the RMP the data on prevention program elements for Program 3 processes as provided in § 68.175.
