
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Hazard Assessment
###### ยง 68.22 Offsite consequence analysis parameters.

(a) Endpoints. For analyses of offsite consequences, the following endpoints shall be used:

(1) Toxics. The toxic endpoints provided in appendix A of this part.

(2) Flammables. The endpoints for flammables vary according to the scenarios studied:

(i) Explosion. An overpressure of 1 psi.

(ii) Radiant heat/exposure time. A radiant heat of 5 kw/mfor 40 seconds.

(iii) Lower flammability limit. A lower flammability limit as provided in NFPA documents or other generally recognized sources.

(b) Wind speed/atmospheric stability class. For the worst-case release analysis, the owner or operator shall use a wind speed of 1.5 meters per second and F atmospheric stability class. If the owner or operator can demonstrate that local meteorological data applicable to the stationary source show a higher minimum wind speed or less stable atmosphere at all times during the previous three years, these minimums may be used. For analysis of alternative scenarios, the owner or operator may use the typical meteorological conditions for the stationary source.

(c) Ambient temperature/humidity. For worst-case release analysis of a regulated toxic substance, the owner or operator shall use the highest daily maximum temperature in the previous three years and average humidity for the site, based on temperature/humidity data gathered at the stationary source or at a local meteorological station; an owner or operator using the RMP Offsite Consequence Analysis Guidance may use 25 &#xB0;C and 50 percent humidity as values for these variables. For analysis of alternative scenarios, the owner or operator may use typical temperature/humidity data gathered at the stationary source or at a local meteorological station.

(d) Height of release. The worst-case release of a regulated toxic substance shall be analyzed assuming a ground level (0 feet) release. For an alternative scenario analysis of a regulated toxic substance, release height may be determined by the release scenario.

(e) Surface roughness. The owner or operator shall use either urban or rural topography, as appropriate. Urban means that there are many obstacles in the immediate area; obstacles include buildings or trees. Rural means there are no buildings in the immediate area and the terrain is generally flat and unobstructed.

(f) Dense or neutrally buoyant gases. The owner or operator shall ensure that tables or models used for dispersion analysis of regulated toxic substances appropriately account for gas density.

(g) Temperature of released substance. For worst case, liquids other than gases liquified by refrigeration only shall be considered to be released at the highest daily maximum temperature, based on data for the previous three years appropriate for the stationary source, or at process temperature, whichever is higher. For alternative scenarios, substances may be considered to be released at a process or ambient temperature that is appropriate for the scenario.
