
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 68.10 Applicability.
####### Program 1 eligibility requirements.

(g)A covered process is eligible for Program 1 requirements as provided in § 68.12(b) if it meets all of the following requirements:

(1) For the five years prior to the submission of an RMP, the process has not had an accidental release of a regulated substance where exposure to the substance, its reaction products, overpressure generated by an explosion involving the substance, or radiant heat generated by a fire involving the substance led to any of the following offsite:

(i) Death;

(ii) Injury; or

(iii) Response or restoration activities for an exposure of an environmental receptor;

(2) The distance to a toxic or flammable endpoint for a worst-case release assessment conducted under subpart B and § 68.25 is less than the distance to any public receptor, as defined in § 68.3; and

(3) Emergency response procedures have been coordinated between the stationary source and local emergency planning and response organizations.

(h) Program 2 eligibility requirements. A covered process is subject to Program 2 requirements if it does not meet the eligibility requirements of either paragraph (g) or paragraph (i) of this section.

(i) Program 3 eligibility requirements. A covered process is subject to Program 3 if the process does not meet the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section, and if either of the following conditions is met:

(1) The process is in NAICS code 32211, 32411, 32511, 325181, 325188, 325192, 325199, 325211, 325311, or 32532; or

(2) The process is subject to the OSHA process safety management standard, 29 CFR 1910.119.

(j) If at any time a covered process no longer meets the eligibility criteria of its Program level, the owner or operator shall comply with the requirements of the new Program level that applies to the process and update the RMP as provided in § 68.190.

(k) The provisions of this part shall not apply to an Outer Continental Shelf ("OCS") source, as defined in 40 CFR 55.2.
