
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart B - Hazard Assessment
###### ยง 68.25 Worst-case release scenario analysis.
####### Worst-case release scenario-flammable gases.

(e)The owner or operator shall assume that the quantity of the substance, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section and the provisions below, vaporizes resulting in a vapor cloud explosion. A yield factor of 10 percent of the available energy released in the explosion shall be used to determine the distance to the explosion endpoint if the model used is based on TNT equivalent methods.

(1) For regulated flammable substances that are normally gases at ambient temperature and handled as a gas or as a liquid under pressure, the owner or operator shall assume that the quantity in the vessel or pipe, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section, is released as a gas over 10 minutes. The total quantity shall be assumed to be involved in the vapor cloud explosion.

(2) For flammable gases handled as refrigerated liquids at ambient pressure:

(i) If the released substance is not contained by passive mitigation systems or if the contained pool would have a depth of one centimeter or less, the owner or operator shall assume that the total quantity of the substance is released as a gas in 10 minutes, and the total quantity will be involved in the vapor cloud explosion.

(ii) If the released substance is contained by passive mitigation systems in a pool with a depth greater than 1 centimeter, the owner or operator may assume that the quantity in the vessel or pipe, as determined under paragraph (b) of this section, is spilled instantaneously to form a liquid pool. The volatilization rate (release rate) shall be calculated at the boiling point of the substance and at the conditions specified in paragraph (d) of this section. The owner or operator shall assume that the quantity which becomes vapor in the first 10 minutes is involved in the vapor cloud explosion.
