
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart D - Program 3 Prevention Program
###### ยง 68.69 Operating procedures.

(a) The owner or operator shall develop and implement written operating procedures that provide clear instructions for safely conducting activities involved in each covered process consistent with the process safety information and shall address at least the following elements.

(1) Steps for each operating phase:

(i) Initial startup;

(ii) Normal operations;

(iii) Temporary operations;

(iv) Emergency shutdown including the conditions under which emergency shutdown is required, and the assignment of shutdown responsibility to qualified operators to ensure that emergency shutdown is executed in a safe and timely manner.

(v) Emergency operations;

(vi) Normal shutdown; and,

(vii) Startup following a turnaround, or after an emergency shutdown.

(2) Operating limits:

(i) Consequences of deviation; and

(ii) Steps required to correct or avoid deviation.

(3) Safety and health considerations:

(i) Properties of, and hazards presented by, the chemicals used in the process;

(ii) Precautions necessary to prevent exposure, including engineering controls, administrative controls, and personal protective equipment;

(iii) Control measures to be taken if physical contact or airborne exposure occurs;

(iv) Quality control for raw materials and control of hazardous chemical inventory levels; and,

(v) Any special or unique hazards.

(4) Safety systems and their functions.

(b) Operating procedures shall be readily accessible to employees who work in or maintain a process.

(c) The operating procedures shall be reviewed as often as necessary to assure that they reflect current operating practice, including changes that result from changes in process chemicals, technology, and equipment, and changes to stationary sources. The owner or operator shall certify annually that these operating procedures are current and accurate.

(d) The owner or operator shall develop and implement safe work practices to provide for the control of hazards during operations such as lockout/tagout; confined space entry; opening process equipment or piping; and control over entrance into a stationary source by maintenance, contractor, laboratory, or other support personnel. These safe work practices shall apply to employees and contractor employees.
