
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart F - Regulated Substances for Accidental Release Prevention
###### ยง 68.115 Threshold determination.
####### Concentrations of a regulated flammable substance in a mixture.,General provision.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(2)(i)If a regulated substance is present in a mixture and the concentration of the substance is below one percent by weight of the mixture, the mixture need not be considered when determining whether more than a threshold quantity of the regulated substance is present at the stationary source. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) (ii) and (iii) of this section, if the concentration of the substance is one percent or greater by weight of the mixture, then, for purposes of determining whether a threshold quantity is present at the stationary source, the entire weight of the mixture shall be treated as the regulated substance unless the owner or operator can demonstrate that the mixture itself does not have a National Fire Protection Association flammability hazard rating of 4. The demonstration shall be in accordance with the definition of flammability hazard rating 4 in the NFPA 704, Standard System for the Identification of the Hazards of Materials for Emergency Response, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 1996. Available from the National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269-9101. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency Air Docket (6102), Attn: Docket No. A-96-O8, Waterside Mall, 401 M. St. SW., Washington DC; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:Boiling point and flash point shall be defined and determined in accordance with NFPA 30, Flammable and Combustible Liquids Code, National Fire Protection Association, Quincy, MA, 1996. Available from the National Fire Protection Association, 1 Batterymarch Park, Quincy, MA 02269-9101. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies may be inspected at the Environmental Protection Agency Air Docket (6102), Attn: Docket No. A-96-O8, Waterside Mall, 401 M. St. SW., Washington DC; or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:The owner or operator shall document the National Fire Protection Association flammability hazard rating.
