
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart F - Regulated Substances for Accidental Release Prevention
###### ยง 68.120 Petition process.

(a) Any person may petition the Administrator to modify, by addition or deletion, the list of regulated substances identified in ยง 68.130. Based on the information presented by the petitioner, the Administrator may grant or deny a petition.

(b) A substance may be added to the list if, in the case of an accidental release, it is known to cause or may be reasonably anticipated to cause death, injury, or serious adverse effects to human health or the environment.

(c) A substance may be deleted from the list if adequate data on the health and environmental effects of the substance are available to determine that the substance, in the case of an accidental release, is not known to cause and may not be reasonably anticipated to cause death, injury, or serious adverse effects to human health or the environment.

(d) No substance for which a national primary ambient air quality standard has been established shall be added to the list. No substance regulated under title VI of the Clean Air Act, as amended, shall be added to the list.

(e) The burden of proof is on the petitioner to demonstrate that the criteria for addition and deletion are met. A petition will be denied if this demonstration is not made.

(f) The Administrator will not accept additional petitions on the same substance following publication of a final notice of the decision to grant or deny a petition, unless new data becomes available that could significantly affect the basis for the decision.

(g) Petitions to modify the list of regulated substances must contain the following:

(1) Name and address of the petitioner and a brief description of the organization(s) that the petitioner represents, if applicable;

(2) Name, address, and telephone number of a contact person for the petition;

(3) Common chemical name(s), common synonym(s), Chemical Abstracts Service number, and chemical formula and structure;

(4) Action requested (add or delete a substance);

(5) Rationale supporting the petitioner's position; that is, how the substance meets the criteria for addition and deletion. A short summary of the rationale must be submitted along with a more detailed narrative; and

(6) Supporting data; that is, the petition must include sufficient information to scientifically support the request to modify the list. Such information shall include:

(i) A list of all support documents;

(ii) Documentation of literature searches conducted, including, but not limited to, identification of the database(s) searched, the search strategy, dates covered, and printed results;

(iii) Effects data (animal, human, and environmental test data) indicating the potential for death, injury, or serious adverse human and environmental impacts from acute exposure following an accidental release; printed copies of the data sources, in English, should be provided; and

(iv) Exposure data or previous accident history data, indicating the potential for serious adverse human health or environmental effects from an accidental release. These data may include, but are not limited to, physical and chemical properties of the substance, such as vapor pressure; modeling results, including data and assumptions used and model documentation; and historical accident data, citing data sources.

(h) Within 18 months of receipt of a petition, the Administrator shall publish in thea notice either denying the petition or granting the petition and proposing a listing.
