
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart G - Risk Management Plan
###### § 68.150 Submission.

(a) The owner or operator shall submit a single RMP that includes the information required by §§ 68.155 through 68.185 for all covered processes. The RMP shall be submitted in the method and format to the central point specified by EPA as of the date of submission.

(b) The owner or operator shall submit the first RMP no later than the latest of the following dates:

(1) June 21, 1999;

(2) Three years after the date on which a regulated substance is first listed under § 68.130; or

(3) The date on which a regulated substance is first present above a threshold quantity in a process.

(c) The owner or operator of any stationary source for which an RMP was submitted before June 21, 2004, shall revise the RMP to include the information required by § 68.160(b)(6) and (14) by June 21, 2004 in the manner specified by EPA prior to that date. Any such submission shall also include the information required by § 68.160(b)(20) (indicating that the submission is a correction to include the information required by § 68.160(b)(6) and (14) or an update under § 68.190).

(d) RMPs submitted under this section shall be updated and corrected in accordance with §§ 68.190 and 68.195.

(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of §§ 68.155 to 68.190, the RMP shall exclude classified information. Subject to appropriate procedures to protect such information from public disclosure, classified data or information excluded from the RMP may be made available in a classified annex to the RMP for review by Federal and state representatives who have received the appropriate security clearances.

(f) Procedures for asserting that information submitted in the RMP is entitled to protection as confidential business information are set forth in §§ 68.151 and 68.152.
