
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 69 - SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CLEAN AIR ACT
##### Subpart A - Guam
###### ยง 69.13 Title V conditional exemption.
####### Conditional exemption.

(a)In response to a petition submitted by the Governor of Guam and pursuant to section 325(a) of the Clean Air Act (Act), the Administrator of the United States EPA (EPA) grants the following conditional exemptions:

(1) Guam is exempted from the requirement to develop, submit for approval, and implement an operating permit program under title V of the Clean Air Act on the condition that Guam meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section.

(2) Except for sources listed under paragraph (a)(4) of this section, owners or operators of sources located in Guam subject to the operating permit requirements of title V of the Clean Air Act are exempt from the requirement to apply for and obtain a title V operating permit, on the condition that the owner or operator of each such source must apply for and obtain an operating permit under an EPA approved alternate program that meets the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section and subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section. The owner or operator of each such source shall apply for and obtain a permit under the alternate operating permit program by the deadlines set forth in the approved program, but in any event shall obtain a permit no later than January 13, 2003. If the owner or operator of any source has not obtained an operating permit under an alternate operating program approved by EPA for Guam by January 13, 2003, the exemption for such source shall expire and the owner or operator of such source shall become subject to the permitting requirements of 40 CFR part 71 on that date, consistent with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(3) Upon EPA approval of an alternate operating permit program adopted by Guam in accordance with this ยง 69.13, a person shall not violate any permit condition or term in a permit that has been issued under such alternate permit program.

(4) This exemption does not apply to owners or operators of major sources of hazardous air pollutants (HAPs) as defined under section 112 of the Clean Air Act or to owners or operators of solid waste incinerators subject to the title V requirements of section 129(e) of the Act. Owners or operators of major sources of HAPs or solid waste incinerators shall be subject to the requirements of 40 CFR part 71 and shall apply for and obtain a part 71 permit by the deadlines specified in 40 CFR part 71. Any owner or operator of a major source of HAPs subject to 40 CFR part 63, subpart B, shall submit a timely part 71 permit application as required by 40 CFR part 71 and 40 CFR part 63, subpart B, requesting a case-by-case section 112(g) or 112(j) Maximum Achievable Control Technology (MACT) determination.
