
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 68 - CHEMICAL ACCIDENT PREVENTION PROVISIONS
##### Subpart H - Other Requirements
###### ยง 68.220 Audits.

(a) In addition to inspections for the purpose of regulatory development and enforcement of the Act, the implementing agency shall periodically audit RMPs submitted under subpart G of this part to review the adequacy of such RMPs and require revisions of RMPs when necessary to ensure compliance with subpart G of this part.

(b) The implementing agency shall select stationary sources for audits based on any of the following criteria:

(1) Accident history of the stationary source;

(2) Accident history of other stationary sources in the same industry;

(3) Quantity of regulated substances present at the stationary source;

(4) Location of the stationary source and its proximity to the public and environmental receptors;

(5) The presence of specific regulated substances;

(6) The hazards identified in the RMP; and

(7) A plan providing for neutral, random oversight.

(c) Exemption from audits. A stationary source with a Star or Merit ranking under OSHA's voluntary protection program shall be exempt from audits under paragraph (b)(2) and (b)(7) of this section.

(d) The implementing agency shall have access to the stationary source, supporting documentation, and any area where an accidental release could occur.

(e) Based on the audit, the implementing agency may issue the owner or operator of a stationary source a written preliminary determination of necessary revisions to the stationary source's RMP to ensure that the RMP meets the criteria of subpart G of this part. The preliminary determination shall include an explanation for the basis for the revisions, reflecting industry standards and guidelines (such as AIChE/CCPS guidelines and ASME and API standards) to the extent that such standards and guidelines are applicable, and shall include a timetable for their implementation.
