
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 69 - SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CLEAN AIR ACT
##### Subpart C - Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
###### ยง 69.32 Title V conditional exemption.
####### Expiration and revocation of the exemption.

(e)This exemption shall expire or may be revoked under the following circumstances:

(1) If CNMI fails to submit the required alternate operating permit program or any required SIP revision by January 13, 1999, the exemption shall automatically expire with no further rulemaking and 40 CFR part 71 shall become effective for all subject sources in CNMI on that date, consistent with paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) In the event that EPA disapproves CNMI's alternate operating permit program because the program does not meet the requirements set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, EPA will revoke the exemption by rulemaking.

(3) If, by January 13, 2003, the owner or operator of any subject source has not obtained a federally enforceable operating permit under an EPA approved program, the exemption shall automatically expire for such source and such source shall be subject to the permitting requirements of 40 CFR part 71. CNMI will work with EPA to identify such sources prior to expiration of the exemption under this paragraph (e).

(4) EPA shall revoke the exemption in its entirety through rulemaking if CNMI does not adequately administer and enforce an alternate operating permit program approved by EPA.

(5) EPA shall revoke the exemption by rulemaking with respect to the owner or operator of any source if, during the 45-day review period, EPA objects to issuance of a permit and CNMI fails to resolve EPA's objections within 180 days. EPA shall also revoke the exemption by rulemaking for the owner or operator of any source in the event that EPA reopens a permit for cause and CNMI does not issue a permit that resolves the concerns as set forth in EPA's notice to reopen within 180 days.

(6) EPA reserves its authority to revoke or modify this exemption in whole or in part.
