
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 69 - SPECIAL EXEMPTIONS FROM REQUIREMENTS OF THE CLEAN AIR ACT
##### Subpart C - Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands
###### ยง 69.32 Title V conditional exemption.
####### Ambient air quality program.

(c)CNMI shall implement the following program to protect attainment of National Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) as a condition of the waiver:

(1) CNMI shall enforce its January 19, 1987 Air Pollution Control (APC) regulations, including the requirement that all new or modified sources comply with the NAAQS and Prevention of Significant Deterioration (PSD) increments.

(2) CNMI may conduct air emissions modeling, using EPA guidelines, for power plants located on Saipan to assess EPA's preliminary determination of non-compliance with the NAAQS for sulfur dioxide (SO). CNMI shall complete and submit any additional modeling to EPA by January 13, 1998 to determine whether existing power plants cause or contribute to violation of the NAAQS and PSD increments in the APC regulations and 40 CFR 52.21.

(3) If CNMI's additional modeling, based on EPA guidelines, predicts exceedances of the NAAQS for SO, or if CNMI elects to accept EPA's preliminary determination that the NAAQS for SOhave been exceeded, CNMI shall submit a revised SIP that ensures compliance with the NAAQS for SO. CNMI shall submit the proposed revision to the SIP by January 13, 1998 or, if CNMI elects to conduct additional modeling, by January 13, 1999. CNMI shall take appropriate corrective actions through the SIP to demonstrate compliance with the NAAQS for SOby January 15, 2001.
