
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.1 Program overview.
###### et seq.

(a) The regulations in this part provide for the establishment of comprehensive State air quality permitting systems consistent with the requirements of title V of the Clean Air Act (Act) (42 U.S.C. 7401,). These regulations define the minimum elements required by the Act for State operating permit programs and the corresponding standards and procedures by which the Administrator will approve, oversee, and withdraw approval of State operating permit programs.

(b) All sources subject to these regulations shall have a permit to operate that assures compliance by the source with all applicable requirements. While title V does not impose substantive new requirements, it does require that fees be imposed on sources and that certain procedural measures be adopted especially with respect to compliance.

(c) Nothing in this part shall prevent a State, or interstate permitting authority, from establishing additional or more stringent requirements not inconsistent with this Act. The EPA will approve State program submittals to the extent that they are not inconsistent with the Act and these regulations. No permit, however, can be less stringent than necessary to meet all applicable requirements. In the case of Federal intervention in the permit process, the Administrator reserves the right to implement the State operating permit program, in whole or in part, or the Federal program contained in regulations promulgated under title V of the Act.

(d) The requirements of part 70, including provisions regarding schedules for submission and approval or disapproval of permit applications, shall apply to the permitting of affected sources under the acid rain program, except as provided herein or modified in regulations promulgated under title IV of the Act (acid rain program).

(e) Issuance of State permits under this part may be coordinated with issuance of permits under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and under the Clean Water Act, whether issued by the State, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), or the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers.

(f) States that choose to receive electronic documents must satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR Part 3-(Electronic reporting) in their program.
