
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### § 70.4 State program submittals and transition.
###### Elements of the initial program submission.

(b)Any State that seeks to administer a program under this part shall submit to the Administrator a letter of submittal from the Governor or his designee requesting EPA approval of the program and at least three copies of a program submission. The submission shall contain the following:

(1) A complete program description describing how the State intends to carry out its responsibilities under this part.

(2) The regulations that comprise the permitting program, reasonably available evidence of their procedurally correct adoption, (including any notice of public comment and any significant comments received on the proposed part 70 program as requested by the Administrator), and copies of all applicable State or local statutes and regulations including those governing State administrative procedures that either authorize the part 70 program or restrict its implementation. The State shall include with the regulations any criteria used to determine insignificant activities or emission levels for purposes of determining complete applications consistent with § 70.5(c) of this part.

(3) A legal opinion from the Attorney General for the State, or the attorney for those State, local, or interstate air pollution control agencies that have independent legal counsel, stating that the laws of the State, locality, or interstate compact provide adequate authority to carry out all aspects of the program. This statement shall include citations to the specific states, administrative regulations, and, where appropriate, judicial decisions that demonstrate adequate authority. State statutes and regulations cited by the State Attorney General or independent legal counsel shall be in the form of lawfully adopted State states and regulations at the time the statement is signed and shall be fully effective by the time the program is approved. To qualify as "independent legal counsel," the attorney signing the statement required by this section shall have full authority to independently represent the State agency in court on all matters pertaining to the State program. The legal opinion shall also include a demonstration of adequate legal authority to carry out the requirements of this part, including authority to carry out each of the following:

(i) Issue permits and assure compliance with each applicable requirement and requirement of this part by all part 70 sources.

(ii) Incorporate monitoring, recordkeeping, reporting, and compliance certification requirements into part 70 permits consistent with § 70.6.

(iii) Issue permits for a fixed term of 5 years in the case of permits with acid rain provisions and issue all other permits for a period not to exceed 5 years, except for permits issued for solid waste incineration units combusting municipal waste subject to standards under section 129(e) of the Act.

(iv) Issue permits for solid waste incineration units combusting municipal waste subject to standards under section 129(e) of the Act for a period not to exceed 12 years and review such permits at least every 5 years. No permit for a solid waste incineration unit may be issued by an agency, instrumentality or person that is also responsible, in whole or in part, for the design and construction or operation of the unit.

(v) Incorporate into permits all applicable requirements and requirements of this part.

(vi) Terminate, modify, or revoke and reissue permits for cause.

(vii) Enforce permits, permit fee requirements, and the requirement to obtain a permit, as specified in § 70.11.

(viii) Make available to the public any permit application, statement required by § 70.7(a)(5) (sometimes referred to as the 'statement of basis'), compliance plan, permit, and monitoring and compliance certification report pursuant to section 503(e) of the Act, except for information entitled to confidential treatment pursuant to section 114(c) of the Act. The contents of a part 70 permit itself shall not be entitled to protection under section 114(c) of the Act.

(ix) Not issue a permit if the Administrator timely objects to its issuance pursuant to § 70.8(c) of this part or, if the permit has not already been issued, to § 70.8(d) of this part.

(x) Provide an opportunity for judicial review in State court of the final permit action by the applicant, any person who participated in the public participation process provided pursuant to § 70.7(h) of this part, and any other person who could obtain judicial review of such actions under State laws.

(xi) Provide that, solely for the purposes of obtaining judicial review in State court for failure to take final action, final permit action shall include the failure of the permitting authority to take final action on an application for a permit, permit renewal, or permit revision within the time specified in the State program. If the State program allows sources to make changes subject to post hoc review [as set forth in §§ 70.7(e)(2) and (3) of this part], the permitting authority's failure to take final action within 90 days of receipt of an application requesting minor permit modification procedures (or 180 days for modifications subject to group processing requirements) must be subject to judicial review in State court.

(xii) Provide that the opportunity for judicial review described in paragraph (b)(3)(x) of this section shall be the exclusive means for obtaining judicial review of the terms and conditions of permits, and require that such petitions for judicial review must be filed no later than 90 days after the final permit action, or such shorter time as the State shall designate. Notwithstanding the preceding requirement, petitions for judicial review of final permit actions can be filed after the deadline designated by the State, only if they are based solely on grounds arising after the deadline for judicial review. Such petitions shall be filed no later than 90 days after the new grounds for review arise or such shorter time as the State shall designate. If the final permit action being challenged is the permitting authority's failure to take final action, a petition for judicial review may be filed any time before the permitting authority denies the permit or issues the final permit.

(xiii) Ensure that the authority of the State/local permitting Agency is not used to modify the acid rain program requirements.

(4) Relevant permitting program documentation not contained in the State regulations, including the following:

(i) Copies of the permit form(s), application form(s), and reporting form(s) the State intends to employ in its program; and

(ii) Relevant guidance issued by the State to assist in the implementation of its permitting program, including criteria for monitoring source compliance (e.g., inspection strategies).

(5) A complete description of the State's compliance tracking and enforcement program or reference to any agreement the State has with EPA that provides this information.

(6) A showing of adequate authority and procedures to determine within 60 days of receipt whether applications (including renewal applications) are complete, to request such other information as needed to process the application, and to take final action on complete applications within 18 months of the date of their submittal, except for initial permit applications, for which the permitting authority may take up to 3 years from the effective date of the program to take final action on the application, as provided for in the transition plan.

(7) A demonstration, consistent with § 70.9, that the permit fees required by the State program are sufficient to cover permit program costs.

(8) A statement that adequate personnel and funding have been made available to develop, administer, and enforce the program. This statement shall include the following:

(i) A description in narrative form of the scope, structure, coverage, and processes of the State program.

(ii) A description of the organization and structure of the agency or agencies that will have responsibility for administering the program, including the information specified in this paragraph. If more than one agency is responsible for administration of a program, the responsibilities of each agency must be delineated, their procedures for coordination must be set forth, and an agency shall be designated as a "lead agency" to facilitate communications between EPA and the other agencies having program responsibility.

(iii) A description of the agency staff who will carry out the State program, including the number, occupation, and general duties of the employees. The State need not submit complete job descriptions for every employee carrying out the State program.

(iv) A description of applicable State procedures, including permitting procedures and any State administrative or judicial review procedures.

(v) An estimate of the permit program costs for the first 4 years after approval, and a description of how the State plans to cover those costs.

(9) A commitment from the State to submit, at least annually to the Administrator, information regarding the State's enforcement activities including, but not limited to, the number of criminal and civil, judicial and administrative enforcement actions either commenced or concluded; the penalties, fines, and sentences obtained in those actions; and the number of administrative orders issued.

(10) A requirement under State law that, if a timely and complete application for a permit renewal is submitted, consistent with § 70.5(a)(2), but the State has failed to issue or deny the renewal permit before the end of the term of the previous permit, then:

(i) The permit shall not expire until the renewal permit has been issued or denied and any permit shield that may be granted pursuant to § 70.6(f) may extend beyond the original permit term until renewal; or

(ii) All the terms and conditions of the permit including any permit shield that may be granted pursuant to § 70.6(f) shall remain in effect until the renewal permit has been issued or denied.

(11) A transition plan providing a schedule for submittal and final action on initial permit applications for all part 70 sources. This plan shall provide that:

(i) Submittal of permit applications by all part 70 sources (including any sources subject to a partial or interim program) shall occur within 1 year after the effective date of the permit program;

(ii) Final action shall be taken on at least one-third of such applications annually over a period not to exceed 3 years after such effective date;

(iii) Any complete permit application containing an early reduction demonstration under section 112(i)(5) of the Act shall be acted on within 9 months of receipt of the complete application; and

(iv) Submittal of permit applications and the permitting of affected sources shall occur in accordance with the deadlines in title IV of the Act and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
