
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.4 State program submittals and transition.
###### Program revisions.

(i)Either EPA or a State with an approved program may initiate a program revision. Program revision may be necessary when the relevant Federal or State statutes or regulations are modified or supplemented. The State shall keep EPA apprised of any proposed modifications to its basic statutory or regulatory authority or procedures.

(1) If the Administrator determines pursuant to ยง 70.10 of this part that a State is not adequately administering the requirements of this part, or that the State's permit program is inadequate in any other way, the State shall revise the program or its means of implementation to correct the inadequacy. The program shall be revised within 180 days, or such other period as the Administrator may specify, following notification by the Administrator, or within 2 years if the State demonstrates that additional legal authority is necessary to make the program revision.

(2) Revision of a State program shall be accomplished as follows:

(i) The State shall submit a modified program description, Attorney General's statement, or such other documents as EPA determines to be necessary.

(ii) After EPA receives a proposed program revision, it will publish in thea public notice summarizing the proposed change and provide a public comment period of at least 30 days.

(iii) The Administrator shall approve or disapprove program revisions based on the requirements of this part and of the Act.

(iv) A program revision shall become effective upon the approval of the Administrator. Notice of approval of any substantial revision shall be published in theNotice of approval of nonsubstantial program revisions may be given by a letter from the Administrator to the Governor or a designee.

(v) The Governor of any State with an approved part 70 program shall notify EPA whenever the Governor proposes to transfer all or part of the program to any other agency, and shall identify any new division of responsibilities among the agencies involved. The new agency is not authorized to administer the program until the revision has been approved by the Administrator under this paragraph.

(3) Whenever the Administrator has reason to believe that circumstances have changed with respect to a State program, he may request, and the State shall provide, a supplemental Attorney General's statement, program description, or such other documents or information as he determines are necessary.
