
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.5 Permit applications.
###### Timely application.

(1)(i) A timely application for a source applying for a part 70 permit for the first time is one that is submitted within 12 months after the source becomes subject to the permit program or on or before such earlier date as the permitting authority may establish.

(ii) Part 70 sources required to meet the requirements under section 112(g) of the Act, or to have a permit under the preconstruction review program approved into the applicable implementation plan under part C or D of title I of the Act, shall file a complete application to obtain the part 70 permit or permit revision within 12 months after commencing operation or on or before such earlier date as the permitting authority may establish. Where an existing part 70 permit would prohibit such construction or change in operation, the source must obtain a permit revision before commencing operation.

(iii) For purposes of permit renewal, a timely application is one that is submitted at least 6 months prior to the date of permit expiration, or such other longer time as may be approved by the Administrator that ensures that the term of the permit will not expire before the permit is renewed. In no event shall this time be greater than 18 months.

(iv) Applications for initial phase II acid rain permits shall be submitted to the permitting authority by January 1, 1996 for sulfur dioxide, and by January 1, 1998 for nitrogen oxides.
