
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.6 Permit content.
###### 6

() The operating conditions as existing at the time of sampling or measurement;

(B) Retention of records of all required monitoring data and support information for a period of at least 5 years from the date of the monitoring sample, measurement, report, or application. Support information includes all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip-chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, and copies of all reports required by the permit.

(iii) With respect to reporting, the permit shall incorporate all applicable reporting requirements and require the following:

(A) Submittal of reports of any required monitoring at least every 6 months. All instances of deviations from permit requirements must be clearly identified in such reports. All required reports must be certified by a responsible official consistent with ยง 70.5(d) of this part.

(B) Prompt reporting of deviations from permit requirements, including those attributable to upset conditions as defined in the permit, the probable cause of such deviations, and any corrective actions or preventive measures taken. The permitting authority shall define "prompt" in relation to the degree and type of deviation likely to occur and the applicable requirements.

(4) A permit condition prohibiting emissions exceeding any allowances that the source lawfully holds under title IV of the Act or the regulations promulgated thereunder.

(i) No permit revision shall be required for increases in emissions that are authorized by allowances acquired pursuant to the acid rain program, provided that such increases do not require a permit revision under any other applicable requirement.

(ii) No limit shall be placed on the number of allowances held by the source. The source may not, however, use allowances as a defense to noncompliance with any other applicable requirement.

(iii) Any such allowance shall be accounted for according to the procedures established in regulations promulgated under title IV of the Act.

(5) A severability clause to ensure the continued validity of the various permit requirements in the event of a challenge to any portions of the permit.

(6) Provisions stating the following:

(i) The permittee must comply with all conditions of the part 70 permit. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Act and is grounds for enforcement action; for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification; or for denial of a permit renewal application.

(ii) Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense. It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.

(iii) The permit may be modified, revoked, reopened, and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or of a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit condition.

(iv) The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privilege.

(v) The permittee shall furnish to the permitting authority, within a reasonable time, any information that the permitting authority may request in writing to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating the permit or to determine compliance with the permit. Upon request, the permittee shall also furnish to the permitting authority copies of records required to be kept by the permit or, for information claimed to be confidential, the permittee may furnish such records directly to the Administrator along with a claim of confidentiality.

(7) A provision to ensure that a part 70 source pays fees to the permitting authority consistent with the fee schedule approved pursuant to ยง 70.9 of this part.
