
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### § 70.7 Permit issuance, renewal, reopenings, and revisions.
###### Action on application.

(a)(1) A permit, permit modification, or renewal may be issued only if all of the following condition have been met:

(i) The permitting authority has received a complete application for a permit, permit modification, or permit renewal, except that a complete application need not be received before issuance of a general permit under § 70.6(d) of this part;

(ii) Except for modifications qualifying for minor permit modification procedures under paragraphs (e) (2) and (3) of this section, the permitting authority has complied with the requirements for public participation under paragraph (h) of this section;

(iii) The permitting authority has complied with the requirements for notifying and responding to affected States under § 70.8(b) of this part;

(iv) The conditions of the permit provide for compliance with all applicable requirements and the requirements of this part; and

(v) The Administrator has received a copy of the proposed permit and any notices required under §§ 70.8(a) and 70.8(b) of this part, and has not objected to issuance of the permit under § 70.8(c) of this part within the time period specified therein.

(2) Except as provided under the initial transition plan provided for under § 70.4(b)(11) of this part or under regulations promulgated under title IV of title V of the Act for the permitting of affected sources under the acid rain program, the program shall provide that the permitting authority take final action on each permit application (including a request for permit modification or renewal) within 18 months, or such lesser time approved by the Administrator, after receiving a complete application.

(3) The program shall also contain reasonable procedures to ensure priority is given to taking action on applications for construction or modification under title I, parts C and D of the Act.

(4) The permitting authority shall promptly provide notice to the applicant of whether the application is complete. Unless the permitting authority requests additional information or otherwise notifies the applicant of incompleteness within 60 days of receipt of an application, the application shall be deemed complete. For modifications processed through minor permit modification procedures, such as those in paragraphs (e) (2) and (3) of this section, the State program need not require a completeness determination.

(5) The permitting authority shall provide a statement that sets forth the legal and factual basis for the draft permit conditions (including references to the applicable statutory or regulatory provisions). The permitting authority shall send this statement to EPA and to any other person who requests it.

(6) The submittal of a complete application shall not affect the requirement that any source have a preconstruction permit under title I of the Act.
