
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.8 Permit review by EPA and affected States.
###### EPA objection.

(c)(1) The Administrator will object to the issuance of any proposed permit determined by the Administrator not to be in compliance with applicable requirements or requirements under this part. No permit for which an application must be transmitted to the Administrator under paragraph (a) of this section shall be issued if the Administrator objects to its issuance in writing within 45 days of receipt of the proposed permit and all necessary supporting information required under ยง 7 0.8(a)(1), including under ยง 70.8(a)(1)(i) or (ii) where applicable.

(2) Any EPA objection under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall include a statement of the Administrator's reasons for objection and a description of the terms and conditions that the permit must include to respond to the objections. The Administrator will provide the permit applicant a copy of the objection.

(3) Failure of the permitting authority to do any of the following also shall constitute grounds for an objection:

(i) Comply with paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section;

(ii) Submit any information necessary to review adequately the proposed permit; or

(iii) Process the permit under the procedures approved to meet ยง 70.7(h) of this part except for minor permit modifications.

(4) If the permitting authority fails, within 90 days after the date of an objection under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, to revise and submit a proposed permit in response to the objection, the Administrator will issue or deny the permit in accordance with the requirements of the Federal program promulgated under title V of this Act.
