
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.9 Fee determination and certification.
###### GHG cost adjustment.

(v)The amount calculated in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section shall be increased by the GHG cost adjustment determined as follows: For each activity identified in the following table, multiply the number of activities performed by the permitting authority by the burden hours per activity, and then calculate a total number of burden hours for all activities. Next, multiply the burden hours by the average cost of staff time, including wages, employee benefits and overhead.

(3) The State program's fee schedule may include emissions fees, application fees, service-based fees or other types of fees, or any combination thereof, to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. Nothing in the provisions of this section shall require a permitting authority to calculate fees on any particular basis or in the same manner for all part 70 sources, all classes or categories of part 70 sources, or all regulated air pollutants, provided that the permitting authority collects a total amount of fees sufficient to meet the program support requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, during the years 1995 through 1999 inclusive, no fee for purposes of title V shall be required to be paid with respect to emissions from any affected unit under section 404 of the Act.

(5) The State shall provide a detailed accounting that its fee schedule meets the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) of this section if:

(i) The State sets a fee schedule that would result in the collection and retention of an amount less than that presumed to be adequate under paragraph (b)(2) of this section; or

(ii) The Administrator determines, based on comments rebutting the presumption in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or on his own initiative, that there are serious questions regarding whether the fee schedule is sufficient to cover the permit program costs.
