
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 70 - STATE OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### ยง 70.10 Federal oversight and sanctions.
###### State failure to administer or enforce.

(b)Any State program approved by the Administrator shall at all times be conducted in accordance with the requirements of this part and of any agreement between the State and the Administrator concerning operation of the program.

(1) Whenever the Administrator makes a determination that a permitting authority is not adequately administering or enforcing a part 70 program, or any portion thereof, the Administrator will notify the permitting authority of the determination and the reasons therefore. The Administrator will publish such notice in the

(2) If, 90 days after issuing the notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the permitting authority fails to take significant action to assure adequate administration and enforcement of the program, the Administrator may take one or more of the following actions:

(i) Withdraw approval of the program or portion thereof using procedures consistent with ยง 70.4(e) of this part;

(ii) Apply any of the sanctions specified in section 179(b) of the Act;

(iii) Promulgate, administer, or enforce a Federal program under title V of the Act.

(3) Whenever the Administrator has made the finding and issued the notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will apply the sanctions under section 179(b) of the Act 18 months after that notice. These sanctions will be applied in the same manner and subject to the same deadlines and other conditions as are applicable in the case of a determination, disapproval, or finding under section 179(a) of the Act.

(4) Whenever the Administrator has made the finding and issued the notice under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the Administrator will, unless the State has corrected such deficiency within 18 months after the date of such finding, promulgate, administer, and enforce, a whole or partial program 2 years after the date of such finding.

(5) Nothing in this section shall limit the Administrator's authority to take any enforcement action against a source for violations of the Act or of a permit issued under rules adopted pursuant to this section in a State that has been delegated responsibility by EPA to implement a Federal program promulgated under title V of the Act.

(6) Where a whole State program consists of an aggregate of partial programs, and one or more partial programs fails to be fully approved or implemented, the Administrator may apply sanctions only in those areas for which the State failed to submit or implement an approvable program.
