
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.4 Program implementation.
####### Transition to approved part 70 program.

(l)The Administrator will suspend the issuance of part 71 permits promptly upon publication of notice of approval of a State or Tribal operating permits program that meets the requirements of part 70 of this chapter. The Administrator may retain jurisdiction over the part 71 permits for which the administrative or judicial review process is not complete and will address this issue in the notice of State program approval. After approval of a State or Tribal program and the suspension of issuance of part 71 permits by the Administrator:

(1) The Administrator, or the permitting authority acting as the Administrator's delegated agent, will continue to administer and enforce part 71 permits until they are replaced by permits issued under the approved part 70 program. Until such time as part 71 permits are replaced by part 70 permits, the Administrator will revise, reopen, revise, terminate, or revoke and reissue part 71 permits using the procedures of the part 71 program. However, if the Administrator has delegated authority to administer part 71 permits to a delegate agency, the delegate agency will revise, reopen, terminate, or revoke and reissue part 71 permits using the procedures of the approved part 70 program. If a part 71 permit expires prior to the issuance of a part 70 permit, all terms and conditions of the part 71 permit, including any permit shield that may be granted pursuant to ยง 71.6(f), shall remain in effect until the part 70 permit is issued or denied, provided that a timely and complete application for a permit renewal was submitted to the permitting authority in accordance with the requirements of the approved part 70 program.

(2) A State or local agency or Indian Tribe with an approved part 70 operating permits program may issue part 70 permits for all sources with part 71 permits in accordance with a permit issuance schedule approved as part of the approved part 70 program or may issue part 70 permits to such sources at the expiration of the part 71 permits.
