
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.5 Permit applications.
####### Complete application.

(2)To be deemed complete, an application must provide all information required pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section, except that applications for permit revision need supply such information only if it is related to the proposed change. To be found complete, an initial or renewal application must remit payment of fees owed under the fee schedule established pursuant to ยง 71.9(b). Information required under paragraph (c) of this section must be sufficient to evaluate the subject source and its application and to determine all applicable requirements. A responsible official must certify the submitted information consistent with paragraph (d) of this section. Unless the permitting authority determines that an application is not complete within 60 days of receipt of the application, such application shall be deemed to be complete, except as otherwise provided in ยง 71.7(a)(4). If, while processing an application that has been determined or deemed to be complete, the permitting authority determines that additional information is necessary to evaluate or take final action on that application, it may request such information in writing and set a reasonable deadline for a response. The source's ability to operate without a permit, as set forth in ยง 71.7(b), shall be in effect from the date the application is determined or deemed to be complete until the final permit is issued, provided that the applicant submits any requested additional information by the deadline specified by the permitting authority.
