
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.5 Permit applications.
####### Timely application.

(1)(i) A timely application for a source which does not have an existing operating permit issued by a State under the State's approved part 70 program and is applying for a part 71 permit for the first time is one that is submitted within 12 months after the source becomes subject to the permit program or on or before such earlier date as the permitting authority may establish. Sources required to submit applications earlier than 12 months after the source becomes subject to the permit program will be notified of the earlier submittal date at least 6 months in advance of the date.

(ii) Part 71 sources required to meet the requirements under section 112(g) of the Act, or to have a permit under the preconstruction review program approved into the applicable implementation plan under part C or D of title I of the Act, shall file a complete application to obtain the part 71 permit or permit revision within 12 months after commencing operation or on or before such earlier date as the permitting authority may establish. Sources required to submit applications earlier than 12 months after the source becomes subject to the permit program will be notified of the earlier submittal date at least 6 months in advance of the date. Where an existing part 70 or 71 permit would prohibit such construction or change in operation, the source must obtain a permit revision before commencing operation.

(iii) For purposes of permit renewal, a timely application is one that is submitted at least 6 months but not more that 18 months prior to expiration of the part 70 or 71 permit.

(iv) Applications for initial phase II acid rain permits shall be submitted to the permitting authority by January 1, 1996 for sulfur dioxide, and by January 1, 1998 for nitrogen oxides.
