
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.6 Permit content.
####### 6

() The operating conditions as existing at the time of sampling or measurement;

(B) Retention of records of all required monitoring data and support information for a period of at least 5 years from the date of the monitoring sample, measurement, report, or application. Support information includes all calibration and maintenance records and all original strip-chart recordings for continuous monitoring instrumentation, and copies of all reports required by the permit.

(iii) With respect to reporting, the permit shall incorporate all applicable reporting requirements and require the following:

(A) Submittal of reports of any required monitoring at least every 6 months. All instances of deviations from permit requirements must be clearly identified in such reports. All required reports must be certified by a responsible official consistent with ยง 71.5(d).

(B) Prompt reporting of deviations from permit requirements, including those attributable to upset conditions as defined in the permit, the probable cause of such deviations, and any corrective actions or preventive measures taken. Where the underlying applicable requirement contains a definition of prompt or otherwise specifies a time frame for reporting deviations, that definition or time frame shall govern. Where the underlying applicable requirement fails to address the time frame for reporting deviations, reports of deviations shall be submitted to the permitting authority based on the following schedule:
