
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.6 Permit content.
####### 4

() A situation in which an exceedance or an excursion, as defined in part 64 of this chapter, occurs.

(4) A permit condition prohibiting emissions exceeding any allowances that the source lawfully holds under 40 CFR parts 72 through 78.

(i) No permit revision shall be required for increases in emissions that are authorized by allowances acquired pursuant to the acid rain program, provided that such increases do not require a permit revision under any other applicable requirement.

(ii) No limit shall be placed on the number of allowances held by the source. The source may not, however, use allowances as a defense to noncompliance with any other applicable requirement.

(iii) Any such allowance shall be accounted for according to the procedures established in regulations 40 CFR parts 72 through 78.

(5) A severability clause to ensure the continued validity of the various permit requirements in the event of a challenge to any portions of the permit.

(6) Provisions stating the following:

(i) The permittee must comply with all conditions of the part 71 permit. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Act and is grounds for enforcement action; for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification; or for denial of a permit renewal application.

(ii) Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense. It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit.

(iii) The permit may be modified, revoked, reopened, and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or of a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit condition.

(iv) The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privilege.

(v) The permittee shall furnish to the permitting authority, within a reasonable time, any information that the permitting authority may request in writing to determine whether cause exists for modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating the permit or to determine compliance with the permit. Upon request, the permittee shall also furnish to the permitting authority copies of records required to be kept by the permit or, in the case of a program delegated pursuant to ยง 71.10, for information claimed to be confidential, the permittee may furnish such records directly to the Administrator along with a claim of confidentiality.

(7) A provision to ensure that a part 71 source pays fees to the Administrator consistent with the fee schedule approved pursuant to ยง 71.9.
