
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### § 71.6 Permit content.
####### Operational flexibility.

(13)Provisions consistent with paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section to allow changes within a permitted facility without requiring a permit revision, if the changes are not modifications under any provision of title I of the Act and the changes do not exceed the emissions allowable under the permit (whether expressed therein as a rate of emissions or in terms of total emissions): Provided, that the facility provides the Administrator (in the case of a program delegated pursuant to § 71.10) and the permitting authority with written notification as required below in advance of the proposed changes, which shall be a minimum of 7 days.

(i) The permit shall allow the permitted source to make section 502(b)(10) changes without requiring a permit revision, if the changes are not modifications under any provision of title I of the Act and the changes do not exceed the emissions allowable under the permit (whether expressed therein as a rate of emissions or in terms of total emissions).

(A) For each such change, the written notification required above shall include a brief description of the change within the permitted facility, the date on which the change will occur, any change in emissions, and any permit term or condition that is no longer applicable as a result of the change.

(B) The permit shield described in § 71.6(f) shall not apply to any change made pursuant to this paragraph (a)(13)(i).

(ii) The permit may provide for the permitted source to trade increases and decreases in emissions in the permitted facility, where the applicable implementation plan provides for such emissions trades without requiring a permit revision and based on the 7-day notice prescribed in this paragraph (a)(13)(ii) of this section. This provision is available in those cases where the permit does not already provide for such emissions trading.

(A) Under this paragraph (a)(13)(ii), the written notification required above shall include such information as may be required by the provision in the applicable implementation plan authorizing the emissions trade, including at a minimum, when the proposed change will occur, a description of each such change, any change in emissions, the permit requirements with which the source will comply using the emissions trading provisions of the applicable implementation plan, and the pollutants emitted subject to the emissions trade. The notice shall also refer to the provisions with which the source will comply in the applicable implementation plan and that provide for the emissions trade.

(B) The permit shield described in § 71.6(f) shall not extend to any change made under this paragraph (a)(13)(ii). Compliance with the permit requirements that the source will meet using the emissions trade shall be determined according to requirements of the applicable implementation plan authorizing the emissions trade.

(iii) The permit shall require the permitting authority, if a permit applicant requests it, to issue permits that contain terms and conditions, including all terms required under § 71.6 (a) and (c) to determine compliance, allowing for the trading of emissions increases and decreases in the permitted facility solely for the purpose of complying with a federally-enforceable emissions cap that is established in the permit independent of otherwise applicable requirements. The permit applicant shall include in its application proposed replicable procedures and permit terms that ensure the emissions trades are quantifiable and enforceable. The permitting authority shall not be required to include in the emissions trading provisions any emissions units for which emissions are not quantifiable or for which there are no replicable procedures to enforce the emissions trades. The permit shall also require compliance with all applicable requirements.

(A) Under this paragraph (a)(13)(iii), the written notification required above shall state when the change will occur and shall describe the changes in emissions that will result and how these increases and decreases in emissions will comply with the terms and conditions of the permit.

(B) The permit shield described in § 71.6(f) may extend to terms and conditions that allow such increases and decreases in emissions.
