
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.6 Permit content.
####### Emissions trading.

(8)A provision stating that no permit revision shall be required, under any approved economic incentives, marketable permits, emissions trading and other similar programs or processes for changes that are provided for in the permit.

(9) Terms and conditions for reasonably anticipated AOSs identified by the source in its application as approved by the permitting authority. Such terms and conditions:

(i) Shall require the source, contemporaneously with making a change from one operating scenario to another, to record in a log at the permitted facility a record of the AOS under which it is operating;

(ii) May extend the permit shield described in paragraph (f) of this section to all terms and conditions under each such AOS; and

(iii) Must ensure that the terms and conditions of each AOS meet all applicable requirements and the requirements of this part. The permitting authority shall not approve a proposed AOS into the part 71 permit until the source has obtained all authorizations required under any applicable requirement relevant to that AOS.

(10) Terms and conditions, if the permit applicant requests them, for the trading of emissions increases and decreases in the permitted facility, to the extent that the applicable requirements provide for trading such increases and decreases without a case-by-case approval of each emissions trade. Such terms and conditions:

(i) Shall include all terms required under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section to determine compliance;

(ii) May extend the permit shield described in paragraph (f) of this section to all terms and conditions that allow such increases and decreases in emissions; and

(iii) Must meet all applicable requirements and requirements of this part.
