
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### § 71.7 Permit issuance, renewal, reopenings, and revisions.
####### Action on application.

(a)(1) A permit, permit modification, or renewal may be issued only if all of the following conditions have been met:

(i) The permitting authority has received a complete application for a permit, permit modification, or permit renewal, except that a complete application need not be received before issuance of a general permit under § 71.6(d);

(ii) Except for modifications qualifying for minor permit modification procedures under paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section, the permitting authority has complied with the requirements for public participation under this section or § 71.11, as applicable;

(iii) The permitting authority has complied with the requirements for notifying and responding to affected States under § 71.8(a);

(iv) The conditions of the permit provide for compliance with all applicable requirements and the requirements of this part; and

(v) In the case of a program delegated pursuant to § 71.10, the Administrator has received a copy of the proposed permit and any notices required under § 71.10(d) and has not objected to issuance of the permit under § 71.10(g) within the time period specified therein.

(2) Except as provided under the initial transition plan provided for under § 71.4(i) or under 40 CFR part 72 or title V of the Act for the permitting of affected sources under the acid rain program, the permitting authority shall take final action on each permit application (including a request for permit modification or renewal) within 18 months after receiving a complete application.

(3) The permitting authority shall ensure that priority is given to taking action on applications for construction or modification under title I, parts C and D of the Act.

(4) The permitting authority shall promptly provide notice to the applicant of whether the application is complete. Unless the permitting authority requests additional information or otherwise notifies the applicant of incompleteness within 60 days of receipt of an application, the application shall be deemed complete. For modifications processed through minor permit modification procedures, such as those in paragraphs (e) (1) and (2) of this section, the permitting authority need not make a completeness determination.

(5) The permitting authority shall provide a statement that sets forth the legal and factual basis for the draft permit conditions (including references to the applicable statutory or regulatory provisions). The permitting authority shall send this statement to any person who requests it, and to EPA, in the case of a program delegated pursuant to § 71.10.

(6) The submittal of a complete application shall not affect the requirement that any source have a preconstruction permit under title I of the Act.
