
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter B - Grants and Other Federal Assistance
#### PART 49 - INDIAN COUNTRY: AIR QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### Subpart M - Implementation Plans for Tribes - Region X
###### Implementation Plan for the Swinomish Indians of the Swinomish Reservation, Washington
####### ยง 49.10956 Contents of implementation plan.

The implementation plan for the Swinomish Reservation consists of the following rules, regulations, and measures:

(a) Section 49.123 General provisions.

(b) Section 49.124 Rule for limiting visible emissions.

(c) Section 49.125 Rule for limiting the emissions of particulate matter.

(d) Section 49.126 Rule for limiting fugitive particulate matter emissions.

(e) Section 49.129 Rule for limiting emissions of sulfur dioxide.

(f) Section 49.130 Rule for limiting sulfur in fuels.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Section 49.135 Rule for emissions detrimental to public health or welfare.

(i) Section 49.137 Rule for air pollution episodes.

(j) Section 49.138 Rule for the registration of air pollution sources and the reporting of emissions.

(k) Section 49.139 Rule for non-Title V operating permits.

(l) The EPA-approved Tribal open burning rules and measures approved in ยง 49.10957.

(1) Title, authority, jurisdiction, definitions.

(2) Open burning.

(3) Public involvement.

(4) Appeals.

(5) Repealer, severability and effective date.

(6) Enforcement.

(7) Hearings, appeals, computation of time and law applicable.
