
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### § 71.7 Permit issuance, renewal, reopenings, and revisions.
####### Application.

(ii)An application requesting the use of group processing procedures shall meet the requirements of § 71.5(c) and shall include the following:

(A) A description of the change, the emissions resulting from the change, and any new applicable requirements that will apply if the change occurs.

(B) The source's suggested draft permit.

(C) Certification by a responsible official, consistent with § 71.5(d), that the proposed modification meets the criteria for use of group processing procedures and a request that such procedures be used.

(D) A list of the source's other pending applications awaiting group processing, and a determination of whether the requested modification, aggregated with these other applications, equals or exceeds the threshold set under paragraph (e)(2)(i)(B) of this section.

(E) Certification, consistent with § 71.5(d), that, in the case of a program delegated pursuant to § 71.10, the source has notified EPA of the proposed modification. Such notification need only contain a brief description of the requested modification.

(F) Completed forms for the permitting authority to use to notify affected States as required under § 71.8 (and the Administrator as required under § 71.10(d) in the case of a program delegated pursuant to § 71.10).
