
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.7 Permit issuance, renewal, reopenings, and revisions.
####### Reopening for cause.

(f)(1) Each issued permit shall include provisions specifying the conditions under which the permit will be reopened prior to the expiration of the permit. A permit shall be reopened and revised under any of the following circumstances:

(i) Additional applicable requirements under the Act become applicable to a major part 71 source with a remaining permit term of 3 or more years. Such a reopening shall be completed not later than 18 months after promulgation of the applicable requirement. No such reopening is required if the effective date of the requirement is later than the date on which the permit is due to expire, unless the original permit or any of its terms and conditions have been extended pursuant to paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(ii) Additional requirements (including excess emissions requirements) become applicable to an affected source under the acid rain program. Upon approval by the Administrator, excess emissions offset plans shall be deemed to be incorporated into the permit.

(iii) The permitting authority (or EPA, in the case of a program delegated pursuant to ยง 71.10) determines that the permit contains a material mistake or that inaccurate statements were made in establishing the emissions standards or other terms or conditions of the permit.

(iv) The permitting authority (or EPA, in the case of a program delegated pursuant to ยง 71.10) determines that the permit must be revised or revoked to assure compliance with the applicable requirements.

(2) Proceedings to reopen and issue a permit shall follow the same procedures as apply to initial permit issuance and shall affect only those parts of the permit for which cause to reopen exists, and shall be made as expeditiously as practicable.

(3) Reopenings under paragraph (f)(1) of this section shall not be initiated before a notice of such intent is provided to the part 71 source by the permitting authority at least 30 days in advance of the date that the permit is to be reopened, except that the permitting authority may provide a shorter time period in the case of an emergency.
