
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.9 Permit fees.
####### Establishment of fee schedule.

(c)(1) For part 71 programs that are administered by EPA, each part 71 source shall pay an annual fee which is the sum of:

(i) $32 per ton (as adjusted pursuant to the criteria set forth in paragraph (n)(1) of this section) times the total tons of the actual emissions of each regulated pollutant (for fee calculation) emitted from the source, including fugitive emissions; and

(ii) Any GHG fee adjustment required under paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(2) For part 71 programs that are fully delegated pursuant to ยง 71.10:

(i) Where the EPA has not suspended its part 71 fee collection pursuant to paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, the annual fee for each part 71 source shall be the sum of:

(A) $24 per ton (as adjusted pursuant to the criteria set forth in paragraph (n)(1) of this section) times the total tons of the actual emissions of each regulated pollutant (for fee calculation) emitted from the source, including fugitive emissions; and

(B) Any GHG fee adjustment required under paragraph (c)(8) of this section.

(ii) Where the delegate State collects fees from part 71 sources under State law which are sufficient to fund the delegated part 71 program, the EPA may suspend its collection of part 71 fees. The specific terms and conditions regarding the suspension of fee collection will be addressed in the applicable delegation agreement pursuant to ยง 71.10.

(3) For part 71 programs that are administered by EPA with contractor assistance, the per ton fee shall vary depending on the extent of contractor involvement and the cost to EPA of contractor assistance. The EPA shall establish a per ton fee that is based on the contractor costs for the specific part 71 program that is being administered, using the following formula:

(4) For programs that are delegated in part, the fee shall be computed using the following formula:

(5) The following emissions shall be excluded from the calculation of fees under paragraph (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section:

(i) The amount of a part 71 source's actual emissions of each regulated pollutant (for fee calculation) that the source emits in excess of four thousand (4,000) tpy;

(ii) A part 71 source's actual emissions of any regulated pollutant (for fee calculation) already included in the fee calculation; and

(iii) The insignificant quantities of actual emissions not required to be listed or calculated in a permit application pursuant to ยง 71.5(c)(11).

(6) "Actual emissions" means the actual rate of emissions in tpy of any regulated pollutant (for fee calculation) emitted from a part 71 source over the preceding calendar year. Actual emissions shall be calculated using each emissions unit's actual operating hours, production rates, in-place control equipment, and types of materials processed, stored, or combusted during the preceding calendar year.

(7) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) (1) through (4) of this section, if the Administrator determines that the fee structures provided in paragraphs (c)(1) through (4) of this section do not reflect the costs of administering a part 71 program, then the Administrator shall by rule set a fee which adequately reflects permit program costs for that program.
