
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.7 Permit issuance, renewal, reopenings, and revisions.
####### Reopenings for cause by EPA for delegated programs.

(g)(1) In the case of a program delegated pursuant to ยง 71.10, if the Administrator finds that cause exists to terminate, modify, or revoke and reissue a permit pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section, the Administrator will notify the permitting authority and the permittee of such finding in writing.

(2) The permitting authority shall, within 90 days after receipt of such notification, forward to EPA a proposed determination of termination, modification, or revocation and reissuance, as appropriate. The Administrator may extend this 90-day period for an additional 90 days if he or she finds that a new or revised permit application is necessary or that the permitting authority must require the permittee to submit additional information.

(3) The Administrator will review the proposed determination from the permitting authority within 90 days of receipt.

(4) The permitting authority shall have 90 days from receipt of an EPA objection to resolve any objection that EPA makes and to terminate, modify, or revoke and reissue the permit in accordance with the Administrator's objection.

(5) If the permitting authority fails to submit a proposed determination pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section or fails to resolve any objection pursuant to paragraph (g)(4) of this section, the Administrator will terminate, modify, or revoke and reissue the permit after taking the following actions:

(i) Providing at least 30 days' notice to the permittee in writing of the reasons for any such action. This notice may be given during the procedures in paragraphs (g) (1) through (4) of this section.

(ii) Providing the permittee an opportunity for comment on the Administrator's proposed action and an opportunity for a hearing.
