
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.9 Permit fees.
####### Penalty and interest assessment.

(l)(1) The permitting authority shall assess interest on payments which are received later than the date due. The interest rate shall be the sum of the Federal short-term rate determined by the Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with section 6621(a)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, plus 3 percentage points.

(2) The permitting authority shall assess a penalty charge of 50 percent of the fee amount if the fee is not paid within 30 days of the payment due date.

(3) If a source underpays the fee owed, except as provided in paragraph (l)(4) of this section, the permitting authority shall assess a penalty charge of 50 percent on the amount by which the fee was underpaid. Interest shall also be assessed, computed under paragraph (l)(1) of this section, on the amount by which the fee was underpaid.

(4) If a source bases its initial fee calculation on estimated emissions from the source's current or preceding calendar year, as provided under paragraph (h)(4) of this section, and underpays its fee based on an underestimation of these emissions, the permitting authority shall assess a penalty charge of 50 percent on certain of these underpayments, according to the following provisions:

(i) The penalty charge shall be assessed whenever a source's underpayment exceeds the underpayment penalty cutoff established in paragraph (l)(4)(iii) of this section. The penalty amount shall be 50 percent of the portion of the underpayment which is in excess of the underpayment penalty cutoff.

(ii) Where a source is subject to a penalty for underpayment pursuant to paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section, interest as computed under paragraph (l)(1) of this section shall be assessed on that portion of the underpayment which is in excess of the underpayment penalty cutoff established in paragraph (l)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) The underpayment penalty cutoff for a source shall be the sum of the following:

(A) 50 percent of the portion of the initial fee amount which was calculated from estimated emissions of HAP listed pursuant to 112(b) of the Act, and

(B) 20 percent of the portion of initial fee amount which was calculated from estimated emissions of the remainder of the regulated air pollutants (for fee calculation).
