
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.9 Permit fees.
####### Annual emissions reports,Deadlines for submission.

(h)-(1)Each part 71 source shall submit an annual report of its actual emissions for the preceding calendar year, a fee calculation work sheet (based on the report), and full payment of the annual fee each year on the anniversary date of its initial fee calculation work sheet, except that sources that were required to submit initial fee calculation work sheets between January 1 and March 31 inclusive shall submit subsequent annual emissions reports and fee calculation work sheets by April 1.

(2) Annual emissions reports and fee calculation worksheets shall be certified by a responsible official consistent with ยง 71.5(d).

(3) For sources that have been issued part 70 or part 71 permits, actual emissions shall be computed using methods required by the most current permit for determining compliance.

(4) If the source's initial fee calculation work sheet was based on estimated emissions for the source's current or preceding calendar year, then the source shall reconcile the fees owed when it submits its annual emissions report. The source shall compare the estimated emissions from the initial work sheet and the actual emissions from the report and shall enter such information on the fee calculation work sheet that accompanies the annual report. The source shall recompute the initial fee accordingly and shall remit any underpayment with the report and work sheet. The EPA shall credit any overpayment to the source's account.
