
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.9 Permit fees.
####### Submission of initial fee calculation work sheets and fees.

(e)(1) Each part 71 source shall complete and submit an initial fee calculation work sheet as provided in paragraphs (e)(2), (f), and (g) of this section and shall complete and submit fee calculation work sheets thereafter as provided in paragraph (h) of this section. Calculations of actual or estimated emissions and calculation of the fees owed by a source shall be computed by the source on fee calculation work sheets provided by EPA. Fee payment of the full amount must accompany each initial fee calculation work sheet.

(2) The fee calculation work sheet shall require the source to submit a report of its actual emissions for the preceding calendar year and to compute fees owed based on those emissions. For sources that have been issued part 70 or part 71 permits, actual emissions shall be computed using compliance methods required by the most recent permit. If actual emissions cannot be determined using the compliance methods in the permit, the actual emissions should be determined using federally recognized procedures. If a source commenced operation during the preceding calendar year, the source shall estimate its actual emissions for the current calendar year. In such a case, fees for the source shall be based on the total emissions estimated.

(3) The initial fee calculation worksheet shall be certified by a responsible official consistent with ยง 71.5(d).
