
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.10 Delegation of part 71 program.
####### Delegation of part 71 program.

(a)The Administrator may delegate, in whole or in part, with or without signature authority, the authority to administer a part 71 operating permits program to a State, eligible Tribe, local, or other non-State agency in accordance with the provisions of this section. In order to be delegated authority to administer a part 71 program, the delegate agency must submit a legal opinion from the Attorney General from the State, or the attorney for the State, local, interstate, or eligible Tribal agency that has independent legal counsel, stating that the laws of the State, locality, interstate compact or Indian Tribe provide adequate authority to carry out all aspects of the delegated program. A Delegation of Authority Agreement (Agreement) shall set forth the terms and conditions of the delegation, shall specify the provisions that the delegate agency shall be authorized to implement, and shall be entered into by the Administrator and the delegate agency. The Agreement shall become effective upon the date that both the Administrator and the delegate agency have signed the Agreement. Once delegation becomes effective, the delegate agency will be responsible, to the extent specified in the Agreement, for administering the part 71 program for the area subject to the Agreement. Delegate agencies that choose to receive electronic documents as part of their delegated program must satisfy the requirements of 40 CFR part 3-(Electronic reporting).
