
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### § 71.10 Delegation of part 71 program.
####### EPA objection.

(g)(1) The Administrator will object to the issuance of any proposed permit determined by the Administrator not to be in compliance with applicable requirements or requirements under this part. No permit for which an application must be transmitted to the Administrator under paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall be issued if the Administrator objects to its issuance in writing within 45 days of receipt of the proposed permit and all necessary supporting information. When a part 71 program has been delegated in accordance with the provisions of this section, failure of the delegate agency to do any of the following shall constitute grounds for an objection by the Administrator:

(i) Comply with paragraph (d) of this section;

(ii) Submit any information necessary to review adequately the proposed permit;

(iii) Process the permit under the procedures required by §§ 71.7 and 71.11; or

(iv) Comply with the requirements of § 71.8(a).

(2) Any EPA objection under paragraph (g)(1) of this section shall include a statement of the Administrator's reason(s) for objection and a description of the terms and conditions that the permit must include to respond to the objection. The Administrator will provide the permit applicant a copy of the objection.

(3) If the delegate agency fails, within 90 days after the date of an objection under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, to revise and submit to the Administrator the proposed permit in response to the objection, the Administrator shall issue or deny the permit in accordance with the requirements of this part.
