
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### ยง 71.11 Administrative record, public participation, and administrative review.
####### Reopening of the public comment period.

(h)(1) The permitting authority may order the public comment period reopened if the procedures of paragraph (h) of this section could expedite the decision making process. When the public comment period is reopened under paragraph (h) of this section, all persons, including applicants, who believe any condition of a draft permit is inappropriate or that the permitting authority's initial decision to deny an application, terminate a permit, or prepare a draft permit is inappropriate, must submit all reasonably available factual grounds supporting their position, including all supporting material, by a date not less than 30 days after public notice under paragraph (h)(2) of this section, set by the permitting authority. Thereafter, any person may file a written response to the material filed by any other person, by a date, not less than 20 days after the date set for filing of the material, set by the permitting authority.

(2) Public notice of any comment period under this paragraph (h) shall identify the issues to which the requirements of paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section shall apply.

(3) On its own motion or on the request of any person, the permitting authority may direct that the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section shall apply during the initial comment period where it reasonably appears that issuance of the permit will be contested and that applying the requirements of paragraph (h)(1) of this section will substantially expedite the decision making process. The notice of the draft permit shall state whenever this has been done.

(4) A comment period of longer than 30 days may be necessary in complicated proceedings to give commenters a reasonable opportunity to comply with the requirements of this section. Commenters may request longer comment periods and they may be granted to the extent the permitting authority finds it necessary.

(5) If any data, information, or arguments submitted during the public comment period appear to raise substantial new questions concerning a permit, the permitting authority may take one or more of the following actions:

(i) Prepare a new draft permit, appropriately modified;

(ii) Prepare a revised statement of basis, and reopen the comment period; or

(iii) Reopen or extend the comment period to give interested persons an opportunity to comment on the information or arguments submitted.

(6) Comments filed during the reopened comment period shall be limited to the substantial new questions that caused the reopening. The public notice shall define the scope of the reopening.

(7) Public notice of any of the above actions shall be issued under paragraph (d) of this section.
