
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.21 Program overview.

(a) The regulations in this subpart provide for a limited, Federal, title V, permit program to establish alternative emission limitations for early reductions sources that have demonstrated qualifying reductions of hazardous air pollutants under section 112(i)(5) of the Act. A permit issued under this subpart which establishes such an enforceable alternative emission limitation shall grant all emissions units in the early reductions source a six-year extension from otherwise applicable dates of compliance for standards promulgated under section 112(d) of the Act.

(b) After approval of a State's comprehensive permit program pursuant to title V of the Act, the Administrator may continue to issue specialty permits under this subpart only under the following circumstances:

(1) The early reductions source filed a permit application under this subpart before the State obtained approval of a comprehensive title V permit program but the permit had not been finally issued at the time of State program approval; or

(2) The early reductions source will be required to file an early reductions permit application under ยง 71.24(b) before a comprehensive permit application is required by the State under the approved program.

(c) When a circumstance described in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section occurs, the primary consideration in the Administrator's decision to issue a specialty permit is the degree of delay anticipated by deferring to the State for permit issuance.

(d) A Permit issued to an early reductions source under this subpart shall have a term not to exceed five years. Such a specialty permit shall be incorporated into a comprehensive title V permit subsequently issued to the facility containing the early reductions source, without reopening or revision of the specialty permit except as provided in ยง 71.26(e).

(e) Issuance of a specialty permit under this subpart does not relieve a source from an obligation to file a timely and complete comprehensive permit application as required under an approved comprehensive title V permit program.
