
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart A - Operating Permits
###### § 71.11 Administrative record, public participation, and administrative review.
####### Public petitions to the Permitting Authority.

(n)(1) Any interested person (including the permittee) may petition the permitting authority to reopen a permit for cause, and the permitting authority may commence a permit reopening on its own initiative. However, the permitting authority shall not revise, revoke and reissue, or terminate a permit except for the reasons specified in § 71.7(f)(1) or § 71.6(a)(6)(i). All requests shall be in writing and shall contain facts or reasons supporting the request.

(2) If the permitting authority decides the request is not justified, it shall send the requester a brief written response giving a reason for the decision. Denials of requests for revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination are not subject to public notice, comment, or hearings. Denials by the permitting authority may be informally appealed to the Environmental Appeals Board by a letter briefly setting forth the relevant facts. The Board may direct the permitting authority to begin revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination proceedings under paragraph (n)(3) of this section. The appeal shall be considered denied if the Board takes no action within 60 days after receiving it. This informal appeal is, under 42 U.S.C. 307, a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of EPA action in denying a request for revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination.

(3) If the permitting authority decides the request is justified and that cause exists to revise, revoke and reissue or terminate a permit, it shall initiate proceedings to reopen the permit pursuant to § 71.7(f) or § 71.7(g).
