
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.25 Permit content.
####### Reporting requirements.

(5)The permit shall require the following:

(i) Submittal of reports of all required monitoring at least every 6 months. All instances of deviations from permit requirements must be clearly identified in such reports; and

(ii) Prompt reporting of any deviations from permit requirements, including those attributable to upset conditions as defined in the permit. Such reports shall include the probable cause of such deviations and any corrective actions or preventive measures taken. The Administrator will define "prompt" in the permit for each situation and will do so in relation to the degree and type of deviation likely to occur.

(6) A severability clause to ensure the continued validity of the various permit requirements in the event of a challenge to any portions of the permit.

(7) Provisions stating the following:

(i) The permittee must comply with all conditions of part 71 permit issued under this subpart. A violation of an alternative emission limitation, as well as any other requirement established in a permit issued under this subpart, is enforceable pursuant to the authority of section 113 of the Act, notwithstanding any demonstration of continuing 90 percent (95 percent in the case of hazardous air pollutants which are particulates) emission reduction over the entire early reductions source. Any permit noncompliance constitutes a violation of the Act and is grounds for enforcement action or for permit termination, revocation and reissuance, or modification;

(ii) Need to halt or reduce activity not a defense. It shall not be a defense for a permittee in an enforcement action that it would have been necessary to halt or reduce the permitted activity in order to maintain compliance with the conditions of this permit;

(iii) The permit may be revised, revoked, reopened, and reissued, or terminated for cause. The filing of a request by the permittee for a permit revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination, or of a notification of planned changes or anticipated noncompliance does not stay any permit condition;

(iv) The permit does not convey any property rights of any sort, or any exclusive privilege; and

(v) The permittee shall furnish to the Administrator, within a reasonable time, any information that the Administrator may request in writing to determine whether cause exists for revising the permit, revoking and reissuing, or terminating the permit or to determine compliance with the permit. Upon request, the permittee shall also furnish to the Administrator copies of records required to be kept by the permitee.

(8) Terms and conditions for reasonably anticipated operating scenarios identified by the early reductions source in its application as approved by the Administrator. Such terms and conditions:

(i) Shall require the early reductions source, contemporaneously with making a change from one operating scenario to another, to record in a log at the permitted facility a record of the scenario under which it is operating. Provided that an emitting unit is monitored in a way that provides contemporaneous identification that a change to a particular alternate scenario has occurred, no notice to the Administrator is required. Otherwise, when such a change is made, the permittee at the beginning of the following week shall place in regular mail to the Administrator notice that a change to a particular alternate operating scenario has occurred; and

(ii) Must ensure that the terms and conditions of each such alternative scenario meet the alternative emission limitation and the requirements of this subpart.

(9) Terms and conditions, if the permit applicant requests them, for the trading of hazardous air pollutant emissions increases and decreases among emissions units within the early reductions source without permit revision or case-by-case approval of each emissions trade, provided that:

(i) Such terms and conditions include all terms required under paragraphs (a) and (c) of this section to determine compliance;

(ii) The changes in hazardous air pollutant emissions do not exceed the emissions allowable under the permit;

(iii) The changes in hazardous air pollutant emissions are not modifications under any provision of title I of the Act;

(iv) The Administrator determines that the emissions are quantifiable and that replicable procedures or other practical means exist to enforce the emission trades; and

(v) The early reductions source owner or operator provides the Administrator written notification at least 7 days in advance of the proposed changes and includes in the notification a description of the change in emissions that will occur, when the change will occur, and how the increases and decreases in emissions will comply with the alternative emission limitation and other terms and conditions of the permit.
