
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### § 71.26 Permit issuance, reopenings, and revisions.
####### Action on application.

(a)(1) A permit or permit revision may be issued only if all of the following conditions have been met:

(i) The Administrator has received a complete application for a permit or permit revision;

(ii) The requirements for public participation under § 71.27 have been followed; and

(iii) The conditions of the proposed permit or permit revision meet all the requirements of § 71.25 and provide for compliance with an alternative emission limitation reflecting the emissions reduction which qualified the early reductions source for a compliance extension under part 63, subpart D, of this chapter.

(2) The Administrator will take final action on each permit application (including a request for permit revision) within 12 months after receiving a complete application, except that final action may be delayed where an applicant fails to provide additional information in a timely manner as requested by the Administrator under § 71.24(c).

(3) The Administrator will promptly provide notice to the applicant of whether the application is complete. Unless the Administrator requests additional information or otherwise notifies the applicant of incompleteness within 45 days of receipt of an application, the application shall be deemed complete. For revisions that qualify as administrative amendments and are processed through the procedures of paragraph (c) of this section, a completeness determination need not be made.

(4) If a source submits a timely and complete application for permit issuance, the source's failure to have a title V permit for purposes of any requirements under section 112 pertaining to the early reductions source is not a violation of this part until the Administrator takes final action on the permit application. This protection shall cease to apply if, subsequent to the completeness determination made pursuant to paragraph (a)(3) of this section, and as required by § 71.24(d), the applicant fails to submit by the deadline specified in writing by the Administrator any additional information identified as being needed to process the application.
