
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.26 Permit issuance, reopenings, and revisions.
####### Administrative permit amendment procedures.

(2)Administrative permit amendments may be made to a permit issued under this subpart using the following procedures:

(i) The source shall submit to the Administrator an application containing a proposed addendum to the source's permit. The application shall demonstrate how the proposed change meets one of the criteria for administrative amendments set forth in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this section, and include certification by the responsible official consistent with ยง 71.24(f) that the change is eligible for administrative amendment procedures. The addendum shall:

(A) Identify the terms of the part 71, subpart B permit the source proposes to change;

(B) Propose new permit terms consistent with the provisions of this subpart applicable to the change;

(C) Designate the addendum as having been processed under the procedures of this paragraph (c); and

(D) Specify that the addendum will be effective 60 days from the date of the Administrator's receipt, unless the Administrator disapproves the change within such period.

(ii) The Administrator will allow the source to implement the requested change immediately upon making all required submittals, including the proposed addendum.

(iii) The proposed addendum will become effective 60 days after the Administrator receives the submittal, provided the Administrator has not disapproved the request in writing before the end of the 60-day period. The Administrator shall record the change by attaching a copy of the addendum to the part 71, subpart B permit.

(iv) If the Administrator disapproves the change, he or she shall notify the source of the reasons for the disapproval in a timely manner. Upon receiving such notice, the source shall comply with the terms of the permit that it had proposed to change, and thereafter the proposed addendum shall not take effect.

(v) The process in this paragraph (c) may also be used for changes initiated by the Administrator that meet the criteria under paragraphs (c)(1) (i), (ii), and (iv) of this section. For such changes, the Administrator will notify the source of the proposed change and its effective date, and shall attach a copy of the change to the existing permit. On the effective date of the proposed change, the source shall comply with the provisions of the proposed change.

(vi) The permit shield under ยง 71.25(d) may not extend to administrative amendments processed under this paragraph (c)(2).
