
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.26 Permit issuance, reopenings, and revisions.
####### EPA review under State programs for issuing specialty permits.

(f)(1) If the Administrator approves a State program for the implementation of this subpart, the State program shall require that the Administrator receive a copy of each permit application (including any application for permit revision) each proposed permit, and each final permit issued pursuant to this subpart. The State program may require that the applicant provide a copy of any permit application directly to the Administrator.

(2) The Administrator will object to the issuance of any proposed permit determined by the Administrator not to be in compliance with requirements under this subpart or part 63 of this chapter. If the Administrator objects in writing within 45 days of receipt of a proposed permit and all necessary supporting documentation, the State shall not issue the permit.

(3) Any EPA objection to a proposed permit will include a statement of the Administrator's reasons for objection and a description of the terms and conditions that the permit must include to respond to the objections. The Administrator will provide the permit applicant a copy of the objection.

(4) Failure of the State to do any of the following also shall constitute grounds for an objection:

(i) Comply with paragraph (f)(1) of this section;

(ii) Submit any information necessary to review adequately the proposed permit; or

(iii) Process the permit under procedures approved to meet paragraph (f) of this section.

(5) If the State fails, within 90 days after the date of an objection under paragraph (f)(2) of this section, to revise and submit a proposed permit in response to the objection, the Administrator will issue or deny the permit in accordance with the requirements of this subpart.
