
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.27 Public participation and appeal.
####### e.g.,

(E) Persons on a mailing list, including those who request in writing to be on the list. As part of this requirement, the Administrator shall notify the public of the opportunity to be put on the mailing list by way of generally accepted methods (hyperlink sign-up function or radio button on an agency Web site, sign-up sheet at a public hearing, etc.) that enable interested parties to subscribe to the mailing list. The Administrator may update the mailing list from time to time by requesting written indication of continued interest from those listed. The Administrator may delete from the list the name of any person who fails to respond to such a request within a reasonable timeframe;

(F) Any unit of local government with authority for regulating air pollution and having jurisdiction over the area where the early reductions source is located and to each State agency having any authority for regulating air pollution under State law with respect to the operation of such source.

(ii) By posting a notice on a public Web site identified by the Administrator for the duration of the public comment period. The notice shall be consistent with paragraph (d)(4)(i) of this section and be accompanied by a copy of the draft permit.

(iii) By any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice of the action in question to the persons potentially affected by it, including press releases or any other forum or medium to elicit public participation.
