
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### § 71.27 Public participation and appeal.
####### Revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination of permits.

(a)(1) Permits may be revised, revoked and reissued, or terminated either at the request of any interested person (including the permittee) or upon the Administrator's initiative. However, permits may only be revised, revoked and reissued, or terminated for the reasons specified in §§ 71.25(a)(7) and 71.26(e). All requests shall be in writing and shall contain facts or reasons supporting the request.

(2) If the Administrator decides the request is not justified, he or she shall send the requester a brief written response giving a reason for the decision. Denials of requests for revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination are not subject to public notice, comment, or hearings. Denials by the Administrator may be informally appealed to the Environmental Appeals Board by a letter briefly setting forth the relevant facts. The Board may direct the Administrator to begin revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination proceedings under paragraph (a)(3) of this section. The appeal shall be considered denied if the Board takes no action within 60 days after receiving it. This informal appeal is, under 42 U.S.C. 307, a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of EPA action in denying a request for revision, revocation and reissuance, or termination.

(3)(i) Except in the case of administrative amendment of a permit, if the Administrator tentatively decides to revise or revoke and reissue a permit under §§ 71.25(a)(7) and 71.26(e), he or she shall prepare a draft permit under paragraph (b) of this section incorporating the proposed changes. The Administrator may request additional information and, in the case of a revised permit, shall require the submission of an updated application. In the case of revoked and reissued permits, the Administrator shall require the submission of a new application.

(ii) In a permit revision under this subsection, only those conditions to be revised shall be reopened when a new draft permit is prepared. All other aspects of the existing permit shall remain in effect for the duration of the unrevised permit. When a permit is revoked and reissued under this subsection, the entire permit is reopened just as if the permit had expired and was being reissued. During any revocation and reissuance proceeding the permittee shall comply with all conditions of the existing permit until a new final permit is reissued.

(4) If the Administrator tentatively decides to terminate a permit under §§ 71.25(a)(7) and 71.26(e), he or she shall issue a notice of intent to terminate. A notice of intent to terminate is a type of draft permit which follows the same procedures as any draft permit prepared under paragraph (b) of this section. A notice of intent to terminate shall not be issued if the Administrator and the permittee agree to termination in the course of transferring permit responsibility to an approved State under § 71.21(e).

(5) Any request by the permittee for revision to an existing permit shall be treated as a permit application and shall be processed in accordance with all requirements of § 71.24.
