
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.27 Public participation and appeal.
####### Reopening of the public comment period.

(h)(1)(i) The Administrator may order the public comment period reopened if the procedures of this paragraph (h) could expedite the decisionmaking process. When the public comment period is reopened under this paragraph (h), all persons, including applicants, who believe any condition of a draft permit is inappropriate or that the Administrator's tentative decision to deny an application, terminate a permit, or prepare a draft permit is inappropriate, must submit all reasonably available factual grounds supporting their position, including all supporting material, by a date, not less than 60 days after public notice under paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section, set by the Administrator. Thereafter, any person may file a written response to the material filed by any other person, by a date, not less than 20 days after the date set for filing of the material, set by the Administrator.

(ii) Public notice of any comment period under this paragraph shall identify the issues to which the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section shall apply.

(iii) On his or her own motion or on the request of any person, the Administrator may direct that the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section shall apply during the initial comment period where it reasonably appears that issuance of the permit will be contested and that applying the requirements of paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section will substantially expedite the decisionmaking process. The notice of the draft permit shall state whenever this has been done.

(iv) A comment period of longer than 60 days will often be necessary in complicated proceedings to give commenters a reasonable opportunity to comply with the requirements of this subsection. Commenters may request longer comment periods and they shall be granted to the extent they appear necessary.

(2) If any data, information, or arguments submitted during the public comment period appear to raise substantial new questions concerning a permit, the Administrator may take one or more of the following actions:

(i) Prepare a new draft permit, appropriately modified;

(ii) Prepare a revised statement of basis, a fact sheet or revised fact sheet, and reopen the comment period; or

(iii) Reopen or extend the comment period to give interested persons an opportunity to comment on the information or arguments submitted.

(3) Comments filed during the reopened comment period shall be limited to the substantial new questions that caused its reopening. The public notice shall define the scope of the reopening.

(4) Public notice of any of the above actions shall be issued under paragraph (d) of this section.
