
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.27 Public participation and appeal.
####### Public hearings.

(f)(1)(i) The Administrator shall hold a hearing whenever he or she finds, on the basis of requests, a significant degree of public interest in a draft permit or permit revision.

(ii) The Administrator may also hold a public hearing at his or her discretion, whenever, for instance, such a hearing might clarify one or more issues involved in the permit decision.

(iii) Public notice of the hearing shall be given as specified in paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) Whenever a public hearing is held, the Administrator shall designate a Presiding Officer for the hearing who shall be responsible for its scheduling and orderly conduct.

(3) Any person may submit oral or written statements and data concerning the draft permit or permit revision. Reasonable limits may be set upon the time allowed for oral statements, and the submission of statements in writing may be required. The public comment period under paragraph (d) of this section shall be automatically extended to the close of any public hearing under this subsection. The hearing officer may also extend the comment period by so stating at the hearing.

(4) A tape recording or written transcript of the hearing shall be made available to the public.
