
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 71 - FEDERAL OPERATING PERMIT PROGRAMS
##### Subpart B - Permits for Early Reductions Sources
###### ยง 71.27 Public participation and appeal.
####### Administrative record for final permit.

(k)(1) The Administrator shall base final permit decisions on the administrative record defined in this paragraph (k).

(2) The administrative record for any final permit shall consist of:

(i) All comments received during the public comment period, including any extension or reopening;

(ii) The tape or transcript of any hearing(s) held;

(iii) Any written material submitted at such a hearing;

(iv) The response to comments required by paragraph (j) of this section and any new materials placed in the record under paragraph (j) of this section;

(v) Other documents contained in the supporting file for the permit;

(vi) The final permit;

(vii) The application and any supporting data furnished by the applicant;

(viii) The draft permit or notice of intent to deny the application or to terminate the permit;

(ix) The statement of basis for the draft permit;

(x) All documents cited in the statement of basis; and

(xi) Other documents contained in the supporting file for the draft permit.

(3) The additional documents required under paragraph (k)(2) of this section should be added to the record as soon as possible after their receipt or publication by EPA. The record shall be complete on the date the final permit is issued.

(4) This section applies to all final permits.

(5) Material readily available at the issuing Regional Office, or published materials which are generally available and which are included in the administrative record under the standards of paragraph (j) of this section ("response to comments"), need not be physically included in the same file as the rest of the record as long as it is specifically referred to in the statement of basis or fact sheet or in the response to comments.
