
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart A - Acid Rain Program General Provisions
###### ยง 72.2 Definitions.
####### Continuous emission monitoring system or CEMS

means the equipment required by part 75 of this chapter used to sample, analyze, measure, and provide, by means of readings recorded at least once every 15 minutes (using an automated data acquisition and handling system (DAHS)), a permanent record of SO, NO, or COemissions or stack gas volumetric flow rate. The following are the principal types of continuous emission monitoring systems required under part 75 of this chapter. Sections 75.10 through 75.18, and ยง 75.71(a) of this chapter indicate which type(s) of CEMS is required for specific applications:

(1) A sulfur dioxide monitoring system, consisting of an SOpollutant concentration monitor and an automated DAHS. An SOmonitoring system provides a permanent, continuous record of SOemissions in units of parts per million (ppm);

(2) A flow monitoring system, consisting of a stack flow rate monitor and an automated DAHS. A flow monitoring system provides a permanent, continuous record of stack gas volumetric flow rate, in units of standard cubic feet per hour (scfh);

(3) A nitrogen oxides (NO) emission rate (or NO-diluent) monitoring system, consisting of a NOpollutant concentration monitor, a diluent gas (COor O) monitor, and an automated DAHS. A NO-diluent monitoring system provides a permanent, continuous record of: NOconcentration in units of parts per million (ppm), diluent gas concentration in units of percent Oor CO(% Oor CO), and NOemission rate in units of pounds per million British thermal units (lb/mmBtu);

(4) A nitrogen oxides concentration monitoring system, consisting of a NOpollutant concentration monitor and an automated DAHS. A NOconcentration monitoring system provides a permanent, continuous record of NOemissions in units of parts per million (ppm). This type of CEMS is used only in conjunction with a flow monitoring system to determine NOmass emissions (in lb/hr) under subpart H of part 75 of this chapter;

(5) A carbon dioxide monitoring system, consisting of a COpollutant concentration monitor (or an oxygen monitor plus suitable mathematical equations from which the COconcentration is derived) and the automated DAHS. A carbon dioxide monitoring system provides a permanent, continuous record of COemissions in units of percent CO(% CO); and

(6) A moisture monitoring system, as defined in ยง 75.11(b)(2) of this chapter. A moisture monitoring system provides a permanent, continuous record of the stack gas moisture content, in units of percent HO (% HO)
