
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart A - Acid Rain Program General Provisions
###### ยง 72.7 New units exemption.
####### Special Provisions.

(f)(1) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the designated representative of a unit exempt under this section shall:

(i) Comply with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section for all periods for which the unit is exempt under this section; and

(ii) Comply with the requirements of the Acid Rain Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.

(2) For any period for which a unit is exempt under this section:

(i) For purposes of applying parts 70 and 71 of this chapter, the unit shall not be treated as an affected unit under the Acid Rain Program and shall continue to be subject to any other applicable requirements under parts 70 and 71 of this chapter.

(ii) The unit shall not be eligible to be an opt-in source under part 74 of chapter.

(3) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under this section shall retain at the source that includes the unit records demonstrating that the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of the period, in writing by the Administrator or the permitting authority.

(i) Such records shall include, for each delivery of fuel to the unit or for fuel delivered to the unit continuously by pipeline, the type of fuel, the sulfur content, and the sulfur content of each sample taken.

(ii) The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section are met.

(4) Loss of exemption. (i) On the earliest of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraphs (b), (c), or (e) of this section shall lose its exemption and for purposes of applying parts 70 and 71 of this chapter, shall be treated as an affected unit under the Acid Rain Program:

(A) The date on which the unit first serves one or more generators with total nameplate capacity in excess of 25 MWe;

(B) The date on which the unit burns any coal or coal-derived fuel except for coal-derived gaseous fuel with a total sulfur content no greater than natural gas; or

(C) January 1 of the year following the year in which the annual average sulfur content for gaseous fuel burned at the unit exceeds 0.05 percent by weight (as determined under paragraph (d) of this section) or for nongaseous fuel burned at the unit exceeds 0.05 percent by weight (as determined under paragraph (d) of this section).

(ii) Notwithstanding ยง 72.30(b) and (c), the designated representative for a unit that loses its exemption under this section shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application on the later of January 1, 1998 or 60 days after the first date on which the unit is no longer exempt.

(iii) For the purpose of applying monitoring requirements under part 75 of this chapter, a unit that loses its exemption under this section shall be treated as a new unit that commenced commercial operation on the first date on which the unit is no longer exempt.
