
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart A - Acid Rain Program General Provisions
###### § 72.8 Retired units exemption.
####### Special Provisions.

(d)(1) A unit exempt under this section shall not emit any sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides starting on the date that the exemption takes effect. The owners and operators of the unit will be allocated allowances in accordance with subpart B of part 73 of this chapter. If the unit is a Phase I unit, for each calendar year in Phase I, the designated representative of the unit shall submit a Phase I permit application in accordance with subparts C and D of this part 72 and an annual certification report in accordance with §§ 72.90 through 72.92 and is subject to §§ 72.95 and 72.96.

(2) A unit exempt under this section shall not resume operation unless the designated representative of the source that includes the unit submits a complete Acid Rain permit application under § 72.31 for the unit not less than 24 months prior to the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the unit is first to resume operation.

(3) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the designated representative of a unit exempt under this section shall comply with the requirements of the Acid Rain Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.

(4) For any period for which a unit is exempt under this section:

(i) For purposes of applying parts 70 and 71 of this chapter, the unit shall not be treated as an affected unit under the Acid Rain Program and shall continue to be subject to any other applicable requirements under parts 70 and 71 of this chapter.

(ii) The unit shall not be eligible to be an opt-in source under part 74 of chapter.

(5) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under this section shall retain at the source that includes the unit records demonstrating that the unit is permanently retired. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of the period, in writing by the Administrator or the permitting authority. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit is permanently retired.

(6) Loss of exemption. (i) On the earlier of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraph (b) or (c) of this section shall lose its exemption and for purposes of applying parts 70 and 71 of this chapter, shall be treated as an affected unit under the Acid Rain Program:

(A) The date on which the designated representative submits an Acid Rain permit application under paragraph (d)(2) of this section; or

(B) The date on which the designated representative is required under paragraph (d)(2) of this section to submit an Acid Rain permit application.

(ii) For the purpose of applying monitoring requirements under part 75 of this chapter, a unit that loses its exemption under this section shall be treated as a new unit that commenced commercial operation on the first date on which the unit resumes operation.
