
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart A - Acid Rain Program General Provisions
###### § 72.9 Standard requirements.
####### Sulfur Dioxide Requirements.

(c)(1) The owners and operators of each source and each affected unit at the source shall:

(i) Hold allowances, as of the allowance transfer deadline, in the source's compliance account (after deductions under § 73.34(c) of this chapter) not less than the total annual emissions of sulfur dioxide for the previous calendar year from the affected units at the source; and

(ii) Comply with the applicable Acid Rain emissions limitation for sulfur dioxide.

(2) Each ton of sulfur dioxide emitted in excess of the Acid Rain emissions limitations for sulfur dioxide shall constitute a separate violation of the Act.

(3) An affected unit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section as follows:

(i) Starting January 1, 1995, an affected unit under § 72.6(a)(1);

(ii) Starting on or after January 1, 1995 in accordance with §§ 72.41 and 72.43, an affected unit under § 72.6(a) (2) or (3) that is a substitution or compensating unit;

(iii) Starting January 1, 2000, an affected unit under § 72.6(a)(2) that is not a substitution or compensating unit; or

(iv) Starting on the later of January 1, 2000 or the deadline for monitor certification under part 75 of this chapter, an affected unit under § 72.6(a)(3) that is not a substitution or compensating unit.

(4) Allowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred among Allowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with the Acid Rain Program.

(5) An allowance shall not be deducted, in order to comply with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section, prior to the calendar year for which the allowance was allocated.

(6) An allowance allocated by the Administrator under the Acid Rain Program is a limited authorization to emit sulfur dioxide in accordance with the Acid Rain Program. No provision of the Acid Rain Program, the Acid Rain permit application, the Acid Rain permit, or an exemption under §§ 72.7 or 72.8 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.

(7) An allowance allocated by the Administrator under the Acid Rain Program does not constitute a property right.
