
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart A - Acid Rain Program General Provisions
###### § 72.8 Retired units exemption.

(a) This section applies to any affected unit (except for an opt-in source) that is permanently retired.

(b)(1) Any affected unit (except for an opt-in source) that is permanently retired shall be exempt from the Acid Rain Program, except for the provisions of this section, §§ 72.2 through 72.6, §§ 72.10 through 72.13, and subpart B of part 73 of this chapter.

(2) The exemption under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall become effective on January 1 of the first full calendar year during which the unit is permanently retired. By December 31 of the first year that the unit is to be exempt under this section, the designated representative (authorized in accordance with subpart B of this part), or, if no designated representative has been authorized, a certifying official of each owner of the unit shall submit a statement to the permitting authority otherwise responsible for administering a Phase II Acid Rain permit for the unit. If the Administrator is not the permitting authority, a copy of the statement shall be submitted to the Administrator. The statement shall state (in a format prescribed by the Administrator) that the unit is permanently retired and will comply with the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) After receipt of the notice under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the permitting authority shall amend under § 72.83 the operating permit covering the source at which the unit is located, if the source has such a permit, to add the provisions and requirements of the exemption under paragraphs (b)(1) and (d) of this section.

(c) A unit that was issued a written exemption under this section and that is permanently retired shall be exempt from the Acid Rain Program, except for the provisions of this section, §§ 72.2 through 72.6, §§ 72.10 through 72.13, and subpart B of part 73 of this chapter, and shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section in lieu of the requirements set forth in the written exemption. The permitting authority shall amend under § 72.83 the operating permit covering the source at which the unit is located, if the source has such a permit, to add the provisions and requirements of the exemption under this paragraph (c) and paragraph (d) of this section.
