
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart A - Acid Rain Program General Provisions
###### ยง 72.9 Standard requirements.
####### Liability.

(g)(1) Any person who knowingly violates any requirement or prohibition of the Acid Rain Program, a complete Acid Rain permit application, an Acid Rain permit, or an exemption under ยง 72.7 or ยง 72.8, including any requirement for the payment of any penalty owed to the United States, shall be subject to enforcement pursuant to section 113(c) of the Act.

(2) Any person who knowingly makes a false, material statement in any record, submission, or report under the Acid Rain Program shall be subject to criminal enforcement pursuant to section 113(c) of the Act and 18 U.S.C. 1001.

(3) No permit revision shall excuse any violation of the requirements of the Acid Rain Program that occurs prior to the date that the revision takes effect.

(4) Each affected source and each affected unit shall meet the requirements of the Acid Rain Program.

(5) Any provision of the Acid Rain Program that applies to an affected source (including a provision applicable to the designated representative of an affected source) shall also apply to the owners and operators of such source and of the affected units at the source.

(6) Any provision of the Acid Rain Program that applies to an affected unit (including a provision applicable to the designated representative of an affected unit) shall also apply to the owners and operators of such unit.

(7) Each violation of a provision of this part, parts 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, and 78 of this chapter, by an affected source or affected unit, or by an owner or operator or designated representative of such source or unit, shall be a separate violation of the Act.
