
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart C - Acid Rain Permit Applications
###### § 72.30 Requirement to apply.
####### Phase II.

(2)(i) For any source with an existing unit under § 72.6(a)(2), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit during Phase II to the permitting authority on or before January 1, 1996.

(ii) For any source with a new unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(i), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority at least 24 months before the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the unit commences operation.

(iii) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(ii), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority at least 24 months before the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the unit begins to serve a generator with a nameplate capacity greater than 25 MWe.

(iv) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(iii), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority at least 24 months before the later of January 1, 2000 or the date on which the auxiliary firing commences operation.

(v) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(iv), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the three calendar year period in which the unit sold to a utility power distribution system an annual average of more than one-third of its potential electrical output capacity and more than 219,000 MWe-hrs actual electric output (on a gross basis).

(vi) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(v), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the calendar year in which the facility fails to meet the definition of qualifying facility.

(vii) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(vi), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the calendar year in which the facility fails to meet the definition of an independent power production facility.

(viii) For any source with a unit under § 72.6(a)(3)(vii), the designated representative shall submit a complete Acid Rain permit application governing such unit to the permitting authority before the later of January 1, 1998 or March 1 of the year following the three calendar year period in which the incinerator consumed 20 percent or more fossil fuel (on a Btu basis).
