
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart C - Acid Rain Permit Applications
###### § 72.33 Identification of dispatch system.

(a) Every Phase I unit shall be treated as part of a dispatch system for purposes of §§ 72.91 and 72.92 in accordance with this section.

(b)(1) The designated representatives of all affected units in a group of all units and generators that are interconnected and centrally dispatched and that are included in the same utility system, holding company, or power pool, may jointly submit to the Administrator a complete identification of dispatch system.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section, each unit or generator may be included in only one dispatch system.

(3) Any identification of dispatch system must be submitted by January 30 of the first year for which the identification is to be in effect. A designated representative may request, and the Administrator may grant at his or her discretion, an exemption allowing the submission of an identification of dispatch system after the otherwise applicable deadline for such submission.

(c) A complete identification of dispatch system shall include the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(1) The name of the dispatch system.

(2) The list of all units and generators (including sulfur-free generators) in the dispatch system.

(3) The first calendar year for which the identification is to be in effect.

(4) The following statement: "I certify that, except as otherwise required under a petition as approved under 40 CFR 72.33(f), the units and generators listed herein are and will continue to be interconnected and centrally dispatched, and will be treated as a dispatch system under 40 CFR 72.91 and 72.92, during the period that this identification of dispatch system is in effect. During such period, all information concerning these units and generators and contained in any submissions under 40 CFR 72.91 and 72.92 by me and the other designated representatives of these units shall be consistent and shall conform with the data in the dispatch system data reports under 40 CFR 72.92(b). I am aware of, and will comply with, the requirements imposed under 40 CFR 72.33(e)(2)."

(5) The signatures of the designated representative for each affected unit in the dispatch system.

(d) In order to change a unit's current dispatch system, complete identifications of dispatch system shall be submitted for the unit's current dispatch system and the unit's new dispatch system, reflecting the change.

(e)(1) Any unit or generator not listed in a complete identification of dispatch system that is in effect shall treat its utility system as its dispatch system and, if such unit or generator is listed in the NADB, shall treat the utility system reported under the data field "UTILNAME" of the NADB as its utility system.

(2) During the period that the identification of dispatch system is in effect all information that concerns the units and generators in a given dispatch system and that is contained in any submissions under §§ 72.91 and 72.92 by designated representative of these units shall be consistent and shall conform with the data in the dispatch system data reports under § 72.92(b). If this requirement is not met, the Administrator may reject all such submissions and require the designated representatives to make the submissions under §§ 72.91 and 72.92 (including the dispatch system data report) treating the utility system of each unit or generator as its respective dispatch system and treating the identification of dispatch system as no longer in effect.

(f)(1) Notwithstanding paragraph (e)(1) of this section or any submission of an identification of dispatch system under paragraphs (b) or (d) of this section, the designated representative of a Phase I unit with two or more owners may petition the Administrator to treat, as the dispatch system for an owner's portion of the unit, the dispatch system of another unit.

(i) The owner's portion of the unit shall be based on one of the following apportionment methods:
