
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.41 Phase I substitution plans.
####### Administrator's action.

(d)(1) If the Administrator approves a substitution plan, he or she will allocate allowances to the Allowance Tracking System accounts of the units under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and substitution units, as provided in the approved plan, upon issuance of an Acid Rain permit containing the plan, except that if the substitution plan is conditionally approved, the allowances will be allocated upon revision of the permit to activate the plan.

(2) In no event shall allowances be allocated to a substitution unit, under an approved substitution plan, for any year in excess of the sum calculated and applicable to that year under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section, as adjusted by the Administrator in approving the plan.

(3) Where, as of November 15, 1990, a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covers the unit for any year during 1995-1999, the Administrator will specify on a case-by-case basis a method for using unit-specific and non-unit-specific emissions limitations in allocating allowances to the substitution unit. The specified method will not treat a non-unit-specific emissions limitation as a unit-specific emissions limitation and will not result in substitution units retaining allowances allocated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for emissions reductions necessary to meet a non-unit- specific emissions limitation. Such method may require an end-of-year review and the adjustment of the allowances allocated to the substitution unit and may require the designated representative of the substitution unit to surrender allowances by the allowance transfer deadline of the year that is subject to the review. Any surrendered allowances shall have the same or an earlier compliance use date as the allowances originally allocated for the year, and the designated representative may identify the serial numbers of the allowances to be deducted. In the absence of such identification, such allowances will be deducted on a first-in, first-out basis under ยง 73.35(c)(2) of this chapter.
