
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.40 General.
####### Conditional Approval.,provided

(c)In the compliance plan, the designated representative of an affected unit may propose, in accordance with this subpart, any Acid Rain compliance option for conditional approval, except a Phase I extension plan;that an Acid Rain compliance option under section 407 of the Act may be conditionally proposed only to the extent provided in part 76 of this chapter.

(1) To activate a conditionally-approved Acid Rain compliance option, the designated representative shall notify the permitting authority in writing that the conditionally-approved compliance option will actually be pursued beginning January 1 of a specified year. If the conditionally approved compliance option includes a plan described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the designated representative of each source governed by the plan shall sign and certify the notification. Such notification shall be subject to the limitations on activation under subpart D of this part and part 76 of this chapter.

(2) The notification under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall specify the first calendar year and the last calendar year for which the conditionally approved Acid Rain compliance option is to be activated. A conditionally approved compliance option shall be activated, if at all, before the date of any enforceable milestone applicable to the compliance option. The date of activation of the compliance option shall not be a defense against failure to meet the requirements applicable to that compliance option during each calendar year for which the compliance option is activated.

(3) Upon submission of a notification meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section, the conditionally-approved Acid Rain compliance option becomes binding on the owners and operators and the designated representative of any unit governed by the conditionally-approved compliance option.

(4) A notification meeting the requirements of paragraphs (c) (1) and (2) of this section will revise the unit's permit in accordance with ยง 72.83 (administrative permit amendment).
