
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.41 Phase I substitution plans.
####### Termination.

(3)(i) A substitution plan shall be in effect only in Phase I for the calendar years specified in the plan or until the calendar year for which a termination of the plan takes effect, provided that no substitution plan shall be terminated, and no unit shall be de-designated as a substitution unit, before the end of Phase I if the substitution unit serves as a control unit under a Phase I extension plan.

(ii) To terminate a substitution plan for a given calendar year prior to the last year for which the plan was approved:

(A) A notification to terminate in accordance with ยง 72.40(d) shall be submitted no later than 60 days before the allowance transfer deadline applicable to the given year; and

(B) In the notification to terminate, the designated representative of each unit governed by the plan shall state that he or she surrenders for deduction from the unit's Allowance Tracking System account allowances equal in number to, and with the same or an earlier compliance use date as, those allocated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for all calendar years for which the plan is to be terminated. The designated representative may identify the serial numbers of the allowances to be deducted. In the absence of such identification, allowances will be deducted on a first-in, first-out basis under ยง 73.35(c)(2) of this chapter.

(iii) If the requirements of paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section are met and upon revision of the permit to terminate the substitution plan, the Administrator will deduct the allowances specified in paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(B) of this section. No substitution plan shall be terminated, and no unit shall be de-designated as a Phase I unit, unless such deduction is made.

(iv)(A) If there is a change in the ownership interest of the owners or operators of any unit under a substitution plan approved as meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section or a change in such owners' or operators' right to direct dispatch of electricity from a substitution unit under such a plan and the demonstration under paragraph (c)(5)(i) or (ii) of this section cannot be made, then the designated representatives of the units governed by this plan shall submit a notification to terminate the plan so that the plan will terminate as of January 1 of the calendar year during which the change is made.

(B) Where a substitution plan is approved as meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, if there is a change in the agreement under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section and a demonstration that the agreement, as changed, meets the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iii) cannot be made, then the designated representative of the units governed by the plan shall submit a notification to terminate the plan so that the plan will terminate as of January 1 of the calendar year during which the change is made. Where a substitution plan is approved as meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section, if the requirements of the first sentence of paragraph (e)(1)(iii)(A) of this section are not met during a calendar year, then the designated representative of the units governed by the plan shall submit a notification to terminate the plan so that the plan will terminate as of January 1 of such calendar year.

(C) If the plan is not terminated in accordance with paragraphs (e)(3)(iv)(A) or (B) of this section, the Administrator, on his or her own motion, will terminate the plan and deduct the allowances required to be surrendered under paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.
