
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.41 Phase I substitution plans.
####### Contents of a substitution plan.

(c)A complete substitution plan shall include the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(1) Identification of each unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and each substitution unit to be governed by the substitution plan. A unit shall not be a substitution unit in more than one substitution plan.

(2) Except where the designated representative requests conditional approval of the plan, the first calendar year and, if known, the last calendar year in which the substitution plan is to be in effect. Unless the designated representative specifies an earlier calendar year, the last calendar year will be deemed to be 1999.

(3) Demonstration that the total emissions reductions achieved under the substitution plan will be equal to or greater than the total emissions reductions that would have been achieved without the plan, as follows:

(i) For each substitution unit:

(A) The unit's baseline.

(B) Each of the following: the unit's 1985 actual SOemissions rate; the unit's 1985 allowable SOemissions rate; the unit's 1989 actual SOemissions rate; the unit's 1990 actual SOemissions rate; and, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covering the unit for 1995-1999. For purposes of determining the most stringent emissions limitation, applicable emissions limitations shall be converted to lbs/mmBtu in accordance with appendix B of this part. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995-1999, the most stringent emissions limitation shall be stated separately for each year.

(C) The lesser of: the unit's 1985 actual SOemissions rate; the unit's 1985 allowable SOemissions rate; the greater of the unit's 1989 or 1990 actual SOemissions rate; or, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covering the unit for 1995-99. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year during 1995-1999, the lesser of the emissions rates shall be determined separately for each year using the most stringent emissions limitation for that year.

(D) The product of the baseline in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(A) of this section and the emissions rate in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section, divided by 2000 lbs/ton. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year during 1995-1999, the product in the prior sentence shall be calculated separately for each year using the emissions rate determined for that year in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(C) of this section.

(ii)(A) The sum of the amounts in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(D) of this section for all substitution units to be governed by the plan. Except as provided in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section, this sum is the total number of allowances available each year under the substitution plan.

(B) Where the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation is not the same for every year during 1995-1999, the sum in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(A) of this section shall be calculated separately for each year using the amounts calculated for that year in paragraph (c)(3)(i)(D) of this section. Each separate sum is the total number of allowances available for the respective year under the substitution plan.

(iii) Where, as of November 15, 1990, a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covers the unit for any year during 1995-1999, the designated representative shall state each such limitation and propose a method for applying the unit-specific and non-unit-specific emissions limitations under paragraph (d) of this section.

(4) Distribution of substitution allowances. (i) A statement that the allowances in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section are not to be distributed to any units under paragraph (a)(1) of this section that are to be governed by the plan; or

(ii) A list showing any annual distribution of the allowances in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section from a substitution unit to a unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section that, under the plan, designates the substitution unit.

(5) A demonstration that the substitution plan meets the requirement that each unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section is under the control of the owner or operator of each unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section that designates the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section as a substitution unit. The demonstration shall be one of the following:

(i) If the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section has one or more owners or operators that have an aggregate percentage ownership interest of 50 percent or more in the capacity of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or the units have a common operator, a statement identifying such owners or operators and their aggregate percentage ownership interest in the capacity of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section or identifying the units' common operator. The designated representative shall submit supporting documentation upon request by the Administrator.

(ii) If the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section has one or more owners or operators that have an aggregate percentage ownership interest of at least 10 percent and less than 50 percent in the capacity of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the units do not have a common operator, a statement identifying such owners or operators and their aggregate percentage ownership interest in the capacity of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and stating that each such owner or operator has the contractual right to direct the dispatch of the electricity that, because of its ownership interest, it has the right to receive from the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The fact that the electricity that such owner or operator has the right to receive is centrally dispatched through a power pool will not be the basis for determining that the owner or operator does not have the contractual right to direct the dispatch of such electricity. The designated representative shall submit supporting documentation upon request by the Administrator.

(iii) A copy of an agreement that is binding on the owners and operators of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the owners and operators of the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, provides each of the following elements, and is supported by documentation meeting the requirements of paragraph (c)(6) of this section:

(A) The owners and operators of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must not allow the unit to emit sulfur dioxide in excess of a maximum annual average SOemissions rate (in lbs/mmBtu), specified in the agreement, for each year during the period that the substitution plan is in effect.

(B) The maximum annual average SOemissions rate for the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section shall not exceed 70 percent of the lesser of: the unit's 1985 actual SOemissions rate; the unit's 1985 allowable SOemissions rate; the greater of the unit's 1989 or 1990 actual SOemissions rate; the most stringent federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation, as of November 15, 1990, applicable to the unit in Phase I; or the lesser of the average actual SOemissions rate or the most stringent federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation for the unit for four consecutive quarters that immediately precede the 30-day period ending on the date the substitution plan is submitted to the Administrator. If the unit is covered by a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation in the four consecutive quarters or, as of November 15, 1990, in Phase I, the Administrator will determine, on a case-by-case basis, how to apply the non-unit-specific emissions limitation for purposes of determining whether the maximum annual average SOemissions rate meets the requirement of the prior sentence. If a non-unit-specific federally enforceable SOemissions limitation is not different from a non-unit-specific federally enforceable SOemissions limitation that was effective and applicable to the unit in 1985, the Administrator will apply the non-unit-specific SOemissions limitation by using the 1985 allowable SOemissions rate.

(C) For each year that the actual SOemissions rate of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section exceeds the maximum annual average SOemissions rate, the designated representative of the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section must surrender allowances for deduction from the Allowance Tracking System account of the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The designated representative shall surrender allowances authorizing emissions equal to the baseline of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section multiplied by the difference between the actual SOemissions rate of the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the maximum annual average SOemissions rate and divided by 2000 lbs/ton. The surrender shall be made by the allowance transfer deadline of the year of the exceedance, and the surrendered allowances shall have the same or an earlier compliance use date as the allowances allocated to the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section for that year. The designated representative may identify the serial numbers of the allowances to be deducted. In the absence of such identification, allowances will be deducted on a first-in, first-out basis under ยง 73.35(c)(2) of this chapter.

(D) The unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall designate a common designated representative during the period that the substitution plan is in effect. Having a common alternate designated representative shall not satisfy the requirement in the prior sentence.

(E) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section, the actual SOemissions rate for any year and the average actual SOemissions rate for any period shall be determined in accordance with part 75 of this chapter.

(6) A demonstration under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section shall include the following supporting documentation:

(i) The calculation of the average actual SOemissions rate and the most stringent federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation for the unit for the four consecutive quarters that immediately preceded the 30-day period ending on the date the substitution plan is submitted to the Administrator. To the extent that the four consecutive quarters include a quarter prior to January 1, 1995, the SOemissions rate for the quarter shall be determined applying the methodology for calculating SOemissions set forth in appendix C of this part. This methodology shall be applied using data submitted for the quarter to the Secretary of Energy on United States Department of Energy Form 767 or, if such data has not been submitted for the quarter, using the data prepared for such submission for the quarter.

(ii) A description of the actions that will be taken in order for the unit under paragraph (a)(2) of this section to comply with the maximum annual average SOemissions rate under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.

(iii) A description of any contract for implementing the actions described in paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section that was executed before the date on which the agreement under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section is executed. The designated representative shall state the execution date of each such contract and state whether the contract is expressly contingent on the agreement under paragraph (c)(5)(iii) of this section.

(iv) A showing that the actions described under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section will not be implemented during Phase I unless the unit is approved as a substitution unit.

(7) The special provisions in paragraph (e) of this section.
