
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.41 Phase I substitution plans.
####### Special provisions,Emissions Limitations.

(e)-(1)(i) Each substitution unit governed by an approved substitution plan shall become a Phase I unit from January 1 of the year for which the plan takes effect until January 1 of the year for which the plan is no longer in effect or is terminated. The designated representative of a substitution unit shall surrender allowances, and the Administrator will deduct allowances, in accordance with paragraph (d)(3) of this section.

(ii) Each unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section, and each substitution unit, governed by an approved substitution plan shall be subject to the Acid Rain emissions limitations for nitrogen oxides in accordance with part 76 of this chapter.

(iii) Where an approved substitution plan includes a demonstration under paragraphs (c)(5)(iii) and (c)(6) of this section.

(A) The owners and operators of the substitution unit covered by the demonstration shall implement the actions described under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section, as adjusted by the Administrator in approving the plan or in revising the permit. The designated representative may submit proposed permit revisions changing the description of the actions to be taken in order for the substitution unit to achieve the maximum annual average SOemissions rate under the approved plan and shall include in any such submission a showing that the actions in the changed description will not be implemented during Phase I unless the unit remains a substitution unit. The permit revision will be treated as an administrative amendment, except where the Administrator determines that the change in the description alters the fundamental nature of the actions to be taken and that public notice and comment will contribute to the decision-making process, in which case the permit revision will be treated as a permit modification or, at the option of the designated representative, a fast-track modification.

(B) The designated representative of the unit under paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall surrender allowances, and theAdministrator will deduct allowances, in accordance with paragraph (c)(5)(iii)(C) of this section. The surrender and deduction of allowances as required under the prior sentence shall be the only remedy under the Act for a failure to meet the maximum annual average SOemissions rate, provided that, if such deduction of allowance results in excess emissions, the remedies for excess emissions shall be fully applicable.
