
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.42 Phase I extension plans.
####### i.e.

(ii) The projected annual utilization (in mmBtu) for 1996 multiplied by the projected uncontrolled emissions rate (, the emissions rate in the absence of title IV of the Act) for 1996 (in lbs/mmBtu), divided by 2000 lbs/ton.

(5) For each control and transfer unit, the number of Phase I extension reserve allowances requested for 1995 and for 1996, not to exceed the difference between:

(i) The lesser of the value for the unit under paragraph (c)(3) of this section and the value for the unit for that year under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, and

(ii) Each unit's baseline multiplied by 2.5 lb/mmBtu, divided by 2000 lbs/ton.

(6) Documentation that the annual emissions reduction obligations transferred from all transfer units to all control units do not exceed those authorized under this section, as follows:

(i) For each control unit, the difference, calculated separately for 1995 and 1996, between:

(A) The control unit's allowance allocation in table 1 of ยง 73.10(2) of this chapter, the allocation under ยง 72.41 if the control unit is a substitution unit, or the allocation under ยง 72.43 if the control unit is a compensating unit; and

(B) The projected emissions resulting from 90% control after installing the qualifying Phase I technology, i.e., 10% of the projected uncontrolled emissions for the control unit for the year in accordance with paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(ii) The sum, by year, of the results under paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this section for all control units.

(iii) The sum, by year, of Phase I extension reserve allowances requested for all transfer units.

(iv) A showing that, for each year, the sum under paragraph (c)(6)(ii) of this section is greater than or equal to the sum under paragraph (c)(6)(iii) of this section.

(7) For each control and transfer unit, the projected controlled emissions for 1997, for 1998, and for 1999 calculated as follows:

Projected annual utilization (in mmBtu) multiplied by the projected controlled emission rate (in lbs/mmBtu), divided by 2000 lbs/ton.

(8) For each control unit, the number of Phase I extension reserve allowances requested for 1997, for 1998, and for 1999, calculated as follows:

The unit's baseline multiplied by 1.2 lbs/mmBtu and divided by 2000 lbs/ton, minus the projected controlled emissions (in tons/yr) under paragraph (c)(7) of this section for the given year.

(9) The total of Phase I extension reserve allowances requested for all units in the plan for 1995 through 1999.

(10) With regard to each executed contract for the design engineering and construction of qualifying Phase I technology at each control unit governed by the early ranking application, either a copy of the contract or a certification that the contract is on site at the source and will be submitted to the Administrator upon written request. The contract or contracts may be contingent on the Administrator approving the Phase I extension plan.

(11) For each contract for which a certification is submitted under paragraph (c)(10) of this section, a binding letter agreement, signed and dated by each party and specifying:

(i) The type of qualifying Phase I technology to which the contract applies;

(ii) The parties to the contract;

(iii) The date each party executed the contracts;

(iv) The unit to which the contract applies;

(v) A brief list identifying each provision of the contract;

(vi) Any dates to which the parties agree, including construction completion date; and

(vii) The total dollar amount of the contract.
