
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.43 Phase I reduced utilization plans.
####### Contents of reduced utilization plan.

(c)A complete reduced utilization plan shall include the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(1) Identification of each Phase I unit for which the owners and operators plan reduced utilization.

(2) Except where the designated representative requests conditional approval of the plan, the first calendar year and, if known, the last calendar year in which the reduced utilization plan is to be in effect. Unless the designated representative specifies an earlier calendar year, the last calendar year shall be deemed to be 1999.

(3) A statement whether the plan designates a compensating unit or relies on sulfur-free generation, any energy conservation measure, or any improved unit efficiency measure to account for any amount of reduced utilization.

(4) If the plan designates a compensating unit, or relies on sulfur-free generation, to account for any amount of reduced utilization:

(i) Identification of each compensating unit or sulfur-free generator.

(ii) For each compensating unit. (A) Each of the following: The unit's 1985 actual SOemissions rate; the unit's 1985 allowable emissions rate; the unit's 1989 actual SOemissions rate; the unit's 1990 actual SOemissions rate; and, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covering the unit for 1995-1999. For purposes of determining the most stringent emissions limitation, applicable emissions limitations shall be converted to lbs/mmBtu in accordance with appendix B of this part. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995-1999, the most stringent emissions limitation shall be stated separately for each year.

(B) The unit's baseline divided by 2,000 lbs/ton and multiplied by the lesser of the unit's 1985 actual SOemissions rate or 1985 allowable SOemissions rate.

(C) The unit's baseline divided by 2000 lbs/ton and multiplied by the lesser of: The greater of the unit's 1989 or 1990 actual SOemissions rate; or, as of November 15, 1990, the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covering the unit for 1995-1999. Where the most stringent emissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995-1999, the calculation in the prior sentence shall be made separately for each year.

(D) The difference between the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section and the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section. If the difference calculated in the prior sentence for any year exceeds the lesser of 10 percent of the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section or 200 tons, the unit shall not be designated as a compensating unit for the year. Where the most stringent unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation is not the same for every year in 1995-1999, the difference shall be calculated separately for each year.

(E) The allowance allocation calculated as the amount under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. If the compensating unit is a new unit, it shall be deemed to have a baseline of zero and shall be allocated no allowances.

(F) Where, as of November 15, 1990, a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable SOemissions limitation covers the unit for any year in 1995-1999, the designated representative shall state each such limitation and propose a method for applying unit-specific and non-unit-specific emissions limitations under paragraph (d) of this section.

(iii) For each sulfur-free generator, identification of any other Phase I units that designate the same sulfur-free generator in another plan submitted under paragraph (b) (1) or (4) of this section.

(iv) For each compensating unit or sulfur-free generator not in the dispatch system of the unit reducing utilization under the plan, the system directives or power purchase agreements or other contractual agreements governing the acquisition, by the dispatch system, of the electrical energy that is generated by the compensating unit or sulfur-free generator and on which the plan relies to accomplish reduced utilization. Such contractual agreements shall identify the specific compensating unit or sulfur-free generator from which the dispatch system acquires such electrical energy.

(5) The special provisions in paragraph (f) of this section.
