
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.44 Phase II repowering extensions.
####### Applicability.

(a)(1) This section shall apply to the designated representative of:

(i) Any existing affected unit that is a coal-fired unit and has a 1985 actual SOemissions rate equal to or greater than 1.2 lbs/mmBtu.

(ii) Any new unit that will be a replacement unit, as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for a unit meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section.

(iii) Any oil and/or gas-fired unit that has been awarded clean coal technology demonstration funding as of January 1, 1991 by the Secretary of Energy.

(2) A repowering extension does not exempt the owner or operator for any unit governed by the repowering plan from the requirement to comply with such unit's Acid Rain emissions limitations for sulfur dioxide.

(b) The designated representative of any unit meeting the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section may include in the unit's Phase II Acid Rain permit application a repowering extension plan that includes a demonstration that:

(1) The unit will be repowered with a qualifying repowering technology in order to comply with the Phase II emissions limitations for sulfur dioxide; or

(2) The unit will be replaced by a new utility unit that has the same designated representative and that is located at a different site using a qualified repowering technology and the existing unit will be permanently retired from service on or before the date on which the new utility unit commences commercial operation.

(c) In order to apply for a repowering extension, the designated representative of a unit under paragraph (a) of this section shall:

(1) Submit to the permitting authority, by January 1, 1996, a complete repowering extension plan;

(2) Submit to the Administrator, before June 1, 1997, a complete petition for approval of repowering technology; and

(3) If the repowering extension plan is submitted for conditional approval, submit by December 31, 1997, a notification to activate the plan in accordance with ยง 72.40(c).
