
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.43 Phase I reduced utilization plans.
####### Administrator's action.

(d)(1) If the Administrator approves the reduced utilization plan, he or she will allocate allowances, as provided in the approved plan, to the Allowance Tracking System account for any designated compensating unit upon issuance of an Acid Rain permit containing the plan, except that, if the plan is conditionally approved, the allowances will be allocated upon revision of the permit to activate the plan.

(2) Where, as of November 15, 1990, a non-unit-specific federally enforceable or State enforceable emissions limitation covers the unit for any year during 1995-1999, the Administrator will specify on a case-by-case basis a method for using unit-specific and non-unit specific emissions limitations in approving or disapproving the compensating unit. The specified method will not treat a non-unit-specific emissions limitation as a unit-specific emissions limitation and will not result in compensating units retaining allowances allocated under paragraph (d)(1) of this section for emissions reductions necessary to meet a non-unit-specific emissions limitation. Such method may require an end-of-year review and the disapproval and de-designation, and adjustment of the allowances allocated to, the compensating unit and may require the designated representative of the compensating unit to surrender allowances by the allowance transfer deadline of the year that is subject to the review. Any surrendered allowances shall have the same or an earlier compliance use date as the allowances originally allocated for the year, and the designated representative may identify the serial numbers of the allowances to be deducted. In the absence of such identification, such allowances will be deducted on a first-in, first-out basis under ยง 73.35(c)(2) of this chapter.
