
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### § 72.44 Phase II repowering extensions.
####### Failed repowering projects.

(g)(1)(i) If, at any time before the end of the repowering extension under paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, the designated representative of a unit governed by an approved repowering extension plan notifies the Administrator in writing that the owners and operators have decided to terminate efforts to properly design, construct, and test the repowering technology specified in the plan before completion of construction or start-up testing and demonstrates, in a requested permit modification, to the Administrator's satisfaction that such efforts were in good faith, the unit shall not be deemed in violation of the Act because of such a termination. If the Administrator is not the permitting authority, a copy of the requested permit modification shall be sumitted to the Administrator. Where the preceding requirements of this paragraph are met, the permitting authority shall revise the operating permit in accordance with this paragraph and paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section and § 72.81 (permit modification).

(ii) Regardless of whether notification under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section is given, the repowering extension will end beginning on the earlier of the date of such notification or the date by which the designated representative was required to give such notification under § 72.94(d). The Administrator will deduct allowances (including a pro rata deduction for any fraction of a year) from the Allowance Tracking System account of the existing unit to the extent necessary to ensure that, beginning the day after the extension ends, allowances are allocated in accordance with § 73.21(c)(1) of this chapter.

(2) If the designated representative of a unit governed by an approved repowering extension plan demonstrates to the satisfaction of the Administrator, in a requested permit modification, that the repowering technology specified in the plan was properly constructed and tested on such unit but was unable to achieve the emissions reduction limitations specified in the plan and that it is economically or technologically infeasible to modify the technology to achieve such limits, the unit shall not be deemed in violation of the Act because of such failure to achieve the emissions reduction limitations. If the Administrator is not the permitting authority, a copy of the requested permit modification shall be sumitted to the Administrator. In order to be properly constructed and tested, the repowering technology shall be constructed at least to the extent necessary for direct testing of the multiple combustion emissions (including sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides) from such unit while operating the technology at nameplate capacity. Where the preceding requirements of this paragraph are met:

(i) The permitting authority shall revise the Acid Rain portion of the operating permit in accordance with paragraphs (g)(2) (ii) and (iii) and § 72.81 (permit modification).

(ii) The existing unit may be retrofitted or repowered with another clean coal or other available control technology.

(iii) The repowering extension will continue in effect until the earlier of the date the existing unit commences commercial operation with such control technology or December 31, 2003. The Administrator will allocate or deduct allowances as necessary to ensure that allowances are allocated in accordance with paragraph (f)(3) of this section applying the repowering extension under this paragraph.
