
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart D - Acid Rain Compliance Plan and Compliance Options
###### ยง 72.44 Phase II repowering extensions.
####### Contents of repowering extension plan.

(e)A complete repowering extension plan shall include the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(1) Identification of the existing unit governed by the plan.

(2) The unit's federally-approved State Implementation Plan sulfur dioxide emissions limitation.

(3) The unit's 1995 actual SOemissions rate.

(4) A schedule for construction, installation, and commencement of operation of the repowering technology approved or submitted for approval under paragraph (d) of this section, with dates for the following milestones:

(i) Completion of design engineering;

(ii) For a plan under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, removal of the existing unit from operation to install the qualified repowering technology;

(iii) Commencement of construction;

(iv) Completion of construction;

(v) Start-up testing;

(vi) For a plan under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, shutdown of the existing unit; and

(vii) Commencement of commercial operation of the repowering technology.

(5) For a plan under paragraph (b)(2) of this section:

(i) Identification of the new unit. A new unit shall not be included in more than one repowering extension plan.

(ii) Certification that the new unit will replace the existing unit.

(iii) Certification that the new unit has the same designated representative as the existing unit.

(iv) Certification that the existing unit will be permanently retired from service on or before the date the new unit commences commercial operation.

(6) The special provisions of paragraph (h) of this section.
