
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart F - Federal Acid Rain Permit Issuance Procedures
###### ยง 72.65 Public notice of opportunities for public comment.
####### Contents.

(c)All public notices issued under this section will contain the following information:

(1) Identification of the EPA office processing the issuance or denial of the draft permit for which the notice is being given.

(2) Identification of the designated representative for the affected source.

(3) Identification of each unit covered by the Acid Rain permit application and the draft permit.

(4) Any compliance options proposed for approval in the draft permit or for disapproval and the total allowances (including any under the compliance options) allocated to each unit if the Acid Rain permit application is approved.

(5) The address and office hours of a public location where the administrative record is available for public inspection and a statement that all information submitted by the designated representative and not protected as confidential under section 114(c) of the Act is available for public inspection as part of the administrative record.

(6) For public notice under paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section, a brief description of the public comment procedures, including:

(i) A 30-day period for public comment beginning the date of publication of the notice or, in the case of an extension or reopening of the public comment period, such period as the Administrator deems appropriate;

(ii) The address where public comments should be sent;

(iii) Required formats and contents for public comment;

(iv) An opportunity to request a public hearing to occur not earlier than 15 days after public notice is given and the location, date, time, and procedures of any scheduled public hearing; and

(v) Any other means by which the public may participate.
