
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart G - Acid Rain Phase II Implementation
###### § 72.71 Acceptance of State Acid Rain programs - general.

(a) Each State shall submit, to the Administrator for review and acceptance, a State Acid Rain program meeting the requirements of §§ 72.72 and 72.73.

(b) The Administrator will review each State Acid Rain program or portion of a State Acid Rain program and accept, by notice in theall or a portion of such program to the extent that it meets the requirements of §§ 72.72 and 72.73. At his or her discretion, the Administrator may accept, with conditions and by notice in theall or a portion of such program despite the failure to meet requirements of §§ 72.72 and 72.73. On the later of the date of publication of such notice in theor the date on which the State operating permit program is approved under part 70 of this chapter, the State Acid Rain program accepted by the Administrator will become a portion of the approved State operating permit program. Before accepting or rejecting all or a portion of a State Acid Rain Program, the Administrator will provide notice and opportunity for public comment on such acceptance or rejection.

(c)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, the Administrator will issue all Acid Rain permits for Phase I. The Administrator reserves the right to delegate the remaining administration and enforcement of Acid Rain permits for Phase I to approved State operating permit programs.

(2) The State permitting authority will issue an opt-in permit for a combustion or process source subject to its jurisdiction if, on the date on which the combustion or process source submits an opt-in permit application, the State permitting authority has opt-in regulations accepted under paragraph (b) of this section and an approved operating permits program under part 70 of this chapter.
