
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart G - Acid Rain Phase II Implementation
###### ยง 72.72 Criteria for State operating permit program.
####### Acid Rain Appeal Procedures.

(5)(i) Appeals of the Acid Rain portion of an operating permit issued by the State permitting authority that do not challenge or involve decisions or actions of the Administrator under this part or part 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, or 78 of this chapter shall be conducted according to procedures established by the State in accordance with part 70 of this chapter. Appeals of the Acid Rain portion of such a permit that challenge or involve such decisions or actions of the Administrator shall follow the procedures under part 78 of this chapter and section 307 of the Act. Such decisions or actions include, but are not limited to, allowance allocations, determinations concerning alternative monitoring systems, and determinations of whether a technology is a qualifying repowering technology.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) The State permitting authority shall serve written notice on the Administrator of any State administrative or judicial appeal concerning as Acid Rain provision of any operating permit or denial of an Acid Rain portion of any operating permit within 30 days of the filing of the appeal.

(iv) Any State administrative permit appeals procedures shall ensure that the Administrator may intervene as a matter of right in any permit appeal involving an Acid Rain permit provision or denial of an Acid Rain permit.

(v) The State permitting authority shall serve written notice on the Administrator of any determination or order in a State administrative or judicial proceeding that interprets, modifies, voids, or otherwise relates to any portion of an Acid Rain permit.

(vi) A failure of the State permitting authority to issue an Acid Rain permit in accordance with ยง 72.73(b)(1) or, with regard to combustion or process sources, ยง 74.14(b)(6) of this chapter shall be ground for filing an appeal.
