
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart H - Permit Revisions
###### ยง 72.82 Fast-track modifications.

The following procedures shall apply to all fast-track modifications.

(a) If the Administrator is the permitting authority, the designated representative shall serve a copy of the fast-track modification on the Administrator and any person entitled to a written notice under ยง 72.65(b)(1)(ii) and (iii). If a State is the permitting authority, the designated representative shall serve such a copy on the Administrator, the permitting authority, and any person entitled to receive a written notice of a draft permit under the approved State operating permit program. Within 5 business days of serving such copies, the designated representative shall also give public notice by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the area where the sources are located or in a State publication designed to give general public notice.

(b) The public shall have a period of 30 days, commencing on the date of publication of the notice, to comment on the fast-track modification. Comments shall be submitted in writing to the permitting authority and to the designated representative.

(c) The designated representative shall submit the fast-track modification to the permitting authority on or before commencement of the public comment period.

(d) Within 30 days of the close of the public comment period if the Administrator is the permitting authority or within 90 days of the close of the public comment period if a State is the permitting authority, the permitting authority shall consider the fast-track modification and the comments received and approve, in whole or in part or with changes or conditions as appropriate, or disapprove the modification. A fast-track modification shall be subject to the same provisions for review by the Administrator and affected States as are applicable to a permit modification under ยง 72.81.
