
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart I - Compliance Certification
###### § 72.91 Phase I unit adjusted utilization.
####### provided

(C) The allowances to be deducted under paragraph (b)(5) of this section shall equal the amount under paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) of this section,that if the amount calculated under this paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(C) is equal to or less than zero, then the amount of allowances to be deducted is zero.

(6) The Administrator will determine the amount of allowances that would have been included in the unit's compliance subaccount and the amount of excess emissions of sulfur dioxide that would have resulted if the deductions made under § 73.35(b) of this chapter had been based on the verified, rather than the estimated, reduction in the unit's heat input from energy conservation and improved unit efficiency measures.

(7) The Administrator will determine whether the amount of excess emissions of sulfur dioxide under paragraph (b)(6) of this section differs from the amount of excess emissions determined under § 73.35(b) of this chapter based on the annual compliance certification report. If the amounts differ, the Administrator will determine: The number of allowances that should be deducted to offset any increase in excess emissions or returned to account for any decrease in excess emissions; and the amount of excess emissions penalty (excluding interest) that should be paid or returned to account for the change in excess emissions. The Administrator will deduct immediately from the unit's compliance subaccount the amount of allowances that he or she determines is necessary to offset any increase in excess emissions or will return immediately to the unit's compliance subaccount the amount of allowances that he or she determines is necessary to account for any decrease in excess emissions. The designated representative may identify the serial numbers of the allowances to be deducted or returned. In the absence of such identification, the deduction will be on a first-in, first-out basis under § 73.35(b)(2) of this chapter and the return will be at the Administrator's discretion.

(8) If the designated representative of a unit fails to submit on a timely basis a confirmation report (in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section) with regard to the estimate of expected kilowatt hour savings or improvement in heat rate from any energy conservation or improved unit efficiency measure under the reduced utilization plan, then the Administrator will reject such estimate and correct it to equal zero in the unit's annual compliance certification report that includes that estimate. The Administrator will deduct immediately, on a first-in, first-out basis under § 73.35(c)(2) of this chapter, the amount of allowances that he or she determines is necessary to offset any increase in excess emissions of sulfur dioxide that results from the correction and require the owners and operators to pay an excess emission penalty in accordance with part 77 of this chapter.
