
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Subpart I - Compliance Certification
###### ยง 72.91 Phase I unit adjusted utilization.
####### Annual compliance certification report.

(a)The designated representative for each Phase I unit shall include in the annual compliance certification report the unit's adjusted utilization for the calendar year in Phase I covered by the report, calculated as follows:

(1) "Baseline" is as defined in ยง 72.2 of this part.

(2) "Actual utilization" is the actual annual heat input (in mmBtu) of the unit for the calendar year determined in accordance with part 75 of this chapter.

(3) "Plan reductions" are the reductions in actual utilization, for the calendar year, below the baseline that are accounted for by an approved reduced utilization plan. The designated representative for the unit shall calculate the "plan reductions" (in mmBtu) using the following formula and converting all values in Kwh to mmBtu using the actual annual average heat rate (Btu/Kwh) of the unit (determined in accordance with part 75 of this chapter) before the employment of any improved unit efficiency measures under an approved plan:

(i) "Reduction from energy conservation" is a good faith estimate of the expected kilowatt hour savings during the calendar year from all conservation measures under the reduced utilization plan and the corresponding reduction in heat input (in mmBtu) resulting from those savings. The verified amount of such reduction shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) "Reduction from improved unit efficiency" is a good faith estimate of the expected improvement in heat rate during the calendar year and the corresponding reduction in heat input (in mmBtu) at the Phase I unit as a result of all improved unit efficiency measures under the reduced utilization plan. The verified amount of such reduction shall be submitted in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) "Shifts to designated sulfur-free generators" is the reduction in utilization (in mmBtu), for the calendar year, that is accounted for by all sulfur-free generators designated under the reduced utilization plan in effect for the calendar year. This term equals the sum, for all such generators, of the "shift to sulfur-free generator." "Shift to sulfur-free generator" shall equal the amount, to the extent documented under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, calculated for each generator using the following formula:

(A) "Actual sulfur-free utilization" is the actual annual generation (in Kwh) of the designated sulfur-free generator for the calendar year converted to mmBtus.

(B) "Average 1985-87 sulfur-free utilization" is the sum of annual generation (in Kwh) for 1985, 1986, and 1987 for the designated sulfur-free generator, divided by three and converted to mmBtus.

(C) "Percentage change in dispatch system sales" is calculated as follows:

(D) If the result of the formula for "shift to sulfur-free generator" is less than or equal to zero, then "shift to sulfur-free generator" is zero.

(iv) "Shifts to designated compensating units" is the reduction in utilization (in mmBtu) for the calendar year that is accounted for by increased generation at compensating units designated under the reduced utilization plan in effect for the calendar year. This term equals the heat rate, under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, of the unit reducing utilization multiplied by the sum, for all such compensating units, of the "shift to compensating unit" for each compensating unit. "Shift to compensating unit" shall equal the amount of compensating generation (in Kwh), to the extent documented under paragraph (a)(6) of this section, that the designated representatives of the unit reducing utilization and the compensating unit have certified (in their respective annual compliance certification reports) as the amount that will be converted to mmBtus and used, in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section, in calculating the adjusted utilization for the compensating unit.

(4) "Compensating generation provided to other units" is the total amount of utilization (in mmBtu) necessary to provide the generation (if any) that was shifted to the unit as a designated compensating unit under any other reduced utilization plans that were in effect for the unit and for the calendar year. This term equals the heat rate, under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, of such unit multiplied by the sum of each "shift to compensating unit" that is attributed to the unit in the annual compliance certification reports submitted by the Phase I units under such other plans and that is certified under paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section.

(5) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(3) (i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, where two or more Phase I units include in "plan reductions", in their annual compliance certification reports for the calendar year, expected kilowatt hour savings or reduction in heat rate from the same specific conservation or improved unit efficiency measures or increased utilization of the same sulfur-free generator:

(i) The designated representatives of all such units shall submit with their annual reports a certification signed by all such designated representatives. The certification shall apportion the total kilowatt hour savings, reduction in heat rate, or increased utilization among such units.

(ii) Each designated representative shall include in the annual report only the respective unit's share of the total kilowatt hour savings, reduction in heat rate, or increased utilization, in accordance with the certification under paragraph (a)(5)(i) of this section.

(6)(i) Where a unit includes in "plan reductions" under paragraph (a)(3) of this section the increase in utilization of any sulfur-free generator, the designated representative of the unit shall submit, with the annual compliance certification report, documentation demonstrating that an amount of electrical energy at least equal to the "shift to sulfur-free generator" attributed to the sulfur-free generator in the annual report was actually acquired by the unit's dispatch system from the sulfur-free generator.

(ii) Where a unit includes in "plan reductions" under paragraph (a)(3) of this section utilization of any compensating unit, the designated representative of the unit shall submit with the annual compliance certification report, documentation demonstrating that an amount of electrical energy at least equal to the "shift to compensating unit" attributed to the compensating unit in the annual report was actually acquired by the unit's dispatch system from the compensating unit.

(7) Notwithstanding paragraphs (a)(3) (i), (ii), (iii), and (iv), (a)(4), and (a)(5) of this section, "plan reductions" minus "compensating generation provided to other units" shall not exceed "baseline" minus "actual utilization."
