
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 72 - PERMITS REGULATION
##### Appendix A to Part 72 - Methodology for Annualization of Emissions Limits

For the purposes of the Acid Rain Program, 1985 emissions limits must be expressed in pounds of SOper million British Thermal Unit of heat input (lb/mmBtu) and expressed on an annual basis.

Annualization factors are used to develop annual equivalent SOlimits as required by section 402(18) of the CAA. Many emission limits are enforced on a shorter term basis (or averaging period) than annually. Because of the variability of sulfur in coal and, in some cases, scrubber performance, meeting a particular limit with an averaging period of less than a year and at a specified statutory emissions level would require a lower annual average SOemission rate (or annual equivalent SOlimit) than would the shorter term statutory limit. EPA has selected a compliance level of one exceedance per 10 years. For example, an SOemission limit of 1.2 lbs/MMBtu, enforced for a scrubbed unit over a 7-day averaging period, would result in an annualized SOemission limit of 1.16 lbs/MMBtu. In general, the shorter the averaging period, the lower the annual equivalent would be. Thus, the annualization of limits is established by multiplying each federally enforceable limit by an annualization factor that is determined by the averaging period and whether or not it's a scrubbed unit.
