
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 73 - SULFUR DIOXIDE ALLOWANCE SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Allowance Allocations
###### ยง 73.20 Phase II early reduction credits.
####### Allowance Loan.

(3)(i) The number of allowances calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall be allocated to the unit's year 2000 subaccount.

(ii) The number of allowances calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section shall be deducted, contemporaneously with the allocation under paragraph (f)(3)(i) of this section, from the unit's year 2015 subaccount.

(iii) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, if the number of allowances to be deducted exceeds the amount of allowances allocated to the unit for the year 2015, allowances in the year 2015 subaccount equal to the amount of allowances allocated to the unit for the year 2015 shall be deducted. In addition to the deduction from the year 2015 subaccount, a sufficient amount of allowances in the year 2016 subaccount (up to the amount of allowances allocated to the unit for the year 2016) shall be deducted contemporaneously, such that the sum of the allowances deducted from the subaccounts equals the number of allowances required to be deducted under paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iv) Notwithstanding paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section, the procedure in paragraph (f)(3)(iii) shall be applied as follows to each year after 2015 (year-by-year in numerical order) for which the number of allowances to be deducted from that year's subaccount exceeds the number allocated to the unit for that year: allowances equal to the number allocated for that year shall be deducted from that year's subaccount and the remainder (up to the amount allocated) necessary to equal the number of allowances required to be deducted under paragraph (f)(3)(ii) of this section shall be deducted from the next year's subaccount.

(v) The owners and operators of the unit shall ensure that sufficient allowances are available to make the full deductions required under paragraphs (f)(3)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section. The designated representative may specify the serial number of each allowance to be deducted.
