
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 73 - SULFUR DIOXIDE ALLOWANCE SYSTEM
##### Subpart E - Auctions, Direct Sales, and Independent Power Producers Written Guarantee
###### ยง 73.70 Auctions.
####### Conduct of the auctions.

(d)(1) The Administrator will rank all bids in descending order of bid price starting with the highest. Allowances will be sold from the Auction Subaccount in this order at the amounts specified in the bids until there are no allowances in the subaccount. If all allowances are sold from the Auction Subaccount, including unsold allowances transferred from the preceding year's direct sale, and if bids still remain, the Administrator will sell allowances offered by the authorized account representatives, beginning with those offered at the lowest minimum price. Allowances offered at the lowest minimum price will be matched with the highest bid remaining after the Auction Subaccount is exhausted. Sales of offered allowances, including, but not limited to, allowances offered by more than one offeror at the same minimum bid price, will continue in ascending order of minimum price, starting with the lowest, and descending order of remaining bids, starting with the highest, until:

(i) All allowances are sold,

(ii) No bids remain, or

(iii) Prices of remaining bids do not meet minimum prices required in remaining offers.

(2) In the event that there is more than one bid submitting the same price and the total number of allowances requested in all such bids exceeds the number of allowances remaining, the Administrator will award the remaining allowances by lottery to such bidders.

(3) In the event that there are more offers of sale at the minimum price than there are bids meeting that price, allowances from all such offers will be sold to cover the bids, according to each such offeror's pro rata share of all allowances so offered.

(4) In the event that fewer allowances remain than are requested in a bid, the Administrator will sell such remaining allowances to the bidder provided that, pursuant to ยง 73.71(b)(4), the bid states the bidder's willingness to purchase fewer allowances than requested in the bid.

(5) In the event that fewer than all allowances included in an offer for sale would be sold to remaining bids based on price, the Administrator will sell such allowances to the bidder(s), provided that, pursuant to ยง 73.70(c)(4), the offer states the offeror's willingness to sell fewer allowances than were offered for sale.
