
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 73 - SULFUR DIOXIDE ALLOWANCE SYSTEM
##### Subpart F - Energy Conservation and Renewable Energy Reserve
###### ยง 73.82 Application for allowances from reserve program.
####### Verification of energy savings methodology.

(c)For the purposes of paragraph (a)(11) of this section:

(1) Applicants subject to the ratemaking jurisdiction of a State utility regulatory authority shall use the energy conservation verification methodology approved by such authority in support of energy conservation applications under this subpart and part 72 of this chapter, provided that

(i) The authority in question uses this methodology to determine the applicant's entitlement to performance-based rate adjustments, which permit a utility's rates to be adjusted for additional kilowatt hours saved due to the utility's energy conservation programs;

(ii) Such performance based rate adjustments are subject to modification either prospectively or retrospectively to reflect periodic evaluations of energy savings secured by the applicant; and

(iii) The applicant has provided the Administrator with a description of the State utility regulatory authority's verification methodology and documentation that the requirements of this paragraph (e) have been met.

(2) All other applicants, including applicants whose rates are not subject to the ratemaking jurisdiction of a State utility regulatory authority shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator through submission of documentation that savings have been achieved and may use the EPA Conservation Verification Protocol.

(3) All records of verification of energy savings shall be kept on file by the applicant for a period of 3 years. The Administrator may extend this period for cause at any time prior to the end of 3 years by notifying the applicant in writing.

(4) The Administrator reserves the right to conduct independent reviews, analyses, or audits to ascertain that the verification is valid and correct. If the Administrator determines that the verification is not valid or correct, the Administrator may revise the allocation of allowances to an applicant or require the surrender of allowances from the applicant's Allowance Tracking System account.
