
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 73 - SULFUR DIOXIDE ALLOWANCE SYSTEM
##### Subpart G - Small Diesel Refineries
###### ยง 73.90 Allowance allocations for small diesel refineries.
####### Request for allowances.

(b)(1) In addition to the application for certification, prior to, or accompanying, the request for allowances, the certifying official for the refinery shall submit an Allowance Tracking System New Account/New Authorized Account Representative Form.

(2) The request for allowances shall be submitted to the address in ยง 72.13 and shall include the following information:

(i) Certification that all motor fuel produced by the refinery for which allowances are claimed meets the requirements of subsection 211(i) of the Clean Air Act;

(ii) For calendar year 1993 desulfurized diesel fuel, photocopies of Form 810 for October, November and December 1993;

(iii) For calendar years 1994 through 1999, inclusive, photocopies of Form 810 for each month in the respective calendar year.

(3) For joint ventures, each eligible refinery shall submit a separate application under paragraph (b)(2) of this section. Each application must include the diesel fuel throughput applicable to the joint agreement and the requested distribution of allowances that would be allocated to the joint agreement. If the applications for refineries involved in the joint agreement are inconsistent as to the throughput of diesel fuel applicable to the joint agreement or as to the distribution of the allowances, all involved applications will be considered void for purposes of the joint agreement.

(4) The certifying official shall submit all requests for allowances by April 1 of the calendar year following the year in which the diesel fuel was desulfurized to the Director, Acid Rain Division, under the procedures set forth in ยง 73.13 of this part.
