
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 74 - SULFUR DIOXIDE OPT-INS
##### Subpart B - Permitting Procedures
###### ยง 74.19 Revision and renewal of opt-in permit.

(a) The designated representative of an opt-in source may submit revisions to its opt-in permit in accordance with subpart H of part 72 of this chapter.

(b) The designated representative of an opt-in source may renew its opt-in permit by meeting the following requirements:

(1)(i) In order to renew an opt-in permit if the Administrator is the permitting authority for the renewed permit, the designated representative of an opt-in source must submit to the Administrator an opt-in permit application at least 6 months prior to the expiration of an existing opt-in permit.

(ii) In order to renew an opt-in permit if the State is the permitting authority for the renewed permit, the designated representative of an opt-in source must submit to the permitting authority an opt-in permit application at least 18 months prior to the expiration of an existing opt-in permit or such shorter time as may be approved for operating permits under part 70 of this chapter.

(2) Each complete opt-in permit application submitted to renew an opt-in permit shall contain the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(i) Elements contained in the opt-in source's initial opt-in permit application as specified under ยง 74.16(a)(1), (2), (10), (11), (12), and (13).

(ii) An updated monitoring plan, if applicable under ยง 75.53(b) of this chapter.

(c)(1) Upon receipt of an opt-in permit application submitted to renew an opt-in permit, the permitting authority shall issue or deny an opt-in permit in accordance with the requirements under subpart B of this part, except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) When issuing a renewed opt-in permit, the permitting authority shall not alter an opt-in source's allowance allocation as established, under subpart B and subpart C of this part for combustion sources and under subpart B and subpart D of this part for process sources, in the opt-in permit that is being renewed.
