
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 75.1 Purpose and scope.
####### Scope.

(b)(1) The regulations established under this part include general requirements for the installation, certification, operation, and maintenance of continuous emission or opacity monitoring systems and specific requirements for the monitoring of SOemissions, volumetric flow, NOemissions, opacity, COemissions and SOemissions removal by qualifying Phase I technologies. Specifications for the installation and performance of continuous emission monitoring systems, certification tests and procedures, and quality assurance tests and procedures are included in appendices A and B to this part. Criteria for alternative monitoring systems and provisions to account for missing data from certified continuous emission monitoring systems or approved alternative monitoring systems are also included in the regulation.

(2) Statistical estimation procedures for missing data are included in appendix C to this part. Optional protocols for estimating SOmass emissions from gas-fired or oil-fired units and NOemissions from gas-fired peaking or oil-fired peaking units are included in appendices D and E, respectively, to this part. Requirements for recording and recordkeeping of monitoring data and for quarterly electronic reporting also are specified. Procedures for conversion of monitoring data into units of the standard are included in appendix F to this part. Procedures for the monitoring and calculation of COemissions are included in appendix G of this part.
