
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart A - General
###### § 75.6 Incorporation by reference.
####### http://www.astm.org/DIGITAL_LIBRARY/index.shtml.

(a) The following materials are available for purchase from the following address: American Society for Testing and Material (ASTM) International, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box C700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania, 19428-2959, phone: 610-832-9585,

(1) ASTM D129-00, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products (General Bomb Method), for appendices A and D of this part.

(2) D240-00, Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Liquid Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter, for appendices A, D and F of this part.

(3) ASTM D287-92 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Test Method for API Gravity of Crude Petroleum and Petroleum Products (Hydrometer Method), for appendix D of this part.

(4) ASTM D388-99, Standard Classification of Coals by Rank, incorporation by reference for appendix F of this part.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) ASTM D1072-06, Standard Test Method for Total Sulfur in Fuel Gases by Combustion and Barium Chloride Titration, for appendix D of this part.

(7) ASTM D1217-993 (Reapproved 1998), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density (Specific Gravity) of Liquids by Bingham Pycnometer, for appendix D of this part.

(8) ASTM D1250-07 , Standard Guide for Use of the Petroleum Measurement Tables, for appendix D of this part.

(9) ASTM D1298-99, Standard Test Method for Density, Relative Density (Specific Gravity) or API Gravity of Crude Petroleum and Liquid Petroleum Products by Hydrometer Method, for appendix D of this part.

(10) ASTM D1480-93 (Reapproved 1997), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density (Specific Gravity) of Viscous Materials by Bingham Pycnometer, for appendix D of this part.

(11) ASTM D1481-93 (Reapproved 1997), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density (Specific Gravity) of Viscous Materials by Lipkin Bicapillary Pycnometer, for appendix D of this part.

(12) ASTM D1552-01, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products (High-Temperature Method), for appendices A and D of the part.

(13) ASTM D1826-94 (Reapproved 1998), Standard Test Method for Calorific (Heating) Value of Gases in Natural Gas Range by Continuous Recording Calorimeter, for appendices D and F to this part.

(14) ASTM D1945-96 (Reapproved 2001), Standard Test Method for Analysis of Natural Gas by Gas Chromatography, for appendices F and G of this part.

(15) ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006), Standard Practice for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography, for appendices F and G of this part.

(16) [Reserved]

(17) ASTM D2013-01, Standard Practice for Preparing Coal Samples for Analysis, for appendix F of this part.

(18) [Reserved]

(19) ASTM D2234-00, Standard Practice for Collection of a Gross Sample of Coal, for appendix F of this part.

(20) [Reserved]

(21) ASTM D2502-92 (Reapproved 1996), Standard Test Method for Estimation of Molecular Weight (Relative Molecular Mass) of Petroleum Oils from Viscosity Measurements, for appendix G of this part.

(22) ASTM D2503-92 (Reapproved 1997), Standard Test Method for Relative Molecular Mass (Molecular Weight) of Hydrocarbons by Thermoelectric Measurement of Vapor Pressure, for appendix G of this part.

(23) ASTM D2622-98, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products by Wavelength Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometry, for appendices A and D of this part.

(24) ASTM D3174-00, Standard Test Method for Ash in the Analysis Sample of Coal and Coke from Coal, for appendix G of this part.

(25) ASTM D3176-89 (Reapproved 2002), Standard Practice for Ultimate Analysis of Coal and Coke, for appendices A and F of this part.

(26) ASTM D3177-02 (Reapproved 2007), Standard Test Methods for Total Sulfur in the Analysis Sample of Coal and Coke, for appendix A of this part.

(27) ASTM D5373-02 (Reapproved 2007) Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal and Coke, for appendix G of this part.

(28) ASTM D3238-95 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Test Method for Calculation of Carbon Distribution and Structural Group Analysis of Petroleum Oils by the n-d-M Method, for appendix G of this part.

(29) ASTM D3246-96, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Gas by Oxidative Microcoulometry, for appendix D of this part.

(30) [Reserved]

(31) ASTM D3588-98, Standard Practice for Calculating Heat Value, Compressibility Factor, and Relative Density of Gaseous Fuels, for appendices D and F to this part.

(32) ASTM D4052-96 (Reapproved 2002), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density of Liquids by Digital Density Meter, for appendix D of this part.

(33) ASTM D4057-95 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Practice for Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products, for appendix D of this part.

(34) ASTM D4177-95 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Practice for Automatic Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products, for appendix D of this part.

(35) ASTM D4239-02, Standard Test Methods for Sulfur in the Analysis Sample of Coal and Coke Using High-Temperature Tube Furnace Combustion Methods, for appendix A of this part.

(36) ASTM D4294-98, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum and Petroleum Products by Energy-Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometry, for appendices A and D of this part.

(37) ASTM D4468-85 (Reapproved 2006), Standard Test Method for Total Sulfur in Gaseous Fuels by Hydrogenolysis and Rateometric Colorimetry, for appendix D of this part.

(38) [Reserved]

(39) ASTM D4891-89 (Reapproved 2006), Standard Test Method for Heating Value of Gases in Natural Gas Range by Stoichiometric Combustion, for appendices D and F to this part.

(40) ASTM D5291-02, Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Petroleum Products and Lubricants, for appendices F and G to this part.

(41) ASTM D5373-02 (Reapproved 2007), "Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal and Coke," for appendix G to this part.

(42) ASTM D5504-01, Standard Test Method for Determination of Sulfur Compounds in Natural Gas and Gaseous Fuels by Gas Chromatography and Chemiluminescence, for appendix D of this part.

(43) [Reserved]

(44) [Reserved]

(45) ASTM D6667-04, Standard Test Method for Determination of Total Volatile Sulfur in Gaseous Hydrocarbons and Liquefied Petroleum Gases by Ultraviolet Fluorescence, for appendix D of this part.

(46) ASTM D4809-00, Standard Test Method for Heat of Combustion of Liquid Hydrocarbon Fuels by Bomb Calorimeter (Precision Method), for appendices D and F of this part.

(47) ASTM D5865-01a, Standard Test Method for Gross Calorific Value of Coal and Coke, for appendices A, D, and F of this part.

(48) ASTM D7036-04, Standard Practice for Competence of Air Emission Testing Bodies, for § 75.21, § 75.59, and appendix A to this part.

(49) ASTM D5453-06, Standard Test Method for Determination of Total Sulfur in Light Hydrocarbons, Spark Ignition Engine Fuel, Diesel Engine Fuel, and Engine Oil by Ultraviolet Fluorescence, for appendix D of this part.

(50) ASTM D5865-10 (Approved January 1, 2010), Standard Test Method for Gross Calorific Value of Coal and Coke, for appendices A, D, and F of this part.

(b) The following materials are available for purchase from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), 22 Law Drive, P.O. Box 2900, Fairfield, New Jersey 07007-2900:

(1) ASME MFC-3M-2004 (Revision of ASME MFC-3M-1989 (R1995)), Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi, for appendix D of this part.

(2) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 1997), Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters, for appendix D of this part.

(3) ASME-MFC-5M-1985 (Reaffirmed 1994), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flowmeters, for appendix D of this part.

(4) ASME MFC-6M-1998, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters, for appendix D of this part.

(5) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992), Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles, for appendix D of this part.

(6) ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method, for appendix D of this part.

(c) The following materials are available for purchase from the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), 25 West 43rd Street, Fourth Floor, New York, New York 10036:

(1) ISO 8316: 1987(E) Measurement of Liquid Flow in closed Conduits-Method by Collection of the Liquid in a Volumetric Tank, for appendices D and E of this part.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) The following materials are available for purchase from the following address: Gas Processors Association (GPA), 6526 East 60th Street, Tulsa, Oklahoma 74143:

(1) GPA Standard 2172-96, Calculation of Gross Heating Value, Relative Density and Compressibility Factor for Natural Gas Mixtures from Compositional Analysis, for appendices D, E, and F of this part.

(2) GPA Standard 2261-00, Analysis for Natural Gas and Similar Gaseous Mixtures by Gas Chromatography, for appendices D, F, and G of this part.

(e) The following American Gas Association materials are available for purchase from the following address: ILI Infodisk, 610 Winters Avenue, Paramus, New Jersey 07652:

(1) American Gas Association Report No. 3: Orifice Metering of Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids, Part 1: General Equations and Uncertainty Guidelines (October 1990 Edition), Part 2: Specification and Installation Requirements (February 1991 Edition) and Part 3: Natural Gas Applications (August 1992 Edition), for appendices D and E of this part.

(2) American Gas Association Transmission Measurement Committee Report No. 7: Measurement of Gas by Turbine Meters (Second Revision, April, 1996), for appendix D to this part.

(f) The following materials are available for purchase from the following address: American Petroleum Institute, Publications Department, 1220 L Street NW, Washington, DC 20005-4070.

(1) American Petroleum Institute (API) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 3-Tank Gauging, Section 1A, Standard Practice for the Manual Gauging of Petroleum and Petroleum Products, Second Edition, August 2005; Section 1B-Standard Practice for Level Measurement of Liquid Hydrocarbons in Stationary Tanks by Automatic Tank Gauging, Second Edition June 2001; Section 2-Standard Practice for Gauging Petroleum and Petroleum Products in Tank Cars, First Edition, August 1995 (Reaffirmed March 2006); Section 3-Standard Practice for Level Measurement of Liquid Hydrocarbons in Stationary Pressurized Storage Tanks by Automatic Tank Gauging, First Edition June 1996; Section 4-Standard Practice for Level Measurement of Liquid Hydrocarbons on Marine Vessels by Automatic Tank Gauging, First Edition April 1995 (Reaffirmed, March 2006); and Section 5-Standard Practice for Level Measurement of Light Hydrocarbon Liquids Onboard Marine Vessels by Automatic Tank Gauging, First Edition March 1997 (Reaffirmed, March 2003); for § 75.19.

(2) Shop Testing of Automatic Liquid Level Gages, Bulletin 2509 B, December 1961 (Reaffirmed August 1987, October 1992), for § 75.19.

(3) American Petroleum Institute (API) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 4-Proving Systems, Section 2-Pipe Provers (Provers Accumulating at Least 10,000 Pulses), Second Edition, March 2001, Section 3-Small Volume Provers, First Edition, July 1988, Reaffirmed Oct 1993, and Section 5-Master-Meter Provers, Second Edition, May 2000, for appendix D to this part.

(4) American Petroleum Institute (API) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 22-Testing Protocol, Section 2-Differential Pressure Flow Measurement Devices (First Edition, August 2005), for appendix D to this part.
