
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### § 75.10 General operating requirements.
####### Primary equipment hourly operating requirements.

(d)The owner or operator shall ensure that all continuous emission and opacity monitoring systems required by this part are in operation and monitoring unit emissions or opacity at all times that the affected unit combusts any fuel except as provided in § 75.11(e) and during periods of calibration, quality assurance, or preventive maintenance, performed pursuant to § 75.21 and appendix B of this part, periods of repair, periods of backups of data from the data acquisition and handling system, or recertification performed pursuant to § 75.20. The owner or operator shall also ensure, subject to the exceptions above in this paragraph, that all continuous opacity monitoring systems required by this part are in operation and monitoring opacity during the time following combustion when fans are still operating, unless fan operation is not required to be included under any other applicable Federal, State, or local regulation, or permit. The owner or operator shall ensure that the following requirements are met:

(1) The owner or operator shall ensure that each continuous emission monitoring system is capable of completing a minimum of one cycle of operation (sampling, analyzing, and data recording) for each successive 15-min interval. The owner or operator shall reduce all SOconcentrations, volumetric flow, SOmass emissions, COconcentration, Oconcentration, COmass emissions (if applicable), NOconcentration, and NOemission rate data collected by the monitors to hourly averages. Hourly averages shall be computed using at least one data point in each fifteen minute quadrant of an hour, where the unit combusted fuel during that quadrant of an hour. Notwithstanding this requirement, an hourly average may be computed from at least two data points separated by a minimum of 15 minutes (where the unit operates for more than one quadrant of an hour) if data are unavailable as a result of the performance of calibration, quality assurance, or preventive maintenance activities pursuant to § 75.21 and appendix B of this part, or backups of data from the data acquisition and handling system, or recertification, pursuant to § 75.20. The owner or operator shall use all valid measurements or data points collected during an hour to calculate the hourly averages. All data points collected during an hour shall be, to the extent practicable, evenly spaced over the hour.

(2) The owner or operator shall ensure that each continuous opacity monitoring system is capable of completing a minimum of one cycle of sampling and analyzing for each successive 10-sec period and one cycle of data recording for each successive 6-min period. The owner or operator shall reduce all opacity data to 6-min averages calculated in accordance with the provisions of part 51, appendix M of this chapter, except where the applicable State implementation plan or operating permit requires a different averaging period, in which case the State requirement shall satisfy this Acid Rain Program requirement.

(3) Failure of an SO, CO, or Oemissions concentration monitor, NOconcentration monitor, flow monitor, moisture monitor, or NO-diluent continuous emission monitoring system to acquire the minimum number of data points for calculation of an hourly average in paragraph (d)(1) of this section shall result in the failure to obtain a valid hour of data and the loss of such component data for the entire hour. For a NO-diluent monitoring system, an hourly average NOemission rate in lb/mmBtu is valid only if the minimum number of data points is acquired by both the NOpollutant concentration monitor and the diluent monitor (Oor CO). For a moisture monitoring system consisting of one or more oxygen analyzers capable of measuring Oon a wet-basis and a dry-basis, an hourly average percent moisture value is valid only if the minimum number of data points is acquired for both the wet-and dry-basis measurements. If a valid hour of data is not obtained, the owner or operator shall estimate and record emissions, moisture, or flow data for the missing hour by means of the automated data acquisition and handling system, in accordance with the applicable procedure for missing data substitution in subpart D of this part.
