
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### § 75.10 General operating requirements.
####### Optional backup monitor requirements.

(e)If the owner or operator chooses to use two or more continuous emission monitoring systems, each of which is capable of monitoring the same stack or duct at a specific affected unit, or group of units using a common stack, then the owner or operator shall designate one monitoring system as the primary monitoring system, and shall record this information in the monitoring plan, as provided for in § 75.53. The owner or operator shall designate the other monitoring system(s) as backup monitoring system(s) in the monitoring plan. The backup monitoring system(s) shall be designated as redundant backup monitoring system(s), non-redundant backup monitoring system(s), or reference method backup system(s), as described in § 75.20(d). When the certified primary monitoring system is operating and not out-of-control as defined in § 75.24, only data from the certified primary monitoring system shall be reported as valid, quality-assured data. Thus, data from the backup monitoring system may be reported as valid, quality-assured data only when the backup is operating and not out-of-control as defined in § 75.24 (or in the applicable reference method in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter) and when the certified primary monitoring system is not operating (or is operating but out-of-control). A particular monitor may be designated both as a certified primary monitor for one unit and as a certified redundant backup monitor for another unit.
