
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.10 General operating requirements.
####### Minimum recording and recordkeeping requirements.
######## Special considerations during the combustion of gaseous fuels.

(e)The owner or operator of an affected unit that uses a certified flow monitor and a certified diluent gas (Oor CO) monitor to measure the unit heat input rate shall, during any hours in which the unit combusts only gaseous fuel, determine SOemissions in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) or (e)(3) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If the gaseous fuel qualifies for a default SOemission rate under Section 2.3.1.1, 2.3.2.1.1, or 2.3.6(b) of appendix D to this part, the owner or operator may determine SOemissions by using Equation F-23 in appendix F to this part. Substitute into Equation F-23 the hourly heat input, calculated using the certified flow monitoring system and the certified diluent monitor (according to the applicable equation in section 5.2 of appendix F to this part), in conjunction with the appropriate default SOemission rate from section 2.3.1.1, 2.3.2.1.1, or 2.3.6(b) of appendix D to this part. When this option is chosen, the owner or operator shall perform the necessary data acquisition and handling system tests under ยง 75.20(c), and shall meet all quality control and quality assurance requirements in appendix B to this part for the flow monitor and the diluent monitor; or

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The owner or operator may determine SOmass emissions by using a certified SOcontinuous monitoring system, in conjunction with the certified flow rate monitoring system. However, if the gaseous fuel is very low sulfur fuel (as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter), the SOmonitoring system shall meet the following quality assurance provisions when the very low sulfur fuel is combusted:

(i) When conducting the daily calibration error tests of the SOmonitoring system, as required by section 2.1.1 in appendix B of this part, the zero-level calibration gas shall have an SOconcentration of 0.0 percent of span. This restriction does not apply if gaseous fuel is burned in the affected unit only during unit startup.
