
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## 4

(4) When the owner or operator elects to demonstrate initial LME qualification and on-going compliance using a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, there will be instances (e.g., for a new or newly-affected unit) where it is not possible to determine that NOemission rate prior to submitting the certification application. In such cases, if the generic default NOemission rates in Table LM-2 of this section are inappropriately high for the unit, the owner or operator may use a more representative, but conservatively high estimate of the expected NOemission rate, for the purposes of the initial monitoring plan submittal and to calculate the unit's projected annual or ozone season emissions under paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. For example, the NOemission rate could, as described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, be estimated using historical CEM data or historical emission test data that is representative of operation at normal load. The NOemission limit specified in the operating permit for the unit could also be used to estimate the NOemission rate (except for units equipped with SCR or SNCR), or, consistent with paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(C)() of this section, for a unit that uses SCR or SNCR to control NOemissions, an estimated default NOemission rate of 0.15 lb/mmBtu could be used. However, these estimated NOemission rates may not be used for reporting purposes in the time period extending from the first hour in which the LME methodology is used to the date and hour on which the fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate testing is completed. Rather, in that interval, the owner or operator shall either report the appropriate default NOemission rate from Table LM-2, or shall report the maximum potential NOemission rate, calculated in accordance with ยง 72.2 of this chapter and section 2.1.2.1 of appendix A to this part. Then, beginning with the first unit operating hour after completion of the tests, the appropriate default NOemission rate(s) obtained from the fuel-and-unit-specific testing shall be used for emissions reporting.
