
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### § 75.15 [Reserved]
######## Unit with a main stack and bypass stack configuration.

(d)For an affected unit with a discharge configuration consisting of a main stack and a bypass stack, the owner or operator shall either:

(1) Follow the procedures in paragraph (c)(1) of this section; or

(2) Install, certify, operate, and maintain a NO-diluent CEMS only on the main stack. If this option is chosen, it is not necessary to designate the exhaust configuration as a multiple stack configuration in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53, with respect to NOor any other parameter that is monitored only at the main stack. For each unit operating hour in which the bypass stack is used and the emissions are either uncontrolled (or the add-on controls are not documented to be operating properly), report the maximum potential NOemission rate (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter). The maximum potential NOemission rate may be specific to the type of fuel combusted in the unit during the bypass (see § 75.33(c)(8)). Alternatively, for a unit with NOadd-on emission controls, for each unit operating hour in which the bypass stack is used and the add-on NOemission controls are not bypassed, the owner or operator may report the maximum controlled NOemission rate (MCR) instead of the maximum potential NOemission rate provided that the add-on controls are documented to be operating properly, as described in the quality assurance/quality control program for the unit, required by section 1 in appendix B of this part. To provide the necessary documentation, the owner or operator shall record parametric data to verify the proper operation of the NOadd-on emission controls as described in § 75.34(d). Furthermore, the owner or operator shall calculate the MCR using the procedure described in section 2.1.2.1(b) of appendix A to this part where the words "maximum potential NOemission rate (MER)" shall apply instead of the words "maximum controlled NOemission rate (MCR)" and by using the NOMEC in the calculations instead of the NOMPC.
