
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## Low mass emissions excepted methodology, calculations, and values,Determination of SO,NO,and CO,emission rates.

(c)-(1),,

(i) If the unit combusts only natural gas and/or fuel oil, use Table LM-1 of this section to determine the appropriate SOemission rate for use in calculating hourly SOmass emissions under this section. Alternatively, for fuel oil combustion, a lower, fuel-specific SOemission factor may be used in lieu of the applicable emission factor from Table LM-1, if a federally enforceable permit condition is in place that limits the sulfur content of the oil. If this alternative is chosen, the fuel-specific SOemission rate in lb/mmBtu shall be calculated by multiplying the fuel sulfur content limit (weight percent sulfur) by 1.01. In addition, the owner or operator shall periodically determine the sulfur content of the oil combusted in the unit, using one of the oil sampling and analysis options described in section 2.2 of appendix D to this part, and shall keep records of these fuel sampling results in a format suitable for inspection and auditing. Alternatively, the required oil sampling and associated recordkeeping may be performed using a consensus standard (e.g., ASTM, API, etc.) that is prescribed in the unit's Federally-enforceable operating permit, in an applicable State regulation, or in another applicable Federal regulation. If the unit combusts gaseous fuel(s) other than natural gas, the owner or operator shall use the procedures in section 2.3.6 of appendix D to this part to document the total sulfur content of each such fuel and to determine the appropriate default SO2 emission rate for each such fuel.

(ii) If the unit combusts only natural gas and/or fuel oil, use either the appropriate NOemission factor from Table LM-2 of this section, or a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate determined according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, to calculate hourly NOmass emissions under this section. If the unit combusts a gaseous fuel other than pipeline natural gas or natural gas, the owner or operator shall determine a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.

(iii) If the unit combusts only natural gas and/or fuel oil, use Table LM-3 of this section to determine the appropriate COemission rate for use in calculating hourly COmass emissions under this section (Acid Rain Program units, only). If the unit combusts a gaseous fuel other than pipeline natural gas or natural gas, the owner or operator shall determine a fuel-and-unit-specific COemission rate for the fuel, as follows:

(A) Derive a carbon-based F-factor for the fuel, using fuel sampling and analysis, as described in section 3.3.6 of appendix F to this part; and

(B) Use Equation G-4 in appendix G to this part to derive the default COemission rate. Rearrange the equation, solving it for the ratio of W/H (this ratio will yield an emission rate, in units of tons/mmBtu). Then, substitute the carbon-based F-factor determined in paragraph (c)(1)(iii)(A) of this section into the rearranged equation to determine the default COemission rate for the unit.

(iv) In lieu of using the default NOemission rate from Table LM-2 of this section, the owner or operator may, for each fuel combusted by a low mass emissions unit, determine a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate for the purpose of calculating NOmass emissions under this section. This option may be used by any unit which qualifies to use the low mass emission excepted methodology under paragraph (a) of this section, and also by groups of units which combust fuel from a common source of supply and which use the long term fuel flow methodology under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section to determine heat input. The testing must be completed in a timely manner, such that the test results are reported electronically no later than the end of the calendar year or ozone season in which the LME methodology is first used. If this option is chosen, the following procedures shall be used.

(A) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(iv)(F), (c)(1)(iv)(G), and (c)(1)(iv)(I) of this section, determine a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate by conducting a four load NOemission rate test procedure as specified in section 2.1 of appendix E to this part, for each type of fuel combusted in the unit. For a group of units sharing a common fuel supply, the appendix E testing must be performed on each individual unit in the group, unless some or all of the units in the group belong to an identical group of units, as defined in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(B) of this section, in which case, representative testing may be conducted on units in the identical group of units, as described in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(B) of this section. For the purposes of this section, make the following modifications to the appendix E test procedures:
