
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## ii

() If the testing is done at both base load and peak load, use the three-run average NOemission rate from the base load testing for base load operating hours and the three-run average NOemission rate from the peak load testing for peak load operating hours.

(D) For each low mass emissions unit, or group of identical units for which the provisions of paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section are used to account for NOemission rate, the owner or operator shall determine a new fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate every five years (20 calendar quarters), unless changes in the fuel supply, physical changes to the unit, changes in the manner of unit operation, or changes to the emission controls occur which may cause a significant increase in the unit's actual NOemission rate. If such changes occur, the fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate(s) shall be re-determined according to paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section. Testing shall be done at the number of loads specified in paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) or (c)(1)(iv)(I) of this section, as applicable. If a low mass emissions unit belongs to a group of identical units and it is required to retest to determine a new fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate because of changes in the fuel supply, physical changes to the unit, changes in the manner of unit operation or changes to the emission controls occur which may cause a significant increase in the unit's actual NOemission rate, any other unit in that group of identical units is not required to re-determine the fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate unless such unit also undergoes changes in the fuel supply, physical changes to the unit, changes in the manner of unit operation or changes to the emission controls occur which may cause a significant increase in the unit's actual NOemission rates.

(E) Each low mass emissions unit or each low mass emissions unit in a group of identical units for which a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate(s) are determined shall meet the quality assurance and quality control provisions of paragraph (e) of this section.

(F) Low mass emission units may use the results of appendix E testing, if such test results are available from a test conducted no more than five years prior to the time of initial certification, to determine the appropriate fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate(s). However, fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rates from historical testing may not be used longer than five years after the appendix E testing was conducted.

(G) Low mass emissions units for which at least 3 years of quality-assured NOemission rate data from a NO-diluent CEMS that meets the quality assurance requirements of either: this part, or appendix F to part 60 of this chapter, or a comparable State CEM program, and corresponding fuel usage data are available may determine fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rates from the actual data using the following procedure. Separate the actual NOemission rate data into groups, according to the type of fuel combusted. Discard data from periods when multiple fuels were combusted. Each fuel-specific data set must contain at least 168 hours of data and must represent all normal operating ranges of the unit when combusting the fuel. Sort the data in each fuel-specific data set in ascending order according to NOemission rate. Determine the 95th percentile NOemission rate for each data set as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter. Use the 95th percentile value for each data set as the fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate, except that for a unit that uses SCR or SNCR for NOemission control, if the 95th percentile value is less than 0.15 lb/mmBtu, a value of 0.15 lb/mmBtu shall be used as the fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate.

(H) For low mass emission units with add-on NOemission controls, and for units that use dry low-NOtechnology, the owner or operator shall, during every hour of unit operation during the test period, monitor and record parameters, as required under paragraph (e)(5) of this section, which indicate that the NOemission controls are operating properly. After the test period, these same parameters shall be monitored and recorded and kept for all operating hours in order to determine whether the NOcontrols are operating properly and to allow the determination of the correct NOemission rate as required under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section.
