
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## 1

() Determine the range of operation of the unit, according to section 6.5.2.1 of appendix A to this part. Divide the range of operation into four equal load bands. For example, if the range of operation extends from 20 MW to 100 MW, the four equal load bands would be: band #1: from 20 MW to 40 MW; band #2: from 41 MW to 60 MW; band #3: from 61 MW to 80 MW; and band #4: from 81 to 100 MW. Then, perform a historical load analysis for all unit operating hours in the 12 calendar quarters preceding the quarter of the test. Alternatively, for sources that report emissions data only during the ozone season, the historical load analysis may be based on unit operation in the previous three ozone seasons, rather than unit operation in the previous 12 calendar quarters. Determine the percentage of the data that fall into each load band. For a unit that is not part of a group of identical units, if 85.0% or more of the data fall into one load band, single-load testing may be performed at any point within that load band. For a group of identical units, if each unit in the group meets the 85.0% criterion, then representative single-load testing within the load band may be performed. If the 85.0% criterion cannot be met to qualify for single-load testing but this criterion can be met cumulatively for two (or three) load levels, then testing may be performed at two (or three) loads instead of four.
