
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## Records of operating time, fuel usage, unit output and NO,emission control operating status.

(2)The owner or operator shall keep the following records on-site, for three years, in a form suitable for inspection, except that for unmanned facilities, the records may be kept at a central location, rather than on-site:

(i) For each low mass emissions unit, the owner or operator shall keep hourly records which indicate whether or not the unit operated during each clock hour of each calendar year. The owner or operator may report partial operating hours or may assume that for each hour the unit operated the operating time is a whole hour. Units using partial operating hours and the maximum rated hourly heat input to calculate heat input for each hour must report partial operating hours.

(ii) For each low mass emissions unit, the owner or operator shall keep hourly records indicating the type(s) of fuel(s) combusted in the unit during each hour of unit operation.

(iii) For each low mass emissions unit using the long term fuel flow methodology under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section to determine hourly heat input, the owner or operator shall keep hourly records of unit load (in megawatts or thousands of pounds of steam per hour), for the purpose of apportioning heat input to the individual unit operating hours.

(iv) For each low mass emissions unit with add-on NOemission controls of any kind and each unit that uses dry low-NOtechnology, the owner or operator shall keep hourly records of the hourly value of the parameter(s) specified in (c)(1)(iv)(H) of this section used to indicate proper operation of the unit's NOcontrols.
