
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## Maximum rated hourly heat input method.

(i)(A) For the purposes of the mass emission calculation methodology of paragraph (c)(3) of this section, HI, the hourly heat input (mmBtu) to a low mass emissions unit shall be deemed to equal the maximum rated hourly heat input, as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter, multiplied by the operating time of the unit for each hour. The owner or operator may choose to record and report partial operating hours or may assume that a unit operated for a whole hour for each hour the unit operated. However, the owner or operator of a unit may petition the Administrator under ยง 75.66 for a lower value for maximum rated hourly heat input than that defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter. The Administrator may approve such lower value if the owner or operator demonstrates that either the maximum hourly heat input specified by the manufacturer or the highest observed hourly heat input, or both, are not representative, and such a lower value is representative, of the unit's current capabilities because modifications have been made to the unit, limiting its capacity permanently.

(B) The quarterly heat input, HI, in mmBtu, shall be determined using Equation LM-1:

(C) The year-to-date cumulative heat input (mmBtu) shall be the sum of the quarterly heat input values for all of the calendar quarters in the year to date.

(D) For a unit subject to the provisions of subpart H of this part, which is not required to report emission data on a year-round basis and elects to report only during the ozone season, the quarterly heat input for the second calendar quarter of the year shall, for compliance purposes, include only the heat input for the months of May and June, and the cumulative ozone season heat input shall be the sum of the heat input values for May, June and the third calendar quarter of the year.
