
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## 2

() Using the appropriate default specific gravity value in Table LM-6 of this section.

(E) The quarterly heat input from each type of fuel combusted during the quarter by a low mass emissions unit or group of low mass emissions units sharing a common fuel supply shall be determined using either Equation LM-2 or Equation LM-3 for oil (as applicable to the method used to quantify oil usage) and Equation LM-3 for gaseous fuels. For a unit subject to the provisions of subpart H of this part, which is not required to report emission data on a year-round basis and elects to report only during the ozone season, the quarterly heat input for the second calendar quarter of the year shall include only the heat input for the months of May and June.

(F) Use Eq. LM-4 to calculate HI, the quarterly heat input (mmBtu) for all fuels. HIshall be the sum of the HIvalues determined using Equations LM-2 and LM-3.

(G) The year-to-date cumulative heat input (mmBtu) for all fuels shall be the sum of all quarterly total heat input (HI) values for all calendar quarters in the year to date. For a unit subject to the provisions of subpart H of this part, which is not required to report emission data on a year-round basis and elects to report only during the ozone season, the cumulative ozone season heat input shall be the sum of the quarterly heat input values for the second and third calendar quarters of the year.

(H) For each low mass emissions unit or each low mass emissions unit in a group of identical units, the owner or operator shall determine the cumulative quarterly unit load in megawatt hours or thousands of pounds of steam. The quarterly cumulative unit load shall be the sum of the hourly unit load values recorded under paragraph (c)(2) of this section and shall be determined using Equations LM-5 or LM-6. For a unit subject to the provisions of subpart H of this part, which is not required to report emission data on a year-round basis and elects to report only during the ozone season, the quarterly cumulative load for the second calendar quarter of the year shall include only the unit loads for the months of May and June.

(I) For a low mass emissions unit that is not included in a group of low mass emission units sharing a common fuel supply, apportion the total heat input for the quarter, HIto each hour of unit operation using either Equation LM-7 or LM-8:

(J) For each low mass emissions unit that is included in a group of units sharing a common fuel supply, apportion the total heat input for the quarter, HIto each hour of operation using either Equation LM-7a or LM-8a:
