
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## SO,mass emissions.

(i)(A) The hourly SOmass emissions (lbs) for a low mass emissions unit (Acid Rain Program units, only) shall be determined using Equation LM-9 and the appropriate fuel-based SOemission factor for the fuels combusted in that hour. If more than one fuel is combusted in the hour, use the highest emission factor for all of the fuels combusted in the hour. If records are missing as to which fuel was combusted in the hour, use the highest emission factor for all of the fuels capable of being combusted in the unit.

(B) The quarterly SOmass emissions (tons) for the low mass emissions unit shall be the sum of all the hourly SOmass emissions in the quarter, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(A) of this section, divided by 2000 lb/ton.

(C) The year-to-date cumulative SOmass emissions (tons) for the low mass emissions unit shall be the sum of the quarterly SOmass emissions, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(i)(B) of this section, for all of the calendar quarters in the year to date.

(ii)(A) The hourly NOmass emissions for the low mass emissions unit (lbs) shall be determined using Equation LM-10. If more than one fuel is combusted in the hour, use the highest emission rate for all of the fuels combusted in the hour. If records are missing as to which fuel was combusted in the hour, use the highest emission factor for all of the fuels capable of being combusted in the unit. For low mass emission units with NOemission controls of any kind and for which a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate is determined under paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, for any hour in which the parameters under paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(A) of this section do not show that the NOemission controls are operating properly, use the NOemission rate from Table LM-2 of this section for the fuel combusted during the hour with the highest NOemission rate.

(B) The quarterly NOmass emissions (tons) for the low mass emissions unit shall be the sum of all of the hourly NOmass emissions in the quarter, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, divided by 2000 lb/ton.

(C) The year-to-date cumulative NOmass emissions (tons) for the low mass emissions unit shall be the sum of the quarterly NOmass emissions, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, for all of the calendar quarters in the year to date. For a unit subject to the provisions of subpart H of this part, which is not required to report emission data on a year-round basis and elects to report only during the ozone season, the ozone season NOmass emissions for the unit shall be the sum of the quarterly NOmass emissions, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section, for the second and third calendar quarters of the year, and the second quarter report shall include emissions data only for May and June.

(D) The quarterly and cumulative NOemission rate in lb/mmBtu (if required by the applicable program(s)) shall be determined as follows. Calculate the quarterly NOemission rate by taking the arithmetic average of all of the hourly EFvalues. Calculate the cumulative (year-to-date) NOemission rate by taking the arithmetic average of the quarterly NOemission rates.
