
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## 2

(2) For low mass emissions units or groups of units which use the long term fuel flow methodology under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section and which use one of the methods specified in paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B)() of this section to determine fuel usage, the owner or operator shall keep, at the facility, a copy of the standard used and shall keep records, for three years, of all measurements obtained for each quarter using the methodology.

(3) For low mass emission units or groups of units which use the long term fuel flow methodology under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section and which use a certified fuel flow meter to determine fuel usage, the owner or operator shall comply with the quality control quality assurance requirements for a fuel flow meter under section 2.1.6 of appendix D of this part.

(4) For each low mass emissions unit for which fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rates are determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section, the owner or operator shall keep, at the facility, records which document the results of all NOemission rate tests conducted according to appendix E to this part. If CEMS data are used to determine the fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rates under paragraph (c)(1)(iv)(G) of this section, the owner or operator shall keep, at the facility, records of the CEMS data and the data analysis performed to determine a fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rate. The appendix E test records and historical CEMS data records shall be kept until the fuel and unit specific NOemission rates are re-determined.

(5) For each low mass emissions unit for which fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rates are determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section and which has add-on NOemission controls of any kind or uses dry low-NOtechnology, the owner or operator shall develop and keep on-site a quality assurance plan which explains the procedures used to document proper operation of the NOemission controls. The plan shall include the parameters monitored (e.g., water-to-fuel ratio) and the acceptable ranges for each parameter used to determine proper operation of the unit's NOcontrols.

(6) For unmanned facilities, the records required by paragraphs (e)(1), (e)(2) and (e)(4) of this section may be kept at a central location, rather than at the facility.
