
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart B - Monitoring Provisions
###### ยง 75.18 Specific provisions for monitoring emissions from common and by-pass stacks for opacity.
####### Unit using bypass stack.
######## CO,Mass Emissions.

(iii)(A) The hourly COmass emissions (tons) for the affected low mass emissions unit (Acid Rain Program units, only) shall be determined using Equation LM-11 and the appropriate fuel-based COemission factor from Table LM-3 of this section for the fuel being combusted in that hour. If more than one fuel is combusted in the hour, use the highest emission factor for all of the fuels combusted in the hour. If records are missing as to which fuel was combusted in the hour, use the highest emission factor for all of the fuels capable of being combusted in the unit.

(B) The quarterly COmass emissions (tons) for the low mass emissions unit shall be the sum of all of the hourly COmass emissions in the quarter, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(A)of this section.

(C) The year-to-date cumulative COmass emissions (tons) for the low mass emissions unit shall be the sum of all of the quarterly COmass emissions, as determined under paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(B) of this section, for all of the calendar quarters in the year to date.

(d) Each unit that qualifies under this section to use the low mass emissions methodology must follow the recordkeeping and reporting requirements pertaining to low mass emissions units in subparts F and G of this part.

(e) The quality control and quality assurance requirements in ยง 75.21 are not applicable to a low mass emissions unit for which the low mass emissions excepted methodology under paragraph (c) of this section is being used in lieu of a continuous emission monitoring system or an excepted monitoring system under appendix D or E to this part, except for fuel flowmeters used to meet the provisions in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. However, the owner or operator of a low mass emissions unit shall implement the following quality assurance and quality control provisions:

(1) For low mass emission units or groups of units which use the long term fuel flow methodology under paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section and which use fuel billing records to determine fuel usage, the owner or operator shall keep, at the facility, for three years, the records of the fuel billing statements used for long term fuel flow determinations.
