
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### ยง 75.20 Initial certification and recertification procedures.
####### Recertification approval process.

(b)Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change in a certified continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system that may significantly affect the ability of the system to accurately measure or record the SOor COconcentration, stack gas volumetric flow rate, NOemission rate, NOconcentration, percent moisture, or opacity, or to meet the requirements of ยง 75.21 or appendix B to this part, the owner or operator shall recertify the continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system, according to the procedures in this paragraph. Furthermore, whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change to the flue gas handling system or the unit operation that may significantly change the flow or concentration profile, the owner or operator shall recertify the monitoring system according to the procedures in this paragraph. Examples of changes which require recertification include: replacement of the analyzer; change in location or orientation of the sampling probe or site; and complete replacement of an existing continuous emission monitoring system or continuous opacity monitoring system. The owner or operator shall also recertify the continuous emission monitoring systems for a unit that has recommenced commercial operation following a period of long-term cold storage as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter. The owner or operator shall recertify a continuous opacity monitoring system whenever the monitor path length changes or as required by an applicable State or local regulation or permit. Any change to a flow monitor or gas monitoring system for which a RATA is not necessary shall not be considered a recertification event. In addition, changing the polynomial coefficients or K factor(s) of a flow monitor shall require a 3-load RATA, but is not considered to be a recertification event; however, records of the polynomial coefficients or K factor (s) currently in use shall be maintained on-site in a format suitable for inspection. Changing the coefficient or K factor(s) of a moisture monitoring system shall require a RATA, but is not considered to be a recertification event; however, records of the coefficient or K factor (s) currently in use by the moisture monitoring system shall be maintained on-site in a format suitable for inspection. In such cases, any other tests that are necessary to ensure continued proper operation of the monitoring system (e.g., 3-load flow RATAs following changes to flow monitor polynomial coefficients, linearity checks, calibration error tests, DAHS verifications, etc.) shall be performed as diagnostic tests, rather than as recertification tests. The data validation procedures in paragraph (b)(3) of this section shall be applied to RATAs associated with changes to flow or moisture monitor coefficients, and to linearity checks, 7-day calibration error tests, and cycle time tests, when these are required as diagnostic tests. When the data validation procedures of paragraph (b)(3) of this section are applied in this manner, replace the word "recertification" with the word "diagnostic."
