
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### ยง 75.20 Initial certification and recertification procedures.
####### 1,2

(F) If the results of any trial gas injection(s) or RATA run(s) are outside the limits in paragraphs (b)(3)(vii)(E)() or () of this section or if the CEMS is repaired, re-linearized or reprogrammed after the trial injection(s) or run(s), the trial injection(s) or run(s) shall be counted as a failed linearity check or RATA attempt. If this occurs, follow the procedures pertaining to failed and aborted recertification tests in paragraphs (b)(3)(vii)(A) and (b)(3)(vii)(B) of this section.

(viii) If any required recertification test is not completed within its allotted time period, data validation shall be done as follows. For a late linearity test, RATA, or cycle time test that is passed on the first attempt, data from the monitoring system shall be invalidated from the hour of expiration of the recertification test period until the hour of completion of the late test. For a late 7-day calibration error test, whether or not it is passed on the first attempt, data from the monitoring system shall also be invalidated from the hour of expiration of the recertification test period until the hour of completion of the late test. For a late linearity test, RATA, or cycle time test that is failed on the first attempt or aborted on the first attempt due to a problem with the monitor, all conditionally valid data from the monitoring system shall be considered invalid back to the hour of the first probationary calibration error test which initiated the recertification test period. Data from the monitoring system shall remain invalid until the hour of successful completion of the late recertification test and any additional recertification or diagnostic tests that are required as a result of changes made to the monitoring system to correct problems that caused failure of the late recertification test.
