
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### § 75.20 Initial certification and recertification procedures.
####### i.e.,i.e.

(ix) If any required recertification test of a monitoring system has not been completed by the end of a calendar quarter and if data contained in the quarterly report are conditionally valid pending the results of test(s) to be completed in a subsequent quarter, the owner or operator shall indicate this by means of a suitable conditionally valid data flag in the electronic quarterly report for that quarter. The owner or operator shall resubmit the report for that quarter if the required recertification test is subsequently failed. In the resubmitted report, the owner or operator shall use the appropriate missing data routine in § 75.31 or § 75.33 to replace with substitute data each hour of conditionally valid data that was invalidated by the failed recertification test. Alternatively, if any required recertification test is not completed by the end of a particular calendar quarter but is completed no later than 30 days after the end of that quarter (, prior to the deadline for submitting the quarterly report under § 75.64), the test data and results may be submitted with the earlier quarterly report even though the test date(s) are from the next calendar quarter. In such instances, if the recertification test(s) are passed in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(3) of this section, conditionally valid data may be reported as quality-assured, in lieu of reporting a conditional data flag. If the recertification test(s) is failed and if conditionally valid data are replaced, as appropriate, with substitute data, then neither the reporting of a conditional data flag nor resubmission is required. In addition, if the owner or operator uses a conditionally valid data flag in any of the four quarterly reports for a given year, the owner or operator shall indicate the final status of the conditionally valid data (, resolved or unresolved) in the annual compliance certification report required under § 72.90 of this chapter for that year. The Administrator may invalidate any conditionally valid data that remains unresolved at the end of a particular calendar year and may require the owner or operator to resubmit one or more of the quarterly reports for that calendar year, replacing the unresolved conditionally valid data with substitute data values determined in accordance with § 75.31 or § 75.33, as appropriate.
