
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### § 75.20 Initial certification and recertification procedures.
####### Approval or disapproval of request for recertification.

(5)The procedures for provisional certification in paragraph (a)(3) of this section shall apply to recertification applications. The Administrator will issue a notice of approval, disapproval, or incompleteness according to the procedures in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. In the event that a recertification application is disapproved, data from the monitoring system are invalidated and the applicable missing data procedures in §§ 75.31 or 75.33 shall be used from the date and hour of receipt of the disapproval notice back to the hour of the adjustment or change to the CEMS that triggered the need for recertification testing or, if the conditional data validation procedures in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) of this section were used, back to the hour of the probationary calibration error test that began the recertification test period. Data from the monitoring system remain invalid until all required recertification tests have been passed or until a subsequent probationary calibration error test is passed, beginning a new recertification test period. The owner or operator shall repeat all recertification tests or other requirements, as indicated in the Administrator's notice of disapproval, no later than 30 unit operating days after the date of issuance of the notice of disapproval. The designated representative shall submit a notification of the recertification retest dates, as specified in § 75.61(a)(1)(ii), and shall submit a new recertification application according to the procedures in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.
