
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### § 75.20 Initial certification and recertification procedures.
####### e.g.,

(vii) Each regular non-redundant backup CEMS shall be represented in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53 as a separate monitoring system, with unique system and component identification numbers. When like-kind replacement non-redundant backup analyzers are used, the owner or operator shall represent each like-kind replacement analyzer used during a particular calendar quarter in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53 as a component of a primary monitoring system. The owner or operator shall also assign a unique component identification number to each like-kind replacement analyzer, beginning with the letters "LK" ("LK1," "LK2," etc.) and shall specify the manufacturer, model and serial number of the like-kind replacement analyzer. This information may be added, deleted or updated as necessary, from quarter to quarter. The owner or operator shall also report data from the like-kind replacement analyzer using the system identification number of the primary monitoring system and the assigned component identification number of the like-kind replacement analyzer. For the purposes of the electronic quarterly report required under § 75.64, the owner or operator may manually enter the appropriate component identification number(s) of any like-kind replacement analyzer(s) used for data reporting during the quarter.

(viii) When reporting data from a certified regular non-redundant backup CEMS, use a method of determination (MODC) code of "02." When reporting data from a like-kind replacement non-redundant backup analyzer, use a MODC of "17" (see Table 4a under § 75.57). For the purposes of the electronic quarterly report required under § 75.64, the owner or operator may manually enter the required MODC of "17" for a like-kind replacement analyzer.
