
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### § 75.21 Quality assurance and quality control requirements.
####### Continuous emission monitoring systems.

(a)The owner or operator of an affected unit shall operate, calibrate and maintain each continuous emission monitoring system used to report emission data under the Acid Rain Program as follows:

(1) The owner or operator shall operate, calibrate and maintain each primary and redundant backup continuous emission monitoring system according to the quality assurance and quality control procedures in appendix B of this part.

(2) The owner or operator shall ensure that each non-redundant backup CEMS meets the quality assurance requirements of § 75.20(d) for each day and quarter that the system is used to report data.

(3) The owner or operator shall perform quality assurance upon a reference method backup monitoring system according to the requirements of Method 2, 6C, 7E, or 3A in Appendices A-1, A-2 and A-4 to part 60 of this chapter (supplemented, as necessary, by guidance from the Administrator), instead of the procedures specified in appendix B to this part.

(4) The owner or operator of a unit with an SOcontinuous emission monitoring system is not required to perform the daily or quarterly assessments of the SOmonitoring system under appendix B to this part on any day or in any calendar quarter in which only gaseous fuel is combusted in the unit if, during those days and calendar quarters, SOemissions are determined in accordance with § 75.11(e)(1). However, such assessments are permissible, and if any daily calibration error test or linearity test of the SOmonitoring system is failed while the unit is combusting only gaseous fuel, the SOmonitoring system shall be considered out-of-control. The length of the out-of-control period shall be determined in accordance with the applicable procedures in section 2.1.4 or 2.2.3 of appendix B to this part.

(5) For a unit with an SOcontinuous monitoring system, in which gaseous fuel that is very low sulfur fuel (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter) is sometimes burned as a primary or backup fuel and in which higher-sulfur fuel(s) such as oil or coal are, at other times, burned as primary or backup fuel(s), the owner shall perform the relative accuracy test audits of the SOmonitoring system (as required by section 6.5 of appendix A to this part and section 2.3.1 of appendix B to this part) only when the higher-sulfur fuel is combusted in the unit and shall not perform SOrelative accuracy test audits when the very low sulfur gaseous fuel is the only fuel being combusted.

(6) If the designated representative certifies that a unit with an SOmonitoring system burns only very low sulfur fuel (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter), the SOmonitoring system is exempted from the relative accuracy test audit requirements in appendices A and B to this part.
