
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart C - Operation and Maintenance Requirements
###### § 75.21 Quality assurance and quality control requirements.
####### pgvp@epa.gov,,pgvp@epa.gov,,pgvp@epa.gov,,see,http://www.epa.gov/airmarkets/emissions/pgvp.html).

(iv) Each participating EPA Protocol gas production site shall have NIST provide all of the information required by paragraphs (g)(9)(ii) through (g)(9)(v) of this section in draft and final electronic audit reports on all cylinders in the current audit, and in a draft redacted electronic audit report containing just that production site's information. The draft audit report on all cylinders in the current audit and each draft redacted version of the audit report shall be submitted electronically by NIST tounless otherwise provided by the Administrator, within four weeks of completion of all cylinder analyses or as soon as possible thereafter. The draft and final audit report on all cylinders in the current audit shall only be sent to EPA. EPA will send the applicable draft redacted audit report to each participating production site for comment. To be considered in the final posted audit report, EPA must receive comments, and any cylinder re-analyses from participating EPA Protocol gas production sites within 60 days of the participating EPA Protocol gas production site's receipt of the draft redacted audit report. All comments from production sites, including any cylinder re-analyses, on the draft redacted versions of the audit report shall be submitted electronically tounless otherwise provided by the Administrator. The final audit report on all cylinders in the current audit shall be submitted electronically by NIST tounless otherwise provided by the Administrator, within 90 days of the participating EPA Protocol gas production site's receipt of the draft redacted audit report sent by EPA or as soon as possible thereafter. EPA will post the final results of the NIST analyses on EPA Web sites (the CAMD Web siteEach audit report shall include:

(A) A table with the information and in the format specified by Figure 3 (or the Note below Figure 3, as applicable) of appendix B to this part or such revised format as approved by the Administrator; and

(B) Complete documentation of the NIST procedures used to analyze the cylinders, including the analytical reference standards, analytical method, analytical method uncertainty, analytical instrumentation, and instrument calibration procedures.

(v) For EPA Protocol gas production sites that produce EPA Protocol gas cylinders claiming NIST traceability for both NO and NOconcentrations in the same cylinder, if analyzed by NIST for the PGVP, such cylinders must be analyzed by NIST for both the NO and NOcomponents (where total NOis determined by NO plus NO) and the results of the analyses shall be included in the audit report.

(10) An EPA Protocol gas production site shall continue to be on the EPA list of sites participating in the PGVP and may continue to sell EPA Protocol gases to sources subject to part 75 if it is not notified by EPA that its cylinders are being audited under the PGVP if it provides the information described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section in accordance with paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(11) The data validation procedures under §§ 2.1.4, 2.2.3, and 2.3.2 of appendix B to this part apply.
