
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart D - Missing Data Substitution Procedures
###### ยง 75.32 Determination of monitor data availability for standard missing data procedures.
####### i.e.,
######## SO,concentration data.

(b)For each hour of missing SOconcentration data,

(1) If the monitor data availability is equal to or greater than 95.0 percent, the owner or operator shall calculate substitute data by means of the automated data acquisition and handling system for that hour of the missing data period according to the following procedures:

(i) For a missing data period less than or equal to 24 hours, substitute the average of the hourly SOconcentrations recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor for the hour before and the hour after the missing data period.

(ii) For a missing data period greater than 24 hours, substitute the greater of:

(A) The 90th percentile hourly SOconcentration recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor during the previous 720 quality-assured monitor operating hours; or

(B) The average of the hourly SOconcentrations recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor for the hour before and the hour after the missing data period.

(2) If the monitor data availability is at least 90.0 percent but less than 95.0 percent, the owner or operator shall calculate substitute data by means of the automated data acquisition and handling system for that hour of the missing data period according to the following procedures:

(i) For a missing data period of less than or equal to 8 hours, substitute the average of the hourly SOconcentrations recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor for the hour before and the hour after the missing data period.

(ii) For a missing data period of more than 8 hours, substitute the greater of:

(A) the 95th percentile hourly SOconcentration recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor during the previous 720 quality-assured monitor operating hours; or

(B) The average of the hourly SOconcentrations recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor for the hour before and the hour after the missing data period.

(3) If the monitor data availability is at least 80.0 percent but less than 90.0 percent, the owner or operator shall substitute for that hour of the missing data period the maximum hourly SOconcentration recorded by an SOpollutant concentration monitor during the previous 720 quality-assured monitor operating hours.

(4) If the monitor data availability is less than 80.0 percent, the owner or operator shall substitute for that hour of the missing data period the maximum potential SOconcentration, as defined in section 2.1.1.1 of appendix A to this part.

(5) For units that combust more than one type of fuel, the owner or operator may opt to implement the missing data routines in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section on a fuel-specific basis. If this option is selected, the owner or operator shall document this in the monitoring plan required under ยง 75.53.

(6) Use the following guidelines to implement paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section on a fuel-specific basis:

(i) Separate the historical, quality-assured SOconcentration data according to the type of fuel combusted;

(ii) For units that co-fire different types of fuel, either group the co-fired hours with the historical data for the fuel with the highest SOemission rate (e.g., if diesel oil and pipeline natural gas are co-fired, count co-fired hours as oil-burning hours), or separate the co-fired hours from the single-fuel hours;

(iii) For the purposes of providing substitute data under paragraph (b)(4) of this section, determine a separate, fuel-specific maximum potential SOconcentration (MPC) value for each type of fuel combusted in the unit, in a manner consistent with section 2.1.1.1 of appendix A to this part. For fuel that qualifies as pipeline natural gas or natural gas (as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter), the owner or operator shall, for the purposes of determining the MPC, either determine the maximum total sulfur content and minimum gross calorific value (GCV) of the gas by fuel sampling and analysis or shall use a default total sulfur content of 0.05 percent by weight (dry basis) and a default GCV value of 950 Btu/scf. For co-firing, the MPC value shall be based on the fuel with the highest SOemission rate. The exact methodology used to determine each fuel-specific MPC value shall be documented in the monitoring plan for the unit or stack; and

(iv) For missing data periods that require 720-hour (or, if applicable, 3-year) lookbacks, use historical data for the type of fuel combusted during each hour of the missing data period to determine the appropriate substitute data value for that hour. For co-fired missing data hours, if the historical data are separated into single-fuel and co-fired hours, use co-fired data to provide the substitute data values. Otherwise, use data for the fuel with the highest SOemission rate to provide substitute data values for co-fired missing data hours.

(7) Table 1 summarizes the provisions of paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section.
