
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart E - Alternative Monitoring Systems
###### ยง 75.41 Precision criteria.
####### Data collection and analysis.

(a)To demonstrate precision equal to or better than the continuous emission monitoring system, the owner or operator shall conduct an F-test, a correlation analysis, and a t-test for bias as described in this section. The t-test shall be performed only on sample data at the normal operating level and primary fuel supply, whereas the F-test and the correlation analysis must be performed on each of the data sets required under paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section. The owner or operator shall collect and analyze data according to the following requirements:

(1) Data from the alternative monitoring system and the continuous emission monitoring system shall be collected and paired in a manner that ensures each pair of values applies to hourly average emissions during the same hour.

(2) An alternative monitoring system that directly measures emissions shall have probes or other measuring devices in locations that are in proximity to the continuous emission monitoring system and shall provide data on the same parameters as those measured by the continuous emission monitoring system. Data from the alternative monitoring system shall meet the statistical tests for precision in paragraph (c) of this section and the t-test for bias in appendix A of this part.

(3) An alternative monitoring system that indirectly quantifies emission values by measuring inputs, operating characteristics, or outputs and then applying a regression or another quantitative technique to estimate emissions, shall meet the statistical tests for precision in paragraph (c) of this section and the t-test for bias in appendix A of this part.

(4) For flow monitor alternatives, the alternative monitoring system must provide sample data for each of three different exhaust gas velocities while the unit or units, if more than one unit exhausts into the stack or duct, is burning its primary fuel at:

(i) A frequently used low operating level, selected within the range between the minimum safe and stable operating level and 50 percent of the maximum operating level,

(ii) A frequently used high operating level, selected within the range between 80 percent of the maximum operating level and the maximum operating level, and

(iii) The normal operating level, or an evenly spaced intermediary level between low and high levels used if the normal operating level is within a specified range (10.0 percent of the maximum operating level), of either paragraphs (a)(4) (i) or (ii) of this section.

(5) For pollutant concentration monitor alternatives, the alternative monitoring system shall provide sample data for the primary fuel supply and for all alternative fuel supplies that have significantly different sulfur content.

(6) For the normal unit operating level and primary fuel supply, paired hourly sample data shall be provided for at least 90.0 percent of the hours during 720 unit operating hours. For each of the remaining two operating levels for flow monitor alternatives, and for each alternative fuel supply for pollutant concentration monitor alternatives, paired hourly sample data shall be provided for at least 24 successive unit operating hours.

(7) The owner or operator shall not use missing data substitution procedures to provide sample data.

(8) If the collected data meet the requirements of the F-test, the correlation test, and the t-test at one or more, but not all, of the operating levels or fuel supplies, the owner or operator may elect to continue collecting the paired data for up to 1,440 additional operating hours and repeat the statistical tests using the data for the entire 30- to 90-day period.

(9) The owner or operator shall provide two separate time series data plots for the data at each operating level or fuel supply described in paragraphs (a)(4) and (a)(5) of this section. Each data plot shall have a horizontal axis that represents the clock hour and calendar date of the readings and shall contain a separate data point for every hour for the duration of the performance evaluation. The data plots shall show the following:

(i) Percentage difference versus time where the vertical axis represents the percentage difference between each paired hourly reading generated by the continuous emission monitoring system (or reference method) and the alternative emission monitoring system as calculated using the following equation:

(ii) Alternative monitoring system readings and continuous emission monitoring system (or reference method) readings versus time where the vertical axis represents hourly pollutant concentrations or volumetric flow, as appropriate, and two different symbols are used to represent the readings from the alternative monitoring system and the continuous emission monitoring system (or reference method), respectively.
