
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart E - Alternative Monitoring Systems
###### ยง 75.41 Precision criteria.
####### S

(iii) If the data in a data set satisfy the conditions for autocorrelation, specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the variance of the data,, may be adjusted using the following equation:

(iv) The procedures described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)-(iii) of this section may be separately applied to the following data sets in order to derive distinct autocorrelation coefficients and variance inflation factors for each data set:

(A) The set of measured hourly values, e, generated by the certified continuous emissions monitoring system or certified flow monitoring system.

(B) The set of hourly values, e, generated by the proposed alternative monitoring system,

(C) The set of hourly differences, e-e, between the hourly values, e, generated by the certified continuous emissions monitoring system or certified flow monitoring system and the hourly values, e, generated by the proposed alternative monitoring system.

(v) For any data set, listed in paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, that satisfies the conditions for autocorrelation specified in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the owner or operator may adjust the variance of that data set, using equation 20 of this section.

(A) The adjusted variance may be used in place of the corresponding original variance, as calculated using equation 23 of this section, in the F-test (Equation 24) of this section.

(B) In place of the standard error of the mean,

(vi) For each data set in which a variance adjustment is used, the owner or operator shall provide the following:

(A) All values in the data set in printed and electronic format.

(B) Values of the autocorrelation coefficient, its level of significance, the variance inflation factor, and the unadjusted original and adjusted values found in equations 20 and 22 of this section.

(C) Equation and related statistics of the AR(1) autoregression model of the data set.

(D) Printed documentation of the intermediate calculations used to derive the autocorrelation coefficient and the Variance Inflation Factor.
