
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### § 75.53 Monitoring plan.
####### Hardcopy.

(2)(i) Information, including (as applicable): identification of the test strategy; protocol for the relative accuracy test audit; other relevant test information; calibration gas levels (percent of span) for the calibration error test and linearity check; calculations for determining maximum potential concentration, maximum expected concentration (if applicable), maximum potential flow rate, maximum potential NOemission rate, and span; and apportionment strategies under §§ 75.10 through 75.18.

(ii) Description of site locations for each monitoring component in the continuous emission or opacity monitoring systems, including schematic diagrams and engineering drawings specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv) and (e)(2)(v) of this section and any other documentation that demonstrates each monitor location meets the appropriate siting criteria.

(iii) A data flow diagram denoting the complete information handling path from output signals of CEMS components to final reports.

(iv) For units monitored by a continuous emission or opacity monitoring system, a schematic diagram identifying entire gas handling system from boiler to stack for all affected units, using identification numbers for units, monitor components, and stacks corresponding to the identification numbers provided in paragraphs (e)(1)(i), (e)(1)(iv), (e)(1)(vi), and (e)(1)(ix) of this section. The schematic diagram must depict stack height and the height of any monitor locations. Comprehensive and/or separate schematic diagrams shall be used to describe groups of units using a common stack.

(v) For units monitored by a continuous emission or opacity monitoring system, stack and duct engineering diagrams showing the dimensions and location of fans, turning vanes, air preheaters, monitor components, probes, reference method sampling ports, and other equipment that affects the monitoring system location, performance, or quality control checks.
