
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart E - Alternative Monitoring Systems
###### § 75.48 Petition for an alternative monitoring system.

(a) The designated representative shall submit the following information in the application for certification or recertification of an alternative monitoring system.

(1) Source identification information.

(2) A description of the alternative monitoring system.

(3) Data, calculations, and results of the statistical tests, specified in § 75.41(c) of this part, including:

(i) Date and hour.

(ii) Hourly test data for the alternative monitoring system at each required operating level and fuel type. The fuel type, operating level and gross unit load shall be recorded.

(iii) Hourly test data for the continuous emissions monitoring system at each required operating level and fuel type. The fuel type, operating level and gross unit load shall be recorded.

(iv) Arithmetic mean of the alternative monitoring system measurement values, as specified in Equation 25 in § 75.41(c) of this part, of the continuous emission monitoring system values, as specified in Equation 26 in § 75.41(c) of this part, and of their differences.

(v) Standard deviation of the difference, as specified in equation A-8 in appendix A of this part.

(vi) Confidence coefficient, as specified in equation A-9 in appendix A of this part.

(vii) The bias test results as specified in § 7.6.4 in appendix A of this part.

(viii) Variance of the measured values for the alternative monitoring system and of the measured values for the continuous emission monitoring system, as specified in Equation 23 in § 75.41(c) of this part.

(ix) F-statistic, as specified in Equation 24 in § 75.41(c) of this part.

(x) Critical value of F at the 95-percent confidence level with n-1 degrees of freedom.

(xi) Coefficient of correlation, r, as specified in Equation 27 in § 75.41(c) of this part.

(4) Data plots, specified in §§ 75.41(a)(9) and 75.41(c)(2)(i) of this part.

(5) Results of monitor reliability analysis.

(6) Results of monitor accessibility analysis.

(7) Results of monitor timeliness analysis.

(8) A detailed description of the process used to collect data, including location and method of ensuring an accurate assessment of operating hourly conditions on a real-time basis.

(9) A detailed description of the operation, maintenance, and quality assurance procedures for the alternative monitoring system as required in appendix B of this part.

(10) A description of methods used to calculate heat input or diluent gas concentration, if applicable.

(11) Results of tests and measurements (including the results of all reference method field test sheets, charts, laboratory analyses, example calculations, or other data as appropriate) necessary to substantiate that the alternative monitoring system is equivalent in performance to an appropriate, certified operating continuous emission monitoring system.

(b) [Reserved]
