
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### ยง 75.53 Monitoring plan.
####### General provisions.

(a)(1) The provisions of paragraphs (e) and (f) of this section shall be met through December 31, 2008. The owner or operator shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (e), and (f) of this section through December 31, 2008, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (g) of this section. On and after January 1, 2009, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (g), and (h) of this section only. In addition, the provisions in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section that support a regulatory option provided in another section of this part must be followed if the regulatory option is used prior to January 1, 2009.

(2) The owner or operator of an affected unit shall prepare and maintain a monitoring plan. Except as provided in paragraphs (f) or (h) of this section (as applicable), a monitoring plan shall contain sufficient information on the continuous emission or opacity monitoring systems, excepted methodology under ยง 75.19, or excepted monitoring systems under appendix D or E to this part and the use of data derived from these systems to demonstrate that all unit SOemissions, NOemissions, COemissions, and opacity are monitored and reported.

(b) Whenever the owner or operator makes a replacement, modification, or change in the certified CEMS, continuous opacity monitoring system, excepted methodology under ยง 75.19, excepted monitoring system under appendix D or E to this part, or alternative monitoring system under subpart E of this part, including a change in the automated data acquisition and handling system or in the flue gas handling system, that affects information reported in the monitoring plan (e.g., a change to a serial number for a component of a monitoring system), then the owner or operator shall update the monitoring plan, by the applicable deadline specified in ยง 75.62 or elsewhere in this part.

(c)-(d) [Reserved]
