
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### ยง 75.53 Monitoring plan.
####### Electronic.

(1)(i) The facility ORISPL number developed by the Department of Energy and used in the National Allowance Data Base (or equivalent facility ID number assigned by EPA, if the facility does not have an ORISPL number). Also provide the following information for each unit and (as applicable) for each common stack and/or pipe, and each multiple stack and/or pipe involved in the monitoring plan:

(A) A representation of the exhaust configuration for the units in the monitoring plan. On and after April 27, 2011, provide the activation date and deactivation date (if applicable) of the configuration. Provide the ID number of each unit and assign a unique ID number to each common stack, common pipe multiple stack and/or multiple pipe associated with the unit(s) represented in the monitoring plan. For common and multiple stacks and/or pipes, provide the activation date and deactivation date (if applicable) of each stack and/or pipe;

(B) Identification of the monitoring system location(s) (e.g., at the unit-level, on the common stack, at each multiple stack, etc.). Provide an indicator ("flag") if the monitoring location is at a bypass stack or in the ductwork (breeching);

(C) The stack exit height (ft) above ground level and ground level elevation above sea level, and the inside cross-sectional area (ft) at the flue exit and at the flow monitoring location (for units with flow monitors, only). Also use appropriate codes to indicate the material(s) of construction and the shape(s) of the stack or duct cross-section(s) at the flue exit and (if applicable) at the flow monitor location. On and after April 27, 2011, provide the activation date and deactivation date (if applicable) for the information in this paragraph (g)(1)(i)(C);

(D) The type(s) of fuel(s) fired by each unit. Indicate the start and (if applicable) end date of combustion for each type of fuel, and whether the fuel is the primary, secondary, emergency, or startup fuel;

(E) The type(s) of emission controls that are used to reduce SO, NO, and particulate emissions from each unit. Also provide the installation date, optimization date, and retirement date (if applicable) of the emission controls, and indicate whether the controls are an original installation;

(F) Maximum hourly heat input capacity of each unit. On and after April 27, 2011, provide the activation date and deactivation date (if applicable) for this parameter; and

(G) A non-load based unit indicator (if applicable) for units that do not produce electrical or thermal output.

(ii) For each monitored parameter (e.g., SO, NO, flow, etc.) at each monitoring location, specify the monitoring methodology and the missing data approach for the parameter. If the unmonitored bypass stack approach is used for a particular parameter, indicate this by means of an appropriate code. Provide the activation date/hour, and deactivation date/hour (if applicable) for each monitoring methodology and each missing data approach.
