
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### ยง 75.53 Monitoring plan.
####### 7

() Indicate the component activation date/hour and deactivation date/hour (as applicable).

(iv) Explicit formulas, using the component and system identification codes for the primary monitoring system, and containing all constants and factors required to derive the required mass emissions, emission rates, heat input rates, etc. from the hourly data recorded by the monitoring systems. Formulas using the system and component ID codes for backup monitoring systems are required only if different formulas for the same parameter are used for the primary and backup monitoring systems (e.g., if the primary system measures pollutant concentration on a different moisture basis from the backup system). Provide the equation number or other appropriate code for each emissions formula (e.g., use code F-1 if Equation F-1 in appendix F to this part is used to calculate SOmass emissions). Also identify each emissions formula with a unique three character alphanumeric code. The formula effective start date/hour and inactivation date/hour (as applicable) shall be included for each formula. The owner or operator of a unit for which the optional low mass emissions excepted methodology in ยง 75.19 is being used is not required to report such formulas.

(v) For each parameter monitored with CEMS, provide the following information:

(A) Measurement scale (high or low);

(B) Maximum potential value (and method of calculation). If NOemission rate in lb/mmBtu is monitored, calculate and provide the maximum potential NOemission rate in addition to the maximum potential NOconcentration;

(C) Maximum expected value (if applicable) and method of calculation;

(D) Span value(s) and full-scale measurement range(s);

(E) Daily calibration units of measure;

(F) Effective date/hour, and (if applicable) inactivation date/hour of each span value. On and after April 27, 2011, provide the activation date and deactivation date (if applicable) for the measurement scale and dual span information in paragraphs (g)(1)(v)(A), (g)(1)(v)(G), and (g)(1)(v)(H) of this section;

(G) An indication of whether dual spans are required. If two span values are required, then, on and after April 27, 2011, indicate whether an autoranging analyzer is used to represent the two measurement scales; and

(H) The default high range value (if applicable) and the maximum allowable low-range value for this option.

(vi) If the monitoring system or excepted methodology provides for the use of a constant, assumed, or default value for a parameter under specific circumstances, then include the following information for each such value for each parameter:

(A) Identification of the parameter;

(B) Default, maximum, minimum, or constant value, and units of measure for the value;

(C) Purpose of the value;

(D) Indicator of use, i.e., during controlled hours, uncontrolled hours, or all operating hours;

(E) Type of fuel;

(F) Source of the value;

(G) Value effective date and hour;

(H) Date and hour that the value is no longer effective (if applicable);

(I) For units using the excepted methodology under ยง 75.19, the applicable SOemission factor; and

(J) On and after April 27, 2011, group identification code.

(vii) Unless otherwise specified in section 6.5.2.1 of appendix A to this part, for each unit or common stack on which hardware CEMS are installed:
