
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### ยง 75.58 General recordkeeping provisions for specific situations.
####### Specific SO,emission record provisions for gas-fired or oil-fired units using optional protocol in appendix D to this part.

(c)In lieu of recording the information in ยง 75.57(c), the owner or operator shall record the applicable information in this paragraph for each affected gas-fired or oil-fired unit for which the owner or operator is using the optional protocol in appendix D to this part for estimating SOmass emissions:

(1) For each hour when the unit is combusting oil:

(i) Date and hour;

(ii) Hourly average volumetric flow rate of oil, while the unit combusts oil, with the units in which oil flow is recorded (gal/hr, scf/hr, m/hr, or bbl/hr, rounded to the nearest tenth) (flag value if derived from missing data procedures);

(iii) Sulfur content of oil sample used to determine SOmass emission rate (rounded to nearest hundredth for diesel fuel or to the nearest tenth of a percent for other fuel oil) (flag value if derived from missing data procedures);

(iv) [Reserved];

(v) Mass flow rate of oil combusted each hour and method of determination (lb/hr, rounded to the nearest tenth) (flag value if derived from missing data procedures);

(vi) SOmass emission rate from oil (lb/hr, rounded to the nearest tenth);

(vii) For units using volumetric oil flowmeters, density of oil with the units in which oil density is recorded and method of determination (flag value if derived from missing data procedures);

(viii) Gross calorific value of oil used to determine heat input and method of determination (Btu/lb) (flag value if derived from missing data procedures);

(ix) Hourly heat input rate from oil, according to procedures in appendix D to this part (mmBtu/hr, to the nearest tenth);

(x) Fuel usage time for combustion of oil during the hour (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from one hundredth to one quarter of an hour, at the option of the owner or operator)) (flag to indicate multiple/single fuel types combusted);

(xi) Monitoring system identification code;

(xii) Operating load range corresponding to gross unit load (01-20);

(xiii) Type of oil combusted; and

(xiv) Heat input formula ID and SOFormula ID (required beginning January 1, 2009).

(2) For gas-fired units or oil-fired units using the optional protocol in appendix D to this part for daily manual oil sampling, when the unit is combusting oil, the highest sulfur content recorded from the most recent 30 daily oil samples (rounded to the nearest tenth of a percent).

(3) For gas-fired units or oil-fired units using the optional protocol in appendix D to this part, when either an assumed oil sulfur content or density value is used, or when as-delivered oil sampling is performed:

(i) Record the measured sulfur content, gross calorific value, and, if applicable, density from each fuel sample; and

(ii) Record and report the assumed sulfur content, gross calorific value, and, if applicable, density used to calculate SOmass emission rate or heat input rate.

(4) For each hour when the unit is combusting gaseous fuel:

(i) Date and hour.

(ii) Hourly heat input rate from gaseous fuel, according to procedures in appendix F to this part (mmBtu/hr, rounded to the nearest tenth).

(iii) Sulfur content or SOemission rate, in one of the following formats, in accordance with the appropriate procedure from appendix D to this part:

(A) Sulfur content of gas sample and method of determination (rounded to the nearest 0.1 grains/100 scf) (flag value if derived from missing data procedures); or

(B) Default SOemission rate of 0.0006 lb/mmBtu for pipeline natural gas, or calculated SOemission rate for natural gas from section 2.3.2.1.1 of appendix D to this part.

(iv) Hourly flow rate of gaseous fuel, while the unit combusts gas (100 scfh) and source of data code for gas flow rate.

(v) Gross calorific value of gaseous fuel used to determine heat input rate (Btu/100 scf) (flag value if derived from missing data procedures).

(vi) SOmass emission rate due to the combustion of gaseous fuels (lb/hr).

(vii) Fuel usage time for combustion of gaseous fuel during the hour (rounded up to the nearest fraction of an hour (in equal increments that can range from one hundredth to one quarter of an hour, at the option of the owner or operator)) (flag to indicate multiple/single fuel types combusted).

(viii) Monitoring system identification code.

(ix) Operating load range corresponding to gross unit load (01-20).

(x) Type of gas combusted; and

(xi) Heat input formula ID and SOFormula ID (required beginning January 1, 2009).

(5) For each oil sample or sample of diesel fuel:

(i) Date of sampling;

(ii) Sulfur content (percent, rounded to either the nearest hundredth, or nearest ten-thousandth for diesel fuels and to the nearest tenth for other fuel oil);

(iii) Gross calorific value (Btu/lb); and

(iv) Density or specific gravity, if required to convert volume to mass.

(6) For each sample of gaseous fuel for sulfur content:

(i) Date of sampling; and

(ii) Sulfur content (grains/100 scf, rounded to the nearest tenth).

(7) For each sample of gaseous fuel for gross calorific value:

(i) Date of sampling; and

(ii) Gross calorific value (Btu/100 scf).

(8) For each oil sample or sample of gaseous fuel:

(i) Type of oil or gas; and

(ii) Type of sulfur sampling (using codes in tables D-4 and D-5 of appendix D to this part) and value used in calculations, and type of GCV or density sampling (using codes in tables D-4 and D-5 of appendix D to this part).
