
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart F - Recordkeeping Requirements
###### ยง 75.59 Certification, quality assurance, and quality control record provisions.
####### i.e.

(D) Tabulated, final, corrected reference method run data (, the actual values used in the relative accuracy calculations), along with the equations used to convert the raw data to the final values and example calculations to demonstrate how the test data were reduced.

(iv) For relative accuracy tests for flow monitors:

(A) The raw flow rate reference method data, from Reference Method 2 (or its allowable alternatives) under appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, including auxiliary moisture data (often in the form of handwritten data sheets), i.e., the data under paragraphs (a)(7)(ii)(A) through (a)(7)(ii)(T), paragraphs (a)(7)(iii)(A) through (a)(7)(iii)(M), and, if applicable, paragraphs (a)(7)(v)(A) through (a)(7)(v)(O) of this section; and

(B) The tabulated, final volumetric flow rate values used in the relative accuracy calculations (determined from the flow rate reference method data and other necessary measurements, such as moisture, stack temperature and pressure), along with the equations used to convert the raw data to the final values and example calculations to demonstrate how the test data were reduced.

(v) Calibration gas certificates for the gases used in the linearity, calibration error, and cycle time tests and for the calibration gases used to quality assure the gas monitor reference method data during the relative accuracy test audit.

(vi) Laboratory calibrations of the source sampling equipment.

(vii) A copy of the test protocol used for the CEMS certifications or recertifications, including narrative that explains any testing abnormalities, problematic sampling, and analytical conditions that required a change to the test protocol, and/or solutions to technical problems encountered during the testing program.

(viii) Diagrams illustrating test locations and sample point locations (to verify that locations are consistent with information in the monitoring plan). Include a discussion of any special traversing or measurement scheme. The discussion shall also confirm that sample points satisfy applicable acceptance criteria.

(ix) Names of key personnel involved in the test program, including test team members, plant contacts, agency representatives and test observers on site.

(x) For testing involving use of EPA Protocol gases, the owner or operator shall record in electronic and hardcopy format the following information, as applicable:

(A) On and after September 26, 2011, for each gas monitor, for both low and high measurement ranges, record the following information for the mid-level or high-level EPA Protocol gas (as applicable) that is used for daily calibration error tests, and the low-, mid-, and high-level gases used for quarterly linearity checks. For O, if purified air is used as the high-level gas for daily calibrations or linearity checks, record the following information for the low- and mid-level EPA Protocol gas used for linearity checks, instead:
