
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.60 General provisions.
####### Confidentiality of data.

(c)The following provisions shall govern the confidentiality of information submitted under this part.

(1) All emission data reported in quarterly reports under ยง 75.64 shall remain public information.

(2) For information submitted under this part other than emission data submitted in quarterly reports, the designated representative must assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission for any information he or she wishes to have treated as confidential business information (CBI) under subpart B of part 2 of this chapter. Failure to assert a claim of confidentiality at the time of submission may result in disclosure of the information by EPA without further notice to the designated representative.

(3) Any claim of confidentiality for information submitted in quarterly reports under ยง 75.64 must include substantiation of the claim. Failure to provide substantiation may result in disclosure of the information by EPA without further notice.

(4) As provided under subpart B of part 2 of this chapter, EPA may review information submitted to determine whether it is entitled to confidential treatment even when confidentiality claims are initially received. The EPA will contact the designated representative as part of such a review process.
