
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.61 Notifications.
####### Initial certification and recertification test notifications.

(1)The owner or operator or designated representative for an affected unit shall submit written notification of initial certification tests and revised test dates as specified in ยง 75.20 for continuous emission monitoring systems, for alternative monitoring systems under subpart E of this part, or for excepted monitoring systems under appendix E to this part, except as provided in paragraphs (a)(1)(iii), (a)(1)(iv) and (a)(4) of this section. The owner or operator shall also provide written notification of testing performed under ยง 75.19(c)(1)(iv)(A) to establish fuel-and-unit-specific NOemission rates for low mass emissions units. Such notifications are not required, however, for initial certifications and recertifications of excepted monitoring systems under appendix D to this part.

(i) Notification of initial certification testing and full recertification. Initial certification test notifications and notifications of full recertification testing under ยง 75.20(b)(2) shall be submitted not later than 21 days prior to the first scheduled day of certification or recertification testing. In emergency situations when full recertification testing is required following an uncontrollable failure of equipment that results in lost data, notice shall be sufficient if provided within 2 business days following the date when testing is scheduled. Testing may be performed on a date other than that already provided in a notice under this subparagraph as long as notice of the new date is provided either in writing or by telephone or other means at least 7 days prior to the original scheduled test date or the revised test date, whichever is earlier.
