
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### § 75.64 Quarterly reports.
####### Electronic submission.

(a)The designated representative for an affected unit shall electronically report the data and information in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section to the Administrator quarterly, beginning with the data from the earlier of the calendar quarter corresponding to the date of provisional certification or the calendar quarter corresponding to the relevant deadline for initial certification in § 75.4(a), (b), or (c). The initial quarterly report shall contain hourly data beginning with the hour of provisional certification or the hour corresponding to the relevant certification deadline, whichever is earlier. For an affected unit subject to § 75.4(d) that is shutdown on the relevant compliance date in § 75.4(a) or has been placed in long-term cold storage (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter), quarterly reports are not required. In such cases, the owner or operator shall submit quarterly reports for the unit beginning with the data from the quarter in which the unit recommences commercial operation (where the initial quarterly report contains hourly data beginning with the first hour of recommenced commercial operation of the unit). For units placed into long-term cold storage during a reporting quarter, the exemption from submitting quarterly reports begins with the calendar quarter following the date that the unit is placed into long-term cold storage. For any provisionally-certified monitoring system, § 75.20(a)(3) shall apply for initial certifications, and § 75.20(b)(5) shall apply for recertifications. Each electronic report must be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter. Prior to January 1, 2008, each electronic report shall include for each affected unit (or group of units using a common stack), the information provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(8) through (a)(15) of this section. During the time period of January 1, 2008 to January 1, 2009, each electronic report shall include, either the information provided in paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), and (a)(8) through (a)(15) of this section or the information provided in paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(15) of this section. On and after January 1, 2009, the owner or operator shall meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(3) through (a)(15) of this section only. Each electronic report shall also include the date of report generation.

(1) Facility information:

(i) Identification, including:

(A) Facility/ORISPL number;

(B) Calendar quarter and year for the data contained in the report; and

(C) Version of the electronic data reporting format used for the report.

(ii) Location, including:

(A) Plant name and facility ID;

(B) EPA AIRS facility system ID;

(C) State facility ID;

(D) Source category/type;

(E) Primary SIC code;

(F) State postal abbreviation;

(G) County code; and

(H) Latitude and longitude.

(2) The information and hourly data required in § 75.53 and §§ 75.57 through 75.59, excluding the following:

(i) Descriptions of adjustments, corrective action, and maintenance;

(ii) Information which is incompatible with electronic reporting (e.g., field data sheets, lab analyses, quality control plan);

(iii) Opacity data listed in or § 75.57(f), and in § 75.59(a)(8);

(iv) For units with SOor NOadd-on emission controls that do not elect to use the approved site-specific parametric monitoring procedures for calculation of substitute data, the information in § 75.58(b)(3);

(v) [Reserved]

(vi) Information required by § 75.57(h) concerning the causes of any missing data periods and the actions taken to cure such causes;

(vii) Hardcopy monitoring plan information required by § 75.53 and hardcopy test data and results required by § 75.59;

(viii) Records of flow monitor and moisture monitoring system polynomial equations, coefficients, or "K" factors required by § 75.59(a)(5)(vi) or § 75.59(a)(5)(vii);

(ix) Daily fuel sampling information required by § 75.58(c)(3)(i) for units using assumed values under appendix D;

(x) Information required by §§ 75.59(b)(1)(vi), (vii), (viii), (ix), and (xiii), and (b)(2)(iii) and (iv) concerning fuel flowmeter accuracy tests and transmitter/transducer accuracy tests;

(xi) Stratification test results required as part of the RATA supplementary records under § 75.59(a)(7);

(xii) Data and results of RATAs that are aborted or invalidated due to problems with the reference method or operational problems with the unit and data and results of linearity checks that are aborted or invalidated due to problems unrelated to monitor performance; and

(xiii) Supplementary RATA information required under § 75.59(a)(7), except that:
