
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### § 75.64 Quarterly reports.
####### i.e.

(A) The applicable data elements under § 75.59(a)(7)(ii)(A) through (T) and under § 75.59(a)(7)(iii)(A) through (M) shall be reported for flow RATAs at circular or rectangular stacks (or ducts) in which angular compensation for yaw and/or pitch angles is used (, Method 2F or 2G in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter), with or without wall effects adjustments;

(B) The applicable data elements under § 75.59(a)(7)(ii)(A) through (T) and under § 75.59(a)(7)(iii)(A) through (M) shall be reported for any flow RATA run at a circular stack in which Method 2 in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter is used and a wall effects adjustment factor is determined by direct measurement;

(C) The data under § 75.59(a)(7)(ii)(T) shall be reported for all flow RATAs at circular stacks in which Method 2 in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter is used and a default wall effects adjustment factor is applied; and

(D) The data under § 75.59(a)(7)(ix)(A) through (F) shall be reported for all flow RATAs at rectangular stacks or ducts in which Method 2 in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter is used and a wall effects adjustment factor is applied; and

(xiii) The certification required by section 6.1.2(b) of appendix A to this part and recorded under § 75.57(a)(7).

(8) Tons (rounded to the nearest tenth) of SOemitted during the quarter and cumulative SOemissions for the calendar year.

(9) Average NOemission rate (lb/mmBtu, rounded to the nearest thousandth) during the quarter and cumulative NOemission rate for the calendar year.

(10) Tons of COemitted during quarter and cumulative COemissions for calendar year.

(11) Total heat input (mmBtu) for quarter and cumulative heat input for calendar year.

(12) Unit or stack or common pipe header operating hours for quarter and cumulative unit or stack or common pipe header operating hours for calendar year.

(13) For low mass emissions units for which the owner or operator is using the optional low mass emissions methodology in § 75.19(c) to calculate NOmass emissions, the designated representative must also report tons (rounded to the nearest tenth) of NOemitted during the quarter and cumulative NOmass emissions for the calendar year.

(14) For low mass emissions units using the optional long term fuel flow methodology under § 75.19(c), for each quarter report the long term fuel flow for each fuel according to § 75.58(f)(2).

(15) For units using the optional fuel flow to load procedure in section 2.1.7 of appendix D to this part, report both the fuel flow-to-load baseline data and the results of the fuel flow-to-load test each quarter.

(b) The designated representative shall affirm that the component/system identification codes and formulas in the quarterly electronic reports, submitted to the Administrator pursuant to § 75.53, represent current operating conditions.
