
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### § 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### camdpetitions@epa.gov,
######### Petitions.

(h)(1) The designated representative of an affected unit that is subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation may submit a petition to the Administrator requesting an alternative to any requirement of this subpart. Such a petition shall meet the requirements of § 75.66 and any additional requirements established by an applicable State or federal NOmass emission reduction program that adopts the requirements of this subpart. Use of an alternative to any requirement of this subpart is in accordance with this subpart and with such State or federal NOmass emission reduction program only to the extent that the petition is approved by the Administrator, in consultation with the permitting authority.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (h)(1) of this section, petitions requesting an alternative to a requirement concerning any additional CEMS required solely to meet the common stack provisions of § 75.72 shall be submitted to the permitting authority and the Administrator and shall be governed by paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section. Such a petition shall meet the requirements of § 75.66 and any additional requirements established by an applicable State or federal NOmass emission reduction program that adopts the requirements of this subpart.

(3)(i) The designated representative of an affected unit that is not subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation may submit a petition to the permitting authority and the Administrator requesting an alternative to any requirement of this subpart. Such a petition shall meet the requirements of § 75.66 and any additional requirements established by an applicable State or federal NOmass emission reduction program that adopts the requirements of this subpart.

(ii) Use of an alternative to any requirement of this subpart is in accordance with this subpart only to the extent that it is approved by the Administrator and by the permitting authority if required by an applicable State or federal NOmass emission reduction program that adopts the requirements of this subpart.
