
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### camdpetitions@epa.gov,
######### Units using a NO,concentration monitoring system and a flow monitoring system to determine NO,mass.

(e)The owner or operator may use a NOconcentration monitoring system and a flow monitoring system to determine NOmass emissions for the cases described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section and in paragraph (d)(1) or paragraph (d)(2) of this section (in place of a NO-diluent continuous emissions monitoring system and a flow monitoring system). However, this option may not be used for the case described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. When using this approach, calculate NOmass according to sections 8.2 and 8.3 in appendix F to this part. In addition, if an applicable State or federal NOmass reduction program requires determination of a unit's heat input, the owner or operator must either:

(1) Install, certify, operate, and maintain a COor Odiluent monitor in the same location as each flow monitoring system. In addition, the owner or operator must provide heat input rate values for each unit utilizing a common stack. The owner or operator may either:

(i) Apportion heat input rate from the common stack to each unit according to ยง 75.16(e)(3), where all units utilizing the common stack are affected units, or

(ii) Measure heat input from each affected unit, using a flow monitor and a COor Odiluent monitor in the duct from each affected unit; or

(2) For units that are eligible to use appendix D to this part, use the procedures in appendix D to this part to determine heat input rate for the unit. However, the use of a fuel flowmeter in a common pipe header and the provisions of sections 2.1.2.1 and 2.1.2.2 of appendix D of this part are not applicable to any unit that is using the provisions of this subpart to monitor, record, and report NOmass emissions under a State or federal NOmass emission reduction program and that shares a common pipe with a nonaffected unit.

(f) [Reserved]
