
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### § 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### § 75.73 Recordkeeping and reporting.
######## General recordkeeping provisions.

(a)The owner or operator of any affected unit shall maintain for each affected unit and each non-affected unit under § 75.72(b)(2)(ii) a file of all measurements, data, reports, and other information required by this part at the source in a form suitable for inspection for at least three (3) years from the date of each record. Except for the certification data required in § 75.57(a)(4) and the initial submission of the monitoring plan required in § 75.57(a)(5), the data shall be collected beginning with the earlier of the date of provisional certification or the compliance deadline in § 75.70(b). The certification data required in § 75.57(a)(4) shall be collected beginning with the date of the first certification test performed. The file shall contain the following information:

(1) The information required in §§ 75.57(a)(2), (a)(4), (a)(5), (a)(6), (b), (c)(2), (d), (g), and (h).

(2) The information required in §§ 75.58(b)(2) or (b)(3) (for units with add-on NOemission controls), as applicable, (d) (as applicable for units using Appendix E to this part), and (f) (as applicable for units using the low mass emissions unit provisions of § 75.19).

(3) For each hour when the unit is operating, NOmass emissions, calculated in accordance with section 8.1 of appendix F to this part.

(4) During the second and third calendar quarters, cumulative ozone season heat input and cumulative ozone season operating hours.

(5) Heat input and NOmethodologies for the hour.
