
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### § 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### § 75.73 Recordkeeping and reporting.
######## Contents of the monitoring plan for units not subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation.

(3)Prior to January 1, 2009, each monitoring plan shall contain the information in § 75.53(e)(1) or § 75.53(g)(1) in electronic format and the information in § 75.53(e)(2) or § 75.53(g)(2) in hardcopy format. On and after January 1, 2009, each monitoring plan shall contain the information in § 75.53(g)(1) in electronic format and the information in § 75.53(g)(2) in hardcopy format, only. In addition, to the extent applicable, prior to January 1, 2009, each monitoring plan shall contain the information in § 75.53(f)(1)(i), (f)(2)(i), and (f)(4) or § 75.53(h)(1)(i), and (h)(2)(i) in electronic format and the information in § 75.53(f)(1)(ii) and (f)(2)(ii) or § 75.53(h)(1)(ii) and (h)(2)(ii) in hardcopy format. On and after January 1, 2009, each monitoring plan shall contain the information in § 75.53(h)(1)(i), and (h)(2)(i) in electronic format and the information in § 75.53(h)(1)(ii) and (h)(2)(ii) in hardcopy format, only. For units using the low mass emissions excepted methodology under § 75.19, prior to January 1, 2009, the monitoring plan shall include the additional information in § 75.53(f)(5)(i) and (f)(5)(ii) or § 75.53(h)(4)(i) and (h)(4)(ii). On and after January 1, 2009, for units using the low mass emissions excepted methodology under § 75.19 the monitoring plan shall include the additional information in § 75.53(h)(4)(i) and (h)(4)(ii), only. Prior to January 1, 2008, the monitoring plan shall also identify, in electronic format, the reporting schedule for the affected unit (ozone season or quarterly), and the beginning and end dates for the reporting schedule. The monitoring plan also shall include a seasonal controls indicator, and an ozone season fuel-switching flag.
