
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### ยง 75.73 Recordkeeping and reporting.
######## Quarterly reports,Electronic submission.

(f)-(1)The designated representative for an affected unit shall electronically report the data and information in this paragraph (f)(1) and in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section to the Administrator quarterly, unless the unit has been placed in long-term cold storage (as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter). For units placed into long-term cold storage during a reporting quarter, the exemption from submitting quarterly reports begins with the calendar quarter following the date that the unit is placed into long-term cold storage. In such cases, the owner or operator shall submit quarterly reports for the unit beginning with the data from the quarter in which the unit recommences operation (where the initial quarterly report contains hourly data beginning with the first hour of recommenced operation of the unit). Each electronic report must be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days following the end of each calendar quarter. Except as otherwise provided in ยง 75.64(a)(4) and (a)(5), each electronic report shall include the information provided in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (1)(vi) of this section, and shall also include the date of report generation. Prior to January 1, 2009, each report shall include the facility information provided in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) and (B) of this section, for each affected unit or group of units monitored at a common stack. On and after January 1, 2009, only the facility identification information provided in paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section is required.

(i) Facility information:

(A) Identification, including:
