
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### ยง 75.73 Recordkeeping and reporting.
######## 4

() The data under ยง 75.59(a)(7)(ix)(A) through (F) shall be reported for all flow RATAs at rectangular stacks or ducts in which Method 2 in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter is used and a wall effects adjustment factor is applied.

(iii) Average NOemission rate (lb/mmBtu, rounded to the nearest thousandth) during the quarter and cumulative NOemission rate for the calendar year.

(iv) Tons of NOemitted during quarter, cumulative tons of NOemitted during the year, and, during the second and third calendar quarters, cumulative tons of NOemitted during the ozone season.

(v) During the second and third calendar quarters, cumulative heat input for the ozone season.

(vi) Unit or stack or common pipe header operating hours for quarter, cumulative unit, stack or common pipe header operating hours for calendar year, and, during the second and third calendar quarters, cumulative operating hours during the ozone season.

(vii) Reporting period heat input.

(viii) New reporting frequency and begin date of the new reporting frequency (if applicable).

(2) The designated representative shall certify that the component and system identification codes and formulas in the quarterly electronic reports submitted to the Administrator pursuant to paragraph (e) of this section represent current operating conditions.
