
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### ยง 75.74 Annual and ozone season monitoring and reporting requirements.
######## i.e.

(ii) For each required CEMS (, for each NOconcentration monitoring system, each NO-diluent monitoring system, each flow rate monitoring system, each moisture monitoring system and each diluent gas CEMS used exclusively for heat input determination), a relative accuracy test audit (RATA) shall be performed and passed in the first or second calendar quarter, but no later than April 30.

(A) Conduct each RATA in accordance with the applicable procedures in sections 6.5 through 6.5.10 of appendix A to this part, except that the data validation procedures in sections 6.5(f)(1) through (f)(6) do not apply, and, for flow rate monitoring systems, the required RATA load level(s) (or operating level(s)) shall be as specified in this paragraph.

(B) Each RATA shall be done "hands-off," as described in section 2.3.2 (c) of appendix B to this part. The provisions in section 2.3.1.4 of appendix B to this part, pertaining to the number of allowable RATA attempts, shall apply.

(C) For flow rate monitoring systems installed on peaking units or bypass stacks and for flow monitors exempted from multiple-level RATA testing under section 6.5.2(e) of appendix A to this part, a single-load (or single-level) RATA is required. For all other flow rate monitoring systems, a 2-load (or 2-level) RATA is required at the two most frequently-used load or operating levels (as defined under section 6.5.2.1 of appendix A to this part), with the following exceptions. Except for flow monitors exempted from 3-level RATA testing under section 6.5.2(e) of appendix A to this part, a 3-load flow RATA is required at least once every five years and is also required if the flow monitor polynomial coefficients or K factor(s) are changed prior to conducting the flow RATA required under this paragraph.

(D) A bias test of each required NOconcentration monitoring system, each NO-diluent monitoring system and each flow rate monitoring system shall be performed in accordance with section 7.6 of appendix A to this part. If the bias test is failed, a bias adjustment factor (BAF) shall be calculated for the monitoring system, as described in section 7.6.5 of appendix A to this part and shall be applied to the subsequent data recorded by the CEMS.

(E) In the time period extending from the hour of completion of the required RATA through April 30, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain the CEMS by performing, at a minimum, the following activities:
