
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### ยง 75.74 Annual and ozone season monitoring and reporting requirements.
######## i.e.

(i) For each required gas monitor (, for each NOpollutant concentration monitor and each diluent gas (COor O) monitor, including COand Omonitors used exclusively for heat input determination and Omonitors used for moisture determination), a linearity check shall be performed and passed in the second calendar quarter no later than April 30.

(A) Conduct each linearity check in accordance with the general procedures in section 6.2 of appendix A to this part, except that the data validation procedures in sections 6.2(a) through (f) of appendix A do not apply.

(B) Each linearity check shall be done "hands-off," as described in section 2.2.3(c) of appendix B to this part.

(C) In the time period extending from the date and hour in which the linearity check is passed through April 30, the owner or operator shall operate and maintain the CEMS and shall perform daily calibration error tests of the CEMS in accordance with section 2.1 of appendix B to this part. When a calibration error test is failed, as described in section 2.1.4 of appendix B to this part, corrective actions shall be taken. The additional calibration error test provisions of section 2.1.3 of appendix B to this part shall be followed.

(D) If the linearity check is not completed by April 30, data validation shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(E) of this section.
