
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### ยง 75.74 Annual and ozone season monitoring and reporting requirements.
######## Quality assurance requirements within the ozone season.

(3)The provisions of this paragraph apply to each ozone season. The owner or operator shall, at a minimum, perform the following quality assurance testing during the ozone season, i.e. in the time period extending from May 1 through September 30 of each calendar year:

(i) Daily calibration error tests and (if applicable) interference checks of each CEMS required by this subpart shall be performed in accordance with sections 2.1.1 and 2.1.2 of appendix B to this part. The applicable provisions in sections 2.1.3, 2.1.4 and 2.1.5 of appendix B to this part, pertaining, respectively, to additional calibration error tests and calibration adjustments, data validation, and quality assurance of data with respect to daily assessments, shall also apply.

(ii) For each gas monitor required by this subpart, linearity checks shall be performed in the second and third calendar quarters, as follows:

(A) For the second calendar quarter, the pre-ozone season linearity check required under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section shall be performed by April 30.

(B) For the third calendar quarter, a linearity check shall be performed and passed no later than July 30.

(C) Conduct each linearity check in accordance with the general procedures in section 6.2 of appendix A to this part, except that the data validation procedures in sections 6.2(a) through (f) of appendix A do not apply.

(D) Each linearity check shall be done "hands-off," as described in section 2.2.3(c) of appendix B to this part.
