
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### § 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### § 75.74 Annual and ozone season monitoring and reporting requirements.
######## 3

(10) Units may qualify to use the low mass emissions excepted monitoring methodology in § 75.19 on an ozone season basis. In order to be allowed to use this methodology, a unit may not emit more than 50 tons of NOper ozone season, as provided in § 75.19(a)(1)(i)(A)(). If any low mass emissions unit fails to provide a demonstration that its ozone season NOmass emissions are less than or equal to 50 tons, then the unit is disqualified from using the methodology. The owner or operator must install and certify any equipment needed to ensure that the unit is monitored using an acceptable methodology by December 31 of the following year.

(11) Units may qualify to use the optional NOmass emissions estimation protocol for gas-fired and oil-fired peaking units in appendix E to this part on an ozone season basis. In order to be allowed to use this methodology, the unit must meet the definition of "peaking unit" in § 72.2 of this chapter, except that the words "year", "calendar year" and "calendar years" in that definition shall be replaced by the words "ozone season", "ozone season", and "ozone seasons", respectively. In addition, in the definition of the term "capacity factor" in § 72.2 of this chapter, the word "annual" shall be replaced by the words "ozone season" and the number "8,760" shall be replaced by the number "3,672".
