
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Subpart G - Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 75.68 Temporary modifications to otherwise applicable quality-assurance requirements during the COVID-19 national emergency.
####### ยง 75.74 Annual and ozone season monitoring and reporting requirements.
######## 2

() A linearity check is performed and passed within that conditional data validation period.

(iii) For each flow monitoring system required by this subpart, except for flow monitors installed on non-load-based units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, flow-to-load ratio tests are required in the second and third calendar quarters, in accordance with section 2.2.5 of appendix B to this part. If the flow-to-load ratio test for the second calendar quarter is failed, the owner or operator shall follow the procedures in section 2.2.5(c)(8) of appendix B to this part. If the flow-to-load ratio test for the third calendar quarter is failed, data from the flow monitor shall be considered invalid at the beginning of the next ozone season unless, prior to May 1 of the next calendar year, the owner or operator has either successfully implemented Option 1 in section 2.2.5.1 of appendix B to this part or Option 2 in section 2.2.5.2 of appendix B to this part, or unless a flow RATA has been performed and passed in accordance with paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(iv) For each differential pressure-type flow monitor used to meet the requirements of this subpart, quarterly leak checks are required in the second and third calendar quarters, in accordance with section 2.2.2 of appendix B to this part. For the second calendar quarter of the year, only the unit or stack operating hours in the months of May and June shall be used to determine whether the second calendar quarter is a QA operating quarter (as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter). Data validation for quarterly flow monitor leak checks shall be done in accordance with section 2.2.3(g) of appendix B to this part. If the leak check for the third calendar quarter is failed and a subsequent leak check is not passed by the end of the ozone season, then data from the flow monitor shall be considered invalid at the beginning of the next ozone season unless a leak check is passed prior to May 1 of the next calendar year.

(v) A fuel flow-to-load ratio test in section 2.1.7 of appendix D to this part shall be performed in the second and third calendar quarters if, for a unit using a fuel flowmeter to determine heat input under this subpart, the owner or operator has elected to use the fuel flow-to-load ratio test to extend the deadline for the next fuel flowmeter accuracy test. Automatic deadline extensions may be claimed for the two calendar quarters outside the ozone season (the first and fourth calendar quarters), since a fuel flow-to-load ratio test is not required in those quarters. If a fuel flow-to-load ratio test is failed, follow the applicable procedures and data validation provisions in section 2.1.7.4 of appendix D to this part. If the fuel flow-to-load ratio test for the third calendar quarter is failed, data from the fuel flowmeter shall be considered invalid at the beginning of the next ozone season unless the requirements of section 2.1.7.4 of appendix D to this part have been fully met prior to May 1 of the next calendar year.

(vi)-(viii) [Reserved]

(ix) If, for any required CEMS, diagnostic linearity checks or RATAs other than those required by this section are performed during the ozone season, use the applicable data validation procedures in section 2.2.3 (for linearity checks) or 2.3.2 (for RATAs) of appendix B to this part.

(x) If any required CEMS is recertified within the ozone season, use the data validation provisions in ยง 75.20(b)(3) and, if applicable, paragraphs (c)(3)(xi) and (c)(3)(xii) of this section.
