
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### e.g.,

(a) Make an initial determination of the maximum expected concentration (MEC) of NOduring normal operation for affected units with add-on NOcontrols of any kind (steam injection, water injection, SCR, or SNCR) and for turbines that use dry low-NOtechnology. Determine a separate MEC value for each type of fuel (or blend) combusted in the unit, except for fuels that are only used for unit startup and/or flame stabilization. Calculate the MEC of NOusing Equation A-2, if applicable, inserting the maximum potential concentration, as determined using the procedures in section 2.1.2.1 of this appendix. Where Equation A-2 is not applicable, set the MEC either by: (1) measuring the NOconcentration using the testing procedures in this section; (2) using historical CEM data over the previous 720 (or more) quality-assured monitor operating hours; or (3) if the unit has add-on NOcontrols or uses dry low NOtechnology, and has a federally-enforceable permit limit for NOconcentration, the permit limit may be used as the MEC. Include in the monitoring plan for the unit each MEC value and the method by which the MEC was determined. Note that each initial MEC value is subject to periodic review under section 2.1.2.5 of this appendix. If an MEC value is found to be either inappropriately high or low, the MEC shall be adjusted in accordance with section 2.1.2.5, and corresponding span and range adjustments shall be made, if necessary.

(b) If NOemission testing is used to determine the MEC value(s), the MEC for each type of fuel (or blend) shall be based upon testing at minimum load, normal load, and maximum load. At least three tests of 20 minutes (minimum) duration, using at least three traverse points, shall be performed at each load, using Method 7E from appendix A to part 60 of this chapter (Note: Method 20 from appendix A to part 60 may be used for gas turbines instead of Method 7E). The test must be performed at a time when all NOcontrol devices and methods used to reduce NOemissions (if applicable) are operating properly. The testing shall be conducted downstream of all NOcontrols. The highest point NOconcentration (e.g., the highest one-minute average) recorded during any of the test runs shall be the MEC.

(c)If historical CEM data are used to determine the MEC value(s), the MEC for each type of fuel shall be based upon 720 (or more) hours of quality-assured data from the NOcomponent of a certified monitoring system representing the entire load range under stable operating conditions. For the purposes of this section, 2.1.2.2, a "certified" CEMS means a CEM system that has met the applicable certification requirements of either: this part, or part 60 of this chapter, or a State CEM program, or the source operating permit. The data base for the MEC shall not include any CEM data recorded during unit startup, shutdown, or malfunction or (for units with add-on NOcontrols or turbines using dry low NOtechnology) during any NOcontrol device malfunctions or outages. All NOcontrol devices and methods used to reduce NOemissions (if applicable) must be operating properly during each hour. The CEM data shall be collected downstream of all NOcontrols. For each type of fuel, the highest of the 720 (or more) quality-assured hourly average NOconcentrations recorded by the CEMS shall be the MEC.

(a) Determine the high span value of the NOmonitor as follows. The high span value shall be obtained by multiplying the MPC by a factor no less than 1.00 and no greater than 1.25. Round the span value upward to the next highest multiple of 100 ppm. If the NOspan concentration is &#x2264;500 ppm, the span value may either be rounded upward to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm, or to the next highest multiple of 100 ppm. The high span value shall be used to determine the concentrations of the calibration gases required for daily calibration error checks and linearity tests. Note that for certain applications, a second (low) NOspan and range may be required (see section 2.1.2.4 of this appendix).

(b) If an existing State, local, or federal requirement for span of a NOpollutant concentration monitor requires or allows the use of a span value lower than that required by this section or by section 2.1.2.4 of this appendix, the State, local, or federal span value may be used, where a satisfactory explanation is included in the monitoring plan, unless span and/or range adjustments become necessary in accordance with section 2.1.2.5 of this appendix. Span values higher than required by this section or by section 2.1.2.4 of this appendix must be approved by the Administrator.

(c) Select the full-scale range of the instrument to be consistent with section 2.1 of this appendix and to be greater than or equal to the high span value. Include the full-scale range setting and calculations of the MPC and span in the monitoring plan for the unit.

For most units, the high span value based on the MPC, as determined under section 2.1.2.3 of this appendix will suffice to measure and record NOconcentrations (unless span and/or range adjustments must be made in accordance with section 2.1.2.5 of this appendix). In some instances, however, a second (low) span value based on the MEC may be required to ensure accurate measurement of all expected and potential NOconcentrations. To determine whether two NOspans are required, proceed as follows:

(a) Compare the MEC value(s) determined in section 2.1.2.2 of this appendix to the high full-scale range value determined in section 2.1.2.3 of this appendix. If the MEC values for all fuels (or blends) are ≥20.0 percent of the high range value, the high span and range values determined under section 2.1.2.3 of this appendix are sufficient, irrespective of which fuel or blend is combusted in the unit. If any of the MEC values is <20.0 percent of the high range value, two spans (low and high) are required, one based on the MPC and the other based on the MEC.

(b) When two NOspans are required, the owner or operator may either use a single NOanalyzer with a dual range (low-and high-scales) or two separate NOanalyzers connected to a common sample probe and sample interface. Two separate NOanalyzers connected to separate probes and sample interfaces may be used if RATAs are passed on both ranges. For units with add-on NOemission controls (e.g., steam injection, water injection, SCR, or SNCR) or units equipped with dry low-NOtechnology, the owner or operator may use a low range analyzer and a "default high range value," as described in paragraph 2.1.2.4(e) of this section, in lieu of maintaining and quality assuring a high-scale range. Other monitor configurations are subject to the approval of the Administrator.

(c) The owner or operator shall designate the monitoring systems and components in the monitoring plan under § 75.53 as follows: when a single probe and sample interface are used, either designate the low and high ranges as separate NOcomponents of a single, primary NOmonitoring system; designate the low and high ranges as the NOcomponents of two separate, primary NOmonitoring systems; designate the normal range as a primary monitoring system and the other range as a non-redundant backup monitoring system; or, when a single, dual-range NOanalyzer is used, designate the low and high ranges as a single NOcomponent of a primary NOmonitoring system (if this option is selected, use a special dual-range component type code, as specified by the Administrator, to satisfy the requirements of § 75.53(e)(1)(iv)(D)). When two NOanalyzers are connected to separate probes and sample interfaces, designate the analyzers as the NOcomponents of two separate, primary NOmonitoring systems. For units with add-on NOcontrols or units equipped with dry low-NOtechnology, if the default high range value is used, designate the low range analyzer as the NOcomponent of the primary NOmonitoring system. Do not designate the default high range as a monitoring system or component. Other component and system designations are subject to approval by the Administrator. Note that the component and system designations for redundant backup monitoring systems shall be the same as for primary monitoring systems.

(d) Each monitoring system designated as primary or redundant backup shall meet the initial certification and quality assurance requirements in § 75.20(c) (for primary monitoring systems), in § 75.20(d)(1) (for redundant backup monitoring systems) and appendices A and B to this part, with one exception: relative accuracy test audits (RATAs) are required only on the normal range (for dual span units with add-on NOemission controls, the low range is considered normal). Each monitoring system designated as non-redundant backup shall meet the applicable quality assurance requirements in § 75.20(d)(2).

(e) For dual span units with add-on NOemission controls (e.g., steam injection, water injection, SCR, or SNCR), or, for units that use dry low NOtechnology, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to maintaining and quality assuring a high monitor range, use a default high range value. If this option is chosen, the owner or operator shall report a default value of 200.0 percent of the MPC for each unit operating hour in which the full-scale of the low range NOanalyzer is exceeded.

(f) The high span and range shall be determined in accordance with section 2.1.2.3 of this appendix. The low span value shall be 100.0 to 125.0 percent of the MEC, rounded up to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm (or 100 ppm, if appropriate). If more than one MEC value (as determined in section 2.1.2.2 of this appendix) is <20.0 percent of the high full-scale range value, the low span value shall be based upon whichever MEC value is closest to 20.0 percent of the high range value. The low range must be greater than or equal to the low span value, and the required calibration gases for the low range must be selected based on the low span value. However, if the default high range option in paragraph (e) of this section is selected, the full-scale of the low measurement range shall not exceed five times the MEC value (where the MEC is rounded upward to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm). For units with two NOspans, use the low range whenever NOconcentrations are expected to be consistently <20.0 percent of the high range value, i.e., when the MEC of the fuel being combusted is <20.0 percent of the high range value. When the full-scale of the low range is exceeded, the high range shall be used to measure and record the NOconcentrations; or, if applicable, the default high range value in paragraph (e) of this section shall be reported for each hour of the full-scale exceedance.

For each affected unit or common stack, the owner or operator shall make a periodic evaluation of the MPC, MEC, span, and range values for each NOmonitor (at a minimum, an annual evaluation is required) and shall make any necessary span and range adjustments, with corresponding monitoring plan updates, as described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. Span and range adjustments may be required, for example, as a result of changes in the fuel supply, changes in the manner of operation of the unit, or installation or removal of emission controls. In implementing the provisions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, note that NOdata recorded during short-term, non-representative operating conditions (e.g., a trial burn of a different type of fuel) shall be excluded from consideration. The owner or operator shall keep the results of the most recent span and range evaluation on-site, in a format suitable for inspection. Make each required span or range adjustment no later than 45 days after the end of the quarter in which the need to adjust the span or range is identified, except that up to 90 days after the end of that quarter may be taken to implement a span adjustment if the calibration gases currently being used for daily calibration error tests and linearity checks are unsuitable for use with the new span value.

(a) If the fuel supply, emission controls, or other process parameters change such that the maximum expected concentration or the maximum potential concentration changes significantly, adjust the NOpollutant concentration span(s) and (if necessary) monitor range(s) to assure the continued accuracy of the monitoring system. A "significant" change in the MPC or MEC means that the guidelines in section 2.1 of this appendix can no longer be met, as determined by either a periodic evaluation by the owner or operator or from the results of an audit by the Administrator. The owner or operator should evaluate whether any planned changes in operation of the unit or stack may affect the concentration of emissions being emitted from the unit and should plan any necessary span and range changes needed to account for these changes, so that they are made in as timely a manner as practicable to coordinate with the operational changes. An example of a change that may require a span and range adjustment is the installation of low-NOburner technology on a previously uncontrolled unit. Determine the adjusted span(s) using the procedures in section 2.1.2.3 or 2.1.2.4 of this appendix (as applicable). Select the full-scale range(s) of the instrument to be greater than or equal to the adjusted span value(s) and to be consistent with the guidelines of section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) Whenever a full-scale range is exceeded during a quarter and the exceedance is not caused by a monitor out-of-control period, proceed as follows:

(1) For exceedances of the high range, report 200.0 percent of the current full-scale range as the hourly NOconcentration for each hour of the full-scale exceedance and make appropriate adjustments to the MPC, span, and range to prevent future full-scale exceedances.

(2) For units with two NOspans and ranges, if the low range is exceeded, no further action is required, provided that the high range is available and its most recent calibration error test and linearity check have not expired. However, if either of these quality assurance tests has expired and the high range is not able to provide quality assured data at the time of the low range exceedance or at any time during the continuation of the exceedance, report the MPC as the NOconcentration until the readings return to the low range or until the high range is able to provide quality assured data (unless the reason that the high-scale range is not able to provide quality assured data is because the high-scale range has been exceeded; if the high-scale range is exceeded, follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).

(c) Whenever changes are made to the MPC, MEC, full-scale range, or span value of the NOmonitor as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, record and report (as applicable) the new full-scale range setting, the new MPC or MEC, maximum potential NOemission rate, and the adjusted span value in an updated monitoring plan for the unit. The monitoring plan update shall be made in the quarter in which the changes become effective. In addition, record and report the adjusted span as part of the records for the daily calibration error test and linearity check required by appendix B to this part. Whenever the span value is adjusted, use calibration gas concentrations that meet the requirements of section 5.1 of this appendix, based on the adjusted span value. When a span adjustment is significant enough that the calibration gases currently being used for daily calibration error tests and linearity checks are unsuitable for use with the new span value, a diagnostic linearity test using the new calibration gases must be performed and passed. Use the data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3), beginning with the hour in which the span is changed.

For an Omonitor (including Omonitors used to measure COemissions or percentage moisture), select a span value between 15.0 and 25.0 percent O. For a COmonitor installed on a boiler, select a span value between 14.0 and 20.0 percent CO. For a COmonitor installed on a combustion turbine, an alternative span value between 6.0 and 14.0 percent COmay be used. An alternative COspan value below 6.0 percent may be used if an appropriate technical justification is included in the hardcopy monitoring plan. An alternative Ospan value below 15.0 percent Omay be used if an appropriate technical justification is included in the monitoring plan (e.g., Oconcentrations above a certain level create an unsafe operating condition). Select the full-scale range of the instrument to be consistent with section 2.1 of this appendix and to be greater than or equal to the span value. Select the calibration gas concentrations for the daily calibration error tests and linearity checks in accordance with section 5.1 of this appendix, as percentages of the span value. For Omonitors with span values ≥21.0 percent O, purified instrument air containing 20.9 percent Omay be used as the high-level calibration material. If a dual-range or autoranging diluent analyzer is installed, the analyzer may be represented in the monitoring plan as a single component, using a special component type code specified by the Administrator to satisfy the requirements of § 75.53(e)(1)(iv)(D).

The MPC and MEC values for diluent monitors are subject to the same periodic review as SOand NOmonitors (see sections 2.1.1.5 and 2.1.2.5 of this appendix). If an MPC or MEC value is found to be either inappropriately high or low, the MPC shall be adjusted and corresponding span and range adjustments shall be made, if necessary.

For COpollutant concentration monitors, the maximum potential concentration shall be 14.0 percent COfor boilers and 6.0 percent COfor combustion turbines. Alternatively, the owner or operator may determine the MPC based on a minimum of 720 hours of quality-assured historical CEM data representing the full operating load range of the unit(s). Note that the MPC for COmonitors shall only be used for the purpose of providing substitute data under this part. The COmonitor span and range shall be determined according to section 2.1.3 of this appendix.

The owner or operator of a unit that uses a flow monitor and an Odiluent monitor to determine heat input in accordance with Equation F-17 or F-18 in appendix F to this part shall, for the purposes of providing substitute data under § 75.36, determine the minimum potential Oconcentration. The minimum potential Oconcentration shall be based upon 720 hours or more of quality-assured CEM data, representing the full operating load range of the unit(s). The minimum potential Oconcentration shall be the lowest quality-assured hourly average Oconcentration recorded in the 720 (or more) hours of data used for the determination.

The MPC and MEC values for diluent monitors are subject to the same periodic review as SOand NOmonitors (see sections 2.1.1.5 and 2.1.2.5 of this appendix). If an MPC or MEC value is found to be either inappropriately high or low, the MPC shall be adjusted and corresponding span and range adjustments shall be made, if necessary. Adjust the span value and range of a COor Omonitor in accordance with section 2.1.1.5 of this appendix (insofar as those provisions are applicable), with the term "COor O" applying instead of the term "SO". Set the new span and range in accordance with section 2.1.3 of this appendix and report the new span value in the monitoring plan.

Select the full-scale range of the flow monitor so that it is consistent with section 2.1 of this appendix and can accurately measure all potential volumetric flow rates at the flow monitor installation site.

For this purpose, determine the span value of the flow monitor using the following procedure. Calculate the maximum potential velocity (MPV) using Equation A-3a or A-3b or determine the MPV (wet basis) from velocity traverse testing using Reference Method 2 (or its allowable alternatives) in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. If using test values, use the highest average velocity (determined from the Method 2 traverses) measured at or near the maximum unit operating load (or, for units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, at the normal process operating conditions corresponding to the maximum stack gas flow rate). Express the MPV in units of wet standard feet per minute (fpm). For the purpose of providing substitute data during periods of missing flow rate data in accordance with §§ 75.31 and 75.33 and as required elsewhere in this part, calculate the maximum potential stack gas flow rate (MPF) in units of standard cubic feet per hour (scfh), as the product of the MPV (in units of wet, standard fpm) times 60, times the cross-sectional area of the stack or duct (in ft) at the flow monitor location.

Determine the span and range of the flow monitor as follows. Convert the MPV, as determined in section 2.1.4.1 of this appendix, to the same measurement units of flow rate that are used for daily calibration error tests (e.g., scfh, kscfh, kacfm, or differential pressure (inches of water)). Next, determine the "calibration span value" by multiplying the MPV (converted to equivalent daily calibration error units) by a factor no less than 1.00 and no greater than 1.25, and rounding up the result to at least two significant figures. For calibration span values in inches of water, retain at least two decimal places. Select appropriate reference signals for the daily calibration error tests as percentages of the calibration span value, as specified in section 2.2.2.1 of this appendix. Finally, calculate the "flow rate span value" (in scfh) as the product of the MPF, as determined in section 2.1.4.1 of this appendix, times the same factor (between 1.00 and 1.25) that was used to calculate the calibration span value. Round off the flow rate span value to the nearest 1000 scfh. Select the full-scale range of the flow monitor so that it is greater than or equal to the span value and is consistent with section 2.1 of this appendix. Include in the monitoring plan for the unit: calculations of the MPV, MPF, calibration span value, flow rate span value, and full-scale range (expressed both in scfh and, if different, in the measurement units of calibration).

For each affected unit or common stack, the owner or operator shall make a periodic evaluation of the MPV, MPF, span, and range values for each flow rate monitor (at a minimum, an annual evaluation is required) and shall make any necessary span and range adjustments with corresponding monitoring plan updates, as described in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section 2.1.4.3. Span and range adjustments may be required, for example, as a result of changes in the fuel supply, changes in the stack or ductwork configuration, changes in the manner of operation of the unit, or installation or removal of emission controls. In implementing the provisions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section 2.1.4.3, note that flow rate data recorded during short-term, non-representative operating conditions (e.g., a trial burn of a different type of fuel) shall be excluded from consideration. The owner or operator shall keep the results of the most recent span and range evaluation on-site, in a format suitable for inspection. Make each required span or range adjustment no later than 45 days after the end of the quarter in which the need to adjust the span or range is identified.

(a) If the fuel supply, stack or ductwork configuration, operating parameters, or other conditions change such that the maximum potential flow rate changes significantly, adjust the span and range to assure the continued accuracy of the flow monitor. A "significant" change in the MPV or MPF means that the guidelines of section 2.1 of this appendix can no longer be met, as determined by either a periodic evaluation by the owner or operator or from the results of an audit by the Administrator. The owner or operator should evaluate whether any planned changes in operation of the unit may affect the flow of the unit or stack and should plan any necessary span and range changes needed to account for these changes, so that they are made in as timely a manner as practicable to coordinate with the operational changes. Calculate the adjusted calibration span and flow rate span values using the procedures in section 2.1.4.2 of this appendix.

(b) Whenever the full-scale range is exceeded during a quarter, provided that the exceedance is not caused by a monitor out-of-control period, report 200.0 percent of the current full-scale range as the hourly flow rate for each hour of the full-scale exceedance. If the range is exceeded, make appropriate adjustments to the MPF, flow rate span, and range to prevent future full-scale exceedances. Calculate the new calibration span value by converting the new flow rate span value from units of scfh to units of daily calibration. A calibration error test must be performed and passed to validate data on the new range.

(c) Whenever changes are made to the MPV, MPF, full-scale range, or span value of the flow monitor, as described in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, record and report (as applicable) the new full-scale range setting, calculations of the flow rate span value, calibration span value, MPV, and MPF in an updated monitoring plan for the unit. The monitoring plan update shall be made in the quarter in which the changes become effective. Record and report the adjusted calibration span and reference values as parts of the records for the calibration error test required by appendix B to this part. Whenever the calibration span value is adjusted, use reference values for the calibration error test that meet the requirements of section 2.2.2.1 of this appendix, based on the most recent adjusted calibration span value. Perform a calibration error test according to section 2.1.1 of appendix B to this part whenever making a change to the flow monitor span or range, unless the range change also triggers a recertification under § 75.20(b).

Except as provided in section 2.1.6 of this appendix, the owner or operator of a unit that uses a continuous moisture monitoring system to correct emission rates and heat inputs from a dry basis to a wet basis (or vice-versa) shall, for the purpose of providing substitute data under § 75.37, use a default value of 3.0 percent HO as the minimum potential moisture percentage. Alternatively, the minimum potential moisture percentage may be based upon 720 hours or more of quality-assured CEM data, representing the full operating load range of the unit(s). If this option is chosen, the minimum potential moisture percentage shall be the lowest quality-assured hourly average HO concentration recorded in the 720 (or more) hours of data used for the determination.

When Equation 19-3, 19-4 or 19-8 in Method 19 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter is used to determine NOemission rate, the owner or operator of a unit that uses a continuous moisture monitoring system shall, for the purpose of providing substitute data under § 75.37, determine the maximum potential moisture percentage. The maximum potential moisture percentage shall be based upon 720 hours or more of quality-assured CEM data, representing the full operating load range of the unit(s). The maximum potential moisture percentage shall be the highest quality-assured hourly average HO concentration recorded in the 720 (or more) hours of data used for the determination. Alternatively, a default maximum potential moisture value of 15.0 percent HO may be used.

(a) Design and equip each pollutant concentration and COor Omonitor with a calibration gas injection port that allows a check of the entire measurement system when calibration gases are introduced. For extractive and dilution type monitors, all monitoring components exposed to the sample gas, (e.g., sample lines, filters, scrubbers, conditioners, and as much of the probe as practicable) are included in the measurement system. For in situ type monitors, the calibration must check against the injected gas for the performance of all active electronic and optical components (e.g. transmitter, receiver, analyzer).

(b) Design and equip each pollutant concentration or COor Omonitor to allow daily determinations of calibration error (positive or negative) at the zero- and mid-or high-level concentrations specified in section 5.2 of this appendix.

Design all flow monitors to meet the applicable performance specifications.
