
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### i.e.,

(a) Make an initial determination of the maximum potential concentration (MPC) of SOby using Equation A-1a or A-1b. Base the MPC calculation on the maximum percent sulfur and the minimum gross calorific value (GCV) for the highest-sulfur fuel to be burned. The maximum sulfur content and minimum GCV shall be determined from all available fuel sampling and analysis data for that fuel from the previous 12 months (minimum), excluding clearly anomalous fuel sampling values. If both the fuel sulfur content and the GCV are routinely determined from each fuel sample, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to using the highest individual percent sulfur and lowest individual GCV values in the MPC calculation, pair the sulfur content and GCV values from each sample analysis and calculate the ratio of percent sulfur to GCV (%S/GCV) for each pair of values. If this option is selected, the MPC shall be calculated using the highest %S/GCV ratio in Equation A-1a or A-1b. If the designated representative certifies that the highest-sulfur fuel is never burned alone in the unit during normal operation but is always blended or co-fired with other fuel(s), the MPC may be calculated using a best estimate of the highest sulfur content and lowest gross calorific value expected for the blend or fuel mixture and inserting these values into Equation A-1a or A-1b. Derive the best estimate of the highest percent sulfur and lowest GCV for a blend or fuel mixture from weighted-average values based upon the historical composition of the blend or mixture in the previous 12 (or more) months. If insufficient representative fuel sampling data are available to determine the maximum sulfur content and minimum GCV, use values from contract(s) for the fuel(s) that will be combusted by the unit in the MPC calculation.

(b) Alternatively, if a certified SOCEMS is already installed, the owner or operator may make the initial MPC determination based upon quality-assured historical data recorded by the CEMS. For the purposes of this section, 2.1.1.1, a "certified" CEMS means a CEM system that has met the applicable certification requirements of either: This part, or part 60 of this chapter, or a State CEM program, or the source operating permit. If this option is chosen, the MPC shall be the maximum SOconcentration observed during the previous 720 (or more) quality-assured monitor operating hours when combusting the highest-sulfur fuel (or highest-sulfur blend if fuels are always blended or co-fired) that is to be combusted in the unit or units monitored by the SOmonitor. For units with SOemission controls, the certified SOmonitor used to determine the MPC must be located at or before the control device inlet. Report the MPC and the method of determination in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53. Note that the initial MPC value is subject to periodic review under section 2.1.1.5 of this appendix. If an MPC value is found to be either inappropriately high or low, the MPC shall be adjusted in accordance with section 2.1.1.5, and corresponding span and range adjustments shall be made, if necessary.

(c) When performing fuel sampling to determine the MPC, use ASTM Methods: ASTM D129-00, ASTM D240-00, ASTM D1552-01, ASTM D2622-98, ASTM D3176-89 (Reapproved 2002), ASTM D3177-02 (Reapproved 2007), ASTM D4239-02, ASTM D4294-98, ASTM D5865-01a, or ASTM D5865-10 (all incorporated by reference under § 75.6).

(a) Make an initial determination of the maximum expected concentration (MEC) of SOwhenever: (a) SOemission controls are used; or (b) both high-sulfur and low-sulfur fuels (e.g., high-sulfur coal and low-sulfur coal or different grades of fuel oil) or high-sulfur and low-sulfur fuel blends are combusted as primary or backup fuels in a unit without SOemission controls. For units with SOemission controls, use Equation A-2 to make the initial MEC determination. When high-sulfur and low-sulfur fuels or blends are burned as primary or backup fuels in a unit without SOcontrols, use Equation A-1a or A-1b to calculate the initial MEC value for each fuel or blend, except for: (1) the highest-sulfur fuel or blend (for which the MPC was previously calculated in section 2.1.1.1 of this appendix); (2) fuels or blends that are very low sulfur fuels (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter); or (3) fuels or blends that are used only for unit startup. Each initial MEC value shall be documented in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53. Note that each initial MEC value is subject to periodic review under section 2.1.1.5 of this appendix. If an MEC value is found to be either inappropriately high or low, the MEC shall be adjusted in accordance with section 2.1.1.5, and corresponding span and range adjustments shall be made, if necessary.

(b) For each MEC determination, substitute into Equation A-1a or A-1b the highest sulfur content and minimum GCV value for that fuel or blend, based upon all available fuel sampling and analysis results from the previous 12 months (or more), or, if fuel sampling data are unavailable, based upon fuel contract(s).

(c) Alternatively, if a certified SOCEMS is already installed, the owner or operator may make the initial MEC determination(s) based upon historical monitoring data. For the purposes of this section, 2.1.1.2, a "certified" CEMS means a CEM system that has met the applicable certification requirements of either: This part, or part 60 of this chapter, or a State CEM program, or the source operating permit. If this option is chosen for a unit with SOemission controls, the MEC shall be the maximum SOconcentration measured downstream of the control device outlet by the CEMS over the previous 720 (or more) quality-assured monitor operating hours with the unit and the control device both operating normally. For units that burn high- and low-sulfur fuels or blends as primary and backup fuels and have no SOemission controls, the MEC for each fuel shall be the maximum SOconcentration measured by the CEMS over the previous 720 (or more) quality-assured monitor operating hours in which that fuel or blend was the only fuel being burned in the unit.

Determine the high span value and the high full-scale range of the SOmonitor as follows. (Note: For purposes of this part, the high span and range refer, respectively, either to the span and range of a single span unit or to the high span and range of a dual span unit.) The high span value shall be obtained by multiplying the MPC by a factor no less than 1.00 and no greater than 1.25. Round the span value upward to the next highest multiple of 100 ppm. If the SOspan concentration is &#x2264;500 ppm, the span value may either be rounded upward to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm, or to the next highest multiple of 100 ppm. The high span value shall be used to determine concentrations of the calibration gases required for daily calibration error checks and linearity tests. Select the full-scale range of the instrument to be consistent with section 2.1 of this appendix and to be greater than or equal to the span value. Report the full-scale range setting and calculations of the MPC and span in the monitoring plan for the unit. Note that for certain applications, a second (low) SOspan and range may be required (see section 2.1.1.4 of this appendix). If an existing State, local, or federal requirement for span of an SOpollutant concentration monitor requires or allows the use of a span value lower than that required by this section or by section 2.1.1.4 of this appendix, the State, local, or federal span value may be used if a satisfactory explanation is included in the monitoring plan, unless span and/or range adjustments become necessary in accordance with section 2.1.1.5 of this appendix. Span values higher than those required by either this section or section 2.1.1.4 of this appendix must be approved by the Administrator.

For most units, the high span value based on the MPC, as determined under section 2.1.1.3 of this appendix will suffice to measure and record SOconcentrations (unless span and/or range adjustments become necessary in accordance with section 2.1.1.5 of this appendix). In some instances, however, a second (low) span value based on the MEC may be required to ensure accurate measurement of all possible or expected SOconcentrations. To determine whether two SOspan values are required, proceed as follows:

(a) For units with SOemission controls, compare the MEC from section 2.1.1.2 of this appendix to the high full-scale range value from section 2.1.1.3 of this appendix. If the MEC is ≥20.0 percent of the high range value, then the high span value and range determined under section 2.1.1.3 of this appendix are sufficient. If the MEC is <20.0 percent of the high range value, then a second (low) span value is required.

(b) For units that combust high- and low-sulfur primary and backup fuels (or blends) and have no SOcontrols, compare the high range value from section 2.1.1.3 of this appendix (for the highest-sulfur fuel or blend) to the MEC value for each of the other fuels or blends, as determined under section 2.1.1.2 of this appendix. If all of the MEC values are ≥20.0 percent of the high range value, the high span and range determined under section 2.1.1.3 of this appendix are sufficient, regardless of which fuel or blend is burned in the unit. If any MEC value is <20.0 percent of the high range value, then a second (low) span value must be used when that fuel or blend is combusted.

(c) When two SOspans are required, the owner or operator may either use a single SOanalyzer with a dual range (i.e., low- and high-scales) or two separate SOanalyzers connected to a common sample probe and sample interface. Alternatively, if RATAs are performed and passed on both measurement ranges, the owner or operator may use two separate SOanalyzers connected to separate probes and sample interfaces. For units with SOemission controls, the owner or operator may use a low range analyzer and a default high range value, as described in paragraph (f) of this section, in lieu of maintaining and quality assuring a high-scale range. Other monitor configurations are subject to the approval of the Administrator.

(d) The owner or operator shall designate the monitoring systems and components in the monitoring plan under § 75.53 as follows: when a single probe and sample interface are used, either designate the low and high monitor ranges as separate SOcomponents of a single, primary SOmonitoring system; designate the low and high monitor ranges as the SOcomponents of two separate, primary SOmonitoring systems; designate the normal monitor range as a primary monitoring system and the other monitor range as a non-redundant backup monitoring system; or, when a single, dual-range SOanalyzer is used, designate the low and high ranges as a single SOcomponent of a primary SOmonitoring system (if this option is selected, use a special dual-range component type code, as specified by the Administrator, to satisfy the requirements of § 75.53(e)(1)(iv)(D)). When two SOanalyzers are connected to separate probes and sample interfaces, designate the analyzers as the SOcomponents of two separate, primary SOmonitoring systems. For units with SOcontrols, if the default high range value is used, designate the low range analyzer as the SOcomponent of a primary SOmonitoring system. Do not designate the default high range as a monitoring system or component. Other component and system designations are subject to approval by the Administrator. Note that the component and system designations for redundant backup monitoring systems shall be the same as for primary monitoring systems.

(e) Each monitoring system designated as primary or redundant backup shall meet the initial certification and quality assurance requirements for primary monitoring systems in § 75.20(c) or § 75.20(d)(1), as applicable, and appendices A and B to this part, with one exception: relative accuracy test audits (RATAs) are required only on the normal range (for units with SOemission controls, the low range is considered normal). Each monitoring system designated as a non-redundant backup shall meet the applicable quality assurance requirements in § 75.20(d)(2).

(f) For dual span units with SOemission controls, the owner or operator may, as an alternative to maintaining and quality assuring a high monitor range, use a default high range value. If this option is chosen, the owner or operator shall report a default SOconcentration of 200 percent of the MPC for each unit operating hour in which the full-scale of the low range SOanalyzer is exceeded.

(g) The high span value and range shall be determined in accordance with section 2.1.1.3 of this appendix. The low span value shall be obtained by multiplying the MEC by a factor no less than 1.00 and no greater than 1.25, and rounding the result upward to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm (or 100 ppm, as appropriate). For units that burn high- and low-sulfur primary and backup fuels or blends and have no SOemission controls, select, as the basis for calculating the appropriate low span value and range, the fuel-specific MEC value closest to 20.0 percent of the high full-scale range value (from paragraph (b) of this section). The low range must be greater than or equal to the low span value, and the required calibration gases must be selected based on the low span value. However, if the default high range option in paragraph (f) of this section is selected, the full-scale of the low measurement range shall not exceed five times the MEC value (where the MEC is rounded upward to the next highest multiple of 10 ppm). For units with two SOspans, use the low range whenever the SOconcentrations are expected to be consistently below 20.0 percent of the high full-scale range value, i.e., when the MEC of the fuel or blend being combusted is less than 20.0 percent of the high full-scale range value. When the full-scale of the low range is exceeded, the high range shall be used to measure and record the SOconcentrations; or, if applicable, the default high range value in paragraph (f) of this section shall be reported for each hour of the full-scale exceedance.

For each affected unit or common stack, the owner or operator shall make a periodic evaluation of the MPC, MEC, span, and range values for each SOmonitor (at a minimum, an annual evaluation is required) and shall make any necessary span and range adjustments, with corresponding monitoring plan updates, as described in paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section. Span and range adjustments may be required, for example, as a result of changes in the fuel supply, changes in the manner of operation of the unit, or installation or removal of emission controls. In implementing the provisions in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, SOdata recorded during short-term, non-representative process operating conditions (e.g., a trial burn of a different type of fuel) shall be excluded from consideration. The owner or operator shall keep the results of the most recent span and range evaluation on-site, in a format suitable for inspection. Make each required span or range adjustment no later than 45 days after the end of the quarter in which the need to adjust the span or range is identified, except that up to 90 days after the end of that quarter may be taken to implement a span adjustment if the calibration gases currently being used for daily calibration error tests and linearity checks are unsuitable for use with the new span value.

(a) If the fuel supply, the composition of the fuel blend(s), the emission controls, or the manner of operation change such that the maximum expected or potential concentration changes significantly, adjust the span and range setting to assure the continued accuracy of the monitoring system. A "significant" change in the MPC or MEC means that the guidelines in section 2.1 of this appendix can no longer be met, as determined by either a periodic evaluation by the owner or operator or from the results of an audit by the Administrator. The owner or operator should evaluate whether any planned changes in operation of the unit may affect the concentration of emissions being emitted from the unit or stack and should plan any necessary span and range changes needed to account for these changes, so that they are made in as timely a manner as practicable to coordinate with the operational changes. Determine the adjusted span(s) using the procedures in sections 2.1.1.3 and 2.1.1.4 of this appendix (as applicable). Select the full-scale range(s) of the instrument to be greater than or equal to the new span value(s) and to be consistent with the guidelines of section 2.1 of this appendix.

(b) Whenever a full-scale range is exceeded during a quarter and the exceedance is not caused by a monitor out-of-control period, proceed as follows:

(1) For exceedances of the high range, report 200.0 percent of the current full-scale range as the hourly SOconcentration for each hour of the full-scale exceedance and make appropriate adjustments to the MPC, span, and range to prevent future full-scale exceedances.

(2) For units with two SOspans and ranges, if the low range is exceeded, no further action is required, provided that the high range is available and its most recent calibration error test and linearity check have not expired. However, if either of these quality assurance tests has expired and the high range is not able to provide quality assured data at the time of the low range exceedance or at any time during the continuation of the exceedance, report the MPC as the SOconcentration until the readings return to the low range or until the high range is able to provide quality assured data (unless the reason that the high-scale range is not able to provide quality assured data is because the high-scale range has been exceeded; if the high-scale range is exceeded follow the procedures in paragraph (b)(1) of this section).

(c) Whenever changes are made to the MPC, MEC, full-scale range, or span value of the SOmonitor, as described in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, record and report (as applicable) the new full-scale range setting, the new MPC or MEC and calculations of the adjusted span value in an updated monitoring plan. The monitoring plan update shall be made in the quarter in which the changes become effective. In addition, record and report the adjusted span as part of the records for the daily calibration error test and linearity check specified by appendix B to this part. Whenever the span value is adjusted, use calibration gas concentrations that meet the requirements of section 5.1 of this appendix, based on the adjusted span value. When a span adjustment is so significant that the calibration gases currently being used for daily calibration error tests and linearity checks are unsuitable for use with the new span value, then a diagnostic linearity test using the new calibration gases must be performed and passed. Use the data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3), beginning with the hour in which the span is changed.

Determine, as indicated in sections 2.1.2.1 through 2.1.2.5 of this appendix, the span and range value(s) for the NOpollutant concentration monitor so that all expected NOconcentrations can be determined and recorded accurately.

(a) The maximum potential concentration (MPC) of NOfor each affected unit shall be based upon whichever fuel or blend combusted in the unit produces the highest level of NOemissions. For the purposes of this section, 2.1.2.1, and section 2.1.2.2 of this appendix, a "blend" means a frequently-used fuel mixture having a consistent composition (e.g., an oil and gas mixture where the relative proportions of the two fuels vary by no more than 10%, on average). Make an initial determination of the MPC using the appropriate option as follows:

Option 1: Use 800 ppm for coal-fired and 400 ppm for oil- or gas-fired units as the maximum potential concentration of NO(if an MPC of 1600 ppm for coal-fired units or 480 ppm for oil- or gas-fired units was previously selected under this section, that value may still be used, provided that the guidelines of section 2.1 of this appendix are met); For cement kilns, use 2000 ppm as the MPC. For process heaters, use 200 ppm if the unit burns only gaseous fuel and 500 ppm if the unit burns oil;

Option 2: Use the specific values based on boiler type and fuel combusted, listed in Table 2-1 or Table 2-2; For a new gas-fired or oil-fired combustion turbine, if a default MPC value of 50 ppm was previously selected from Table 2-2, that value may be used until March 31, 2003;

Option 3: Use NOemission test results;

Option 4: Use historical CEM data over the previous 720 (or more) unit operating hours when combusting the fuel or blend with the highest NOemission rate; or

Option 5: If a reliable estimate of the uncontrolled NOemissions from the unit is available from the manufacturer, the estimated value may be used.

(b) For the purpose of providing substitute data during NOmissing data periods in accordance with §§ 75.31 and 75.33 and as required elsewhere under this part, the owner or operator shall also calculate the maximum potential NOemission rate (MER), in lb/mmBtu, by substituting the MPC for NOin conjunction with the minimum expected COor maximum Oconcentration (under all unit operating conditions except for unit startup, shutdown, and upsets) and the appropriate F-factor into the applicable equation in appendix F to this part. The diluent cap value of 5.0 percent CO(or 14.0 percent O) for boilers or 1.0 percent CO(or 19.0 percent O) for combustion turbines may be used in the NOMER calculation. As a second alternative, when the NOMPC is determined from emission test results or from historical CEM data, as described in paragraphs (a), (d) and (e) of this section, quality-assured diluent gas (i.e., Oor CO) data recorded concurrently with the MPC may be used to calculate the MER.

(c) Report the method of determining the initial MPC and the calculation of the maximum potential NOemission rate in the monitoring plan for the unit. Note that whichever MPC option in paragraph 2.1.2.1(a) of this appendix is selected, the initial MPC value is subject to periodic review under section 2.1.2.5 of this appendix. If an MPC value is found to be either inappropriately high or low, the MPC shall be adjusted in accordance with section 2.1.2.5, and corresponding span and range adjustments shall be made, if necessary.

(d) For units with add-on NOcontrols (whether or not the unit is equipped with low-NOburner technology), or for units equipped with dry low-NO(DLN) technology, NOemission testing may only be used to determine the MPC if testing can be performed either upstream of the add-on controls or during a time or season when the add-on controls are not in operation or when the DLN controls are not in the premixed (low-NO) mode. If NOemission testing is performed, use the following guidelines. Use Method 7E from appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to measure total NOconcentration. (Note: Method 20 from appendix A to part 60 may be used for gas turbines, instead of Method 7E.) Operate the unit, or group of units sharing a common stack, at the minimum safe and stable load, the normal load, and the maximum load. If the normal load and maximum load are identical, an intermediate level need not be tested. Operate at the highest excess Olevel expected under normal operating conditions. Make at least three runs of 20 minutes (minimum) duration with three traverse points per run at each operating condition. Select the highest point NOconcentration from all test runs as the MPC for NO.

(e) If historical CEM data are used to determine the MPC, the data must, for uncontrolled units or units equipped with low-NOburner technology and no other NOcontrols, represent a minimum of 720 quality-assured monitor operating hours from the NOcomponent of a certified monitoring system, obtained under various operating conditions including the minimum safe and stable load, normal load (including periods of high excess air at normal load), and maximum load. For the purposes of this section, 2.1.2.1, a "certified" CEMS means a CEM system that has met the applicable certification requirements of either: this part, or part 60 of this chapter, or a State CEM program, or the source operating permit. For a unit with add-on NOcontrols (whether or not the unit is equipped with low-NOburner technology), or for a unit equipped with dry low-NO(DLN) technology, historical CEM data may only be used to determine the MPC if the 720 quality-assured monitor operating hours of CEM data are collected upstream of the add-on controls or if the 720 hours of data include periods when the add-on controls are not in operation or when the DLN controls are not in the premixed (low-NOmode). For units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, the data must represent the full range of normal process operation. The highest hourly NOconcentration in ppm shall be the MPC.
