
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### see,i.e.,

Concentrations of research gas mixtures, as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter, must be certified by the National Institute of Standards and Technology to have an analytical uncertainty (95-percent confidence interval) calculated using the statistical procedures (or equivalent statistical techniques) that are listed in Section 2.1.8 of the "EPA Traceability Protocol for Assay and Certification of Gaseous Calibration Standards," September 1997, as amended on August 25, 1999, EPA-600/R-97/121 (incorporated by reference,ยง 75.6) to be not more than plus or minus 2.0 percent (inclusive) of the concentration specified on the cylinder label (the tag value) in order to be used as calibration gas under this part. Inquiries about the RGM program should be directed to: National Institute of Standards and Technology, Analytical Chemistry Division, Chemical Science and Technology Laboratory, B-324 Chemistry, Gaithersburg, MD 20899.

Zero air material is defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter.

Existing certified reference materials (CRMs) that are still within their certification period may be used as calibration gas.

Gas manufacturer's intermediate standards is defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter.

Four concentration levels are required as follows.

0.0 to 20.0 percent of span, including span for high-scale or both low- and high-scale for SO, NO, CO, and Omonitors, as appropriate.

20.0 to 30.0 percent of span, including span for high-scale or both low- and high-scale for SO, NO, CO, and Omonitors, as appropriate.

50.0 to 60.0 percent of span, including span for high-scale or both low- and high-scale for SO, NO, CO, and Omonitors, as appropriate.

80.0 to 100.0 percent of span, including span for high-scale or both low-and high-scale for SO, NO, CO, and Omonitors, as appropriate.

Install the components of the continuous emission monitoring system (i.e., pollutant concentration monitors, COor Omonitor, and flow monitor) as specified in sections 1, 2, and 3 of this appendix, and prepare each system component and the combined system for operation in accordance with the manufacturer's written instructions. Operate the unit(s) during each period when measurements are made. Units may be tested on non-consecutive days. To the extent practicable, test the DAHS software prior to testing the monitoring hardware.
