
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### e.g.,

(d) Design and equip each ultrasonic flow monitor with a means to ensure on at least a daily basis that the transceivers remain sufficiently clean (backpurging system) to prevent velocity sensing interference.

(a) The calibration error performance specifications in this section apply only to 7-day calibration error tests under sections 6.3.1 and 6.3.2 of this appendix and to the offline calibration demonstration described in section 2.1.1.2 of appendix B to this part. The calibration error limits for daily operation of the continuous monitoring systems required under this part are found in section 2.1.4(a) of appendix B to this part.

(b) The calibration error of SOand NOpollutant concentration monitors shall not deviate from the reference value of either the zero or upscale calibration gas by more than 2.5 percent of the span of the instrument, as calculated using Equation A-5 of this appendix. Alternatively, where the span value is less than 200 ppm, calibration error test results are also acceptable if the absolute value of the difference between the monitor response value and the reference value, |R-A| in Equation A-5 of this appendix, is &#x2264;5 ppm. The calibration error of COor Omonitors (including Omonitors used to measure COemissions or percent moisture) shall not deviate from the reference value of the zero or upscale calibration gas by >0.5 percent Oor CO, as calculated using the term |R-A| in the numerator of Equation A-5 of this appendix. The calibration error of flow monitors shall not exceed 3.0 percent of the calibration span value of the instrument, as calculated using Equation A-6 of this appendix. For differential pressure-type flow monitors, the calibration error test results are also acceptable if |R-A|, the absolute value of the difference between the monitor response and the reference value in Equation A-6, does not exceed 0.01 inches of water.

For SOand NOpollutant concentration monitors, the error in linearity for each calibration gas concentration (low-, mid-, and high-levels) shall not exceed or deviate from the reference value by more than 5.0 percent (as calculated using equation A-4 of this appendix). Linearity check results are also acceptable if the absolute value of the difference between the average of the monitor response values and the average of the reference values, | R-A | in equation A-4 of this appendix, is less than or equal to 5 ppm. For COor Omonitors (including Omonitors used to measure COemissions or percent moisture):

(1) The error in linearity for each calibration gas concentration (low-, mid-, and high-levels) shall not exceed or deviate from the reference value by more than 5.0 percent as calculated using equation A-4 of this appendix; or

(2) The absolute value of the difference between the average of the monitor response values and the average of the reference values, | R-A| in equation A-4 of this appendix, shall be less than or equal to 0.5 percent COor O, whichever is less restrictive.

(a) The relative accuracy for SOpollutant concentration monitors shall not exceed 10.0 percent except as provided in this section.

(b) For affected units where the average of the reference method measurements of SOconcentration during the relative accuracy test audit is less than or equal to 250.0 ppm, the difference between the mean value of the monitor measurements and the reference method mean value shall not exceed +/-15.0 ppm, wherever the relative accuracy specification of 10.0 percent is not achieved.

(a) The relative accuracy for NO-diluent continuous emission monitoring systems shall not exceed 10.0 percent.

(b) For affected units where the average of the reference method measurements of NOemission rate during the relative accuracy test audit is less than or equal to 0.200 lb/mmBtu, the difference between the mean value of the continuous emission monitoring system measurements and the reference method mean value shall not exceed +/-0.020 lb/mmBtu, wherever the relative accuracy specification of 10.0 percent is not achieved.

The relative accuracy for COand Omonitors shall not exceed 10.0 percent. The relative accuracy test results are also acceptable if the difference between the mean value of the COor Omonitor measurements and the corresponding reference method measurement mean value, calculated using equation A-7 of this appendix, does not exceed +/-1.0 percent COor O.

(a) The relative accuracy of flow monitors shall not exceed 10.0 percent at any load (or operating) level at which a RATA is performed (i.e., the low, mid, or high level, as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix).

(b) For affected units where the average of the flow reference method measurements of gas velocity at a particular load (or operating) level of the relative accuracy test audit is less than or equal to 10.0 fps, the difference between the mean value of the flow monitor velocity measurements and the reference method mean value in fps at that level shall not exceed +/-2.0 fps, wherever the 10.0 percent relative accuracy specification is not achieved.

The relative accuracy of a moisture monitoring system shall not exceed 10.0 percent. The relative accuracy test results are also acceptable if the difference between the mean value of the reference method measurements (in percent HO) and the corresponding mean value of the moisture monitoring system measurements (in percent HO), calculated using Equation A-7 of this appendix does not exceed +/-1.5 percent HO.

(a) The following requirement applies only to NOconcentration monitoring systems (i.e., NOpollutant concentration monitors) that are used to determine NOmass emissions, where the owner or operator elects to monitor and report NOmass emissions using a NOconcentration monitoring system and a flow monitoring system.

(b) The relative accuracy for NOconcentration monitoring systems shall not exceed 10.0 percent. Alternatively, for affected units where the average of the reference method measurements of NOconcentration during the relative accuracy test audit is less than or equal to 250.0 ppm, the difference between the mean value of the continuous emission monitoring system measurements and the reference method mean value shall not exceed +/-15.0 ppm, wherever the 10.0 percent relative accuracy specification is not achieved.

SOpollutant concentration monitors, NO-diluent continuous emission monitoring systems and NOconcentration monitoring systems used to determine NOmass emissions, as defined in ยง 75.71(a)(2), shall not be biased low as determined by the test procedure in section 7.6 of this appendix. The bias specification applies to all SOpollutant concentration monitors and to all NOconcentration monitoring systems, including those measuring an average SOor NOconcentration of 250.0 ppm or less, and to all NO-diluent continuous emission monitoring systems, including those measuring an average NOemission rate of 0.200 lb/mmBtu or less.

Flow monitors shall not be biased low as determined by the test procedure in section 7.6 of this appendix. The bias specification applies to all flow monitors including those measuring an average gas velocity of 10.0 fps or less.

The cycle time for pollutant concentration monitors, oxygen monitors used to determine percent moisture, and any other monitoring component of a continuous emission monitoring system that is required to perform a cycle time test shall not exceed 15 minutes.
