
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### see,http://www.epa.gov/airmarkets/emissions/aetb.html,aetb@epa.gov

(g) An owner or operator who has requested information from an AETB under paragraph (d) of this part who believes that the information provided by the AETB was either incomplete or inaccurate may request the Administrator's assistance in remedying the alleged deficiencies. Upon such a request, if the Administrator concurs that the information submitted to a source subject to part 75 by an AETB under this section is either incomplete or inaccurate, the Administrator will provide the AETB a description of the deficiencies to be remedied. The Administrator's determination of completeness and accuracy of information will be solely based on the provisions of ASTM D7036-04 (incorporated by reference,§ 75.6) and this part. The Administrator may post the name of the offending AETB on Agency Web sites (including the CAMD Web site) if within 30 days of the Administrator having provided the AETB a description of the deficiencies to be remedied, the AETB does not satisfactorily respond to the source and notify the Administrator of the response by submitting the notification to, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator. The AETB need not submit the information it provides to the owner or operator to the Administrator, unless specifically requested by the Administrator. If after the AETB's name is posted, the Administrator, in consultation with the source, determines that the AETB's response is sufficient, the AETB's name will be removed from the EPA Web sites.

Check the linearity of each SO, NO, CO, and Omonitor while the unit, or group of units for a common stack, is combusting fuel at conditions of typical stack temperature and pressure; it is not necessary for the unit to be generating electricity during this test. Notwithstanding these requirements, if the SOor NOspan value for a particular monitor range is &#x2264;30 ppm, that range is exempted from the linearity check requirements of this part, for initial certification, recertification, and for on-going quality-assurance. For units with two measurement ranges (high and low) for a particular parameter, perform a linearity check on both the low scale (except for SOor NOspan values &#x2264;30 ppm) and the high scale. Note that for a NO-diluent monitoring system with two NOmeasurement ranges, if the low NOscale has a span value &#x2264;30 ppm and is exempt from linearity checks, this does not exempt either the diluent monitor or the high NOscale (if the span is >30 ppm) from linearity check requirements. For on-going quality assurance of the CEMS, perform linearity checks, using the procedures in this section, on the range(s) and at the frequency specified in section 2.2.1 of appendix B to this part. Challenge each monitor with calibration gas, as defined in section 5.1 of this appendix, at the low-, mid-, and high-range concentrations specified in section 5.2 of this appendix. Introduce the calibration gas at the gas injection port, as specified in section 2.2.1 of this appendix. Operate each monitor at its normal operating temperature and conditions. For extractive and dilution type monitors, pass the calibration gas through all filters, scrubbers, conditioners, and other monitor components used during normal sampling and through as much of the sampling probe as is practical. For in-situ type monitors, perform calibration checking all active electronic and optical components, including the transmitter, receiver, and analyzer. Challenge the monitor three times with each reference gas (see example data sheet in Figure 1). Do not use the same gas twice in succession. To the extent practicable, the duration of each linearity test, from the hour of the first injection to the hour of the last injection, shall not exceed 24 unit operating hours. Record the monitor response from the data acquisition and handling system. For each concentration, use the average of the responses to determine the error in linearity using Equation A-4 in this appendix. Linearity checks are acceptable for monitor or monitoring system certification, recertification, or quality assurance if none of the test results exceed the applicable performance specifications in section 3.2 of this appendix. The status of emission data from a CEMS prior to and during a linearity test period shall be determined as follows:

(a) For the initial certification of a CEMS, data from the monitoring system are considered invalid until all certification tests, including the linearity test, have been successfully completed, unless the conditional data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) are used. When the procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) are followed, the words "initial certification" apply instead of "recertification," and complete all of the initial certification tests by the applicable deadline in § 75.4, rather than within the time periods specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) for the individual tests.

(b) For the routine quality assurance linearity checks required by section 2.2.1 of appendix B to this part, use the data validation procedures in section 2.2.3 of appendix B to this part.

(c) When a linearity test is required as a diagnostic test or for recertification, use the data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3).

(d) For linearity tests of non-redundant backup monitoring systems, use the data validation procedures in § 75.20(d)(2)(iii).

(e) For linearity tests performed during a grace period and after the expiration of a grace period, use the data validation procedures in sections 2.2.3 and 2.2.4, respectively, of appendix B to this part.

(f) For all other linearity checks, use the data validation procedures in section 2.2.3 of appendix B to this part.
