
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### i.e.,

(b) For single-load RATAs of SOpollutant concentration monitors, NOconcentration monitoring systems, and NO-diluent monitoring systems, and for the single-load flow RATAs required or allowed under section 6.5.2 of this appendix and sections 2.3.1.3(b) and 2.3.1.3(c) of appendix B to this part, the appropriate BAF is determined directly from the RATA results at normal load, using Equation A-12. Notwithstanding, when a NOconcentration CEMS or an SOCEMS or a NO-diluent CEMS installed on a low-emitting affected unit (average SOor NOconcentration during the RATA &#x2264;250 ppm or average NOemission rate &#x2264;0.200 lb/mmBtu) meets the normal 10.0 percent relative accuracy specification (as calculated using Equation A-10) or the alternate relative accuracy specification in section 3.3 of this appendix for low-emitters, but fails the bias test, the BAF may either be determined using Equation A-12, or a default BAF of 1.111 may be used.

(c) For 2-load or 3-load flow RATAs, when only one load level (low, mid or high) has been designated as normal under section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix and the bias test is passed at the normal load level, apply a BAF of 1.000 to the subsequent flow rate data. If the bias test is failed at the normal load level, use Equation A-12 to calculate the normal load BAF and then perform an additional bias test at the second most frequently-used load level, as determined under section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix. If the bias test is passed at this second load level, apply the normal load BAF to the subsequent flow rate data. If the bias test is failed at this second load level, use Equation A-12 to calculate the BAF at the second load level and apply the higher of the two BAFs (either from the normal load level or from the second load level) to the subsequent flow rate data.

(d) For 2-load or 3-load flow RATAs, when two load levels have been designated as normal under section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix and the bias test is passed at both normal load levels, apply a BAF of 1.000 to the subsequent flow rate data. If the bias test is failed at one of the normal load levels but not at the other, use Equation A-12 to calculate the BAF for the normal load level at which the bias test was failed and apply that BAF to the subsequent flow rate data. If the bias test is failed at both designated normal load levels, use Equation A-12 to calculate the BAF at each normal load level and apply the higher of the two BAFs to the subsequent flow rate data.

(e) Each time a RATA is passed and the appropriate bias adjustment factor has been determined, apply the BAF prospectively to all monitoring system data, beginning with the first clock hour following the hour in which the RATA was completed. For a 2-load flow RATA, the "hour in which the RATA was completed" refers to the hour in which the testing at both loads was completed; for a 3-load RATA, it refers to the hour in which the testing at all three loads was completed.

(f) Use the bias-adjusted values in computing substitution values in the missing data procedure, as specified in subpart D of this part, and in reporting the concentration of SO, the flow rate, the average NOemission rate, the unit heat input, and the calculated mass emissions of SOand COduring the quarter and calendar year, as specified in subpart G of this part. In addition, when using a NOconcentration monitoring system and a flow monitor to calculate NOmass emissions under subpart H of this part, use bias-adjusted values for NOconcentration and flow rate in the mass emission calculations and use bias-adjusted NOconcentrations to compute the appropriate substitution values for NOconcentration in the missing data routines under subpart D of this part.

(g) For units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section apply, except that the terms, "single-load", "2-load", "3-load", and "load level" shall be replaced, respectively, with the terms, "single-level", "2-level", "3-level", and "operating level".

(a) Except as provided in section 7.8 of this appendix, the owner or operator shall determine R, the reference value of the ratio of flow rate to unit load, each time that a passing flow RATA is performed at a load level designated as normal in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix. The owner or operator shall report the current value of Rin the electronic quarterly report required under ยง 75.64 and shall also report the completion date of the associated RATA. If two load levels have been designated as normal under section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix, the owner or operator shall determine a separate Rvalue for each of the normal load levels. The reference flow-to-load ratio shall be calculated as follows:

(b) In Equation A-13, for a common stack, determine Lby summing, for each RATA run, the operating loads of all units discharging through the common stack, and then taking the arithmetic average of the summed loads. For a unit that discharges its emissions through multiple stacks, either determine a single value of Qfor the unit or a separate value of Qfor each stack. In the former case, calculate Qby summing, for each RATA run, the volumetric flow rates through the individual stacks and then taking the arithmetic average of the summed RATA run flow rates. In the latter case, calculate the value of Qfor each stack by taking the arithmetic average, for all RATA runs, of the flow rates through the stack. For a unit with a multiple stack discharge configuration consisting of a main stack and a bypass stack (e.g., a unit with a wet SOscrubber), determine Qseparately for each stack at the time of the normal load flow RATA. Round off the value of Rto two decimal places.

(c) In addition to determining Ror as an alternative to determining R, a reference value of the gross heat rate (GHR) may be determined. In order to use this option, quality-assured diluent gas (COor O) must be available for each hour of the most recent normal-load flow RATA. The reference value of the GHR shall be determined as follows:

(d) In the calculation of (Heat Input), use Q, the average volumetric flow rate measured by the reference method during the RATA, and use the average diluent gas concentration measured during the flow RATA (i.e., the arithmetic average of the diluent gas concentrations for all clock hours in which a RATA run was performed).

(a) For complex stack configuations (e.g., when the effluent from a unit is divided and discharges through multiple stacks in such a manner that the flow rate in the individual stacks cannot be correlated with unit load), the owner or operator may petition the Administrator under ยง 75.66 for an exemption from the requirements of section 7.7 of this appendix and section 2.2.5 fo appendix B to this part. The petition must include sufficient information and data to demonstrate that a flow-to-load or gross heat rate evaluation is infeasible for the complex stack configuration.

(b) Units that do not produce electrical output (in megawatts) or thermal output (in klb of steam per hour) are exempted from the flow-to-load ratio test requirements of section 7.7 of this appendix and section 2.2.5 of appendix B to this part.

A. To determine the upscale cycle time (Figure 6a), measure the flue gas emissions until the response stabilizes. Record the stabilized value (see section 6.4 of this appendix for the stability criteria).

B. Inject a high-level calibration gas into the port leading to the calibration cell or thimble (Point B). Allow the analyzer to stabilize. Record the stabilized value.

C. Determine the step change. The step change is equal to the difference between the final stable calibration gas value (Point D) and the stabilized stack emissions value (Point A).

D. Take 95% of the step change value and add the result to the stabilized stack emissions value (Point A). Determine the time at which 95% of the step change occurred (Point C).

E. Calculate the upscale cycle time by subtracting the time at which the calibration gas was injected (Point B) from the time at which 95% of the step change occurred (Point C). In this example, upscale cycle time = (11-5) = 6 minutes.

F. To determine the downscale cycle time (Figure 6b) repeat the procedures above, except that a zero gas is injected when the flue gas emissions have stabilized, and 95% of the step change in concentration is subtracted from the stabilized stack emissions value.

G. Compare the upscale and downscale cycle time values. The longer of these two times is the cycle time for the analyzer.
