
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### i.e.,

(b) For the initial certification of a gas monitoring system and for recertifications in which, in addition to a RATA, one or more other tests are required (a linearity test, cycle time test, or 7-day calibration error test), EPA recommends that the RATA not be commenced until the other required tests of the CEMS have been passed.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b) or (e) of this section, perform relative accuracy test audits for the initial certification of each flow monitor at three different exhaust gas velocities (low, mid, and high), corresponding to three different load levels or operating levels within the range of operation, as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix. For a common stack/duct, the three different exhaust gas velocities may be obtained from frequently used unit/load or operating level combinations for the units exhausting to the common stack. Select the three exhaust gas velocities such that the audit points at adjacent load or operating levels (i.e., low and mid or mid and high), in megawatts (or in thousands of lb/hr of steam production or in ft/sec, as applicable), are separated by no less than 25.0 percent of the range of operation, as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix.

(b) For flow monitors on bypass stacks/ducts and peaking units, the flow monitor relative accuracy test audits for initial certification and recertification shall be single-load tests, performed at the normal load, as defined in section 6.5.2.1(d) of this appendix.

(c) Flow monitor recertification RATAs shall be done at three load level(s) (or three operating levels), unless otherwise specified in paragraph (b) or (e) of this section or unless otherwise specified or approved by the Administrator.

(d) The semiannual and annual quality assurance flow monitor RATAs required under appendix B to this part shall be done at the load level(s) (or operating levels) specified in section 2.3.1.3 of appendix B to this part.

(e) For flow monitors installed on units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, the flow RATAs for initial certification or recertification may be done at fewer than three operating levels, if:

(1) The owner or operator provides a technical justification in the hardcopy portion of the monitoring plan for the unit required under ยง 75.53(e)(2), demonstrating that the unit operates at only one level or two levels during normal operation (excluding unit startup and shutdown). Appropriate documentation and data must be provided to support the claim of single-level or two-level operation; and

(2) The justification provided in paragraph (e)(1) of this section is deemed to be acceptable by the permitting authority.

(a) The owner or operator shall determine the upper and lower boundaries of the "range of operation" as follows for each unit (or combination of units, for common stack configurations):

(1) For affected units that produce electrical output (in megawatts) or thermal output (in klb/hr of steam production or mmBtu/hr), the lower boundary of the range of operation of a unit shall be the minimum safe, stable loads for any of the units discharging through the stack. Alternatively, for a group of frequently-operated units that serve a common stack, the sum of the minimum safe, stable loads for the individual units may be used as the lower boundary of the range of operation. The upper boundary of the range of operation of a unit shall be the maximum sustainable load. The "maximum sustainable load" is the higher of either: the nameplate or rated capacity of the unit, less any physical or regulatory limitations or other deratings; or the highest sustainable load, based on at least four quarters of representative historical operating data. For common stacks, the maximum sustainable load is the sum of all of the maximum sustainable loads of the individual units discharging through the stack, unless this load is unattainable in practice, in which case use the highest sustainable combined load for the units that discharge through the stack. Based on at least four quarters of representative historical operating data. The load values for the unit(s) shall be expressed either in units of megawatts of thousands of lb/hr of steam load or mmBtu/hr of thermal output; or

(2) For affected units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, the lower boundary of the range of operation shall be the minimum expected flue gas velocity (in ft/sec) during normal, stable operation of the unit. The upper boundary of the range of operation shall be the maximum potential flue gas velocity (in ft/sec) as defined in section 2.1.4.1 of this appendix. The minimum expected and maximum potential velocities may be derived from the results of reference method testing or by using Equation A-3a or A-3b (as applicable) in section 2.1.4.1 of this appendix. If Equation A-3a or A-3b is used to determine the minimum expected velocity, replace the word "maximum" with the word "minimum" in the definitions of "MPV," "H," "% O," and "% HO," and replace the word "minimum" with the word "maximum" in the definition of "CO." Alternatively, 0.0 ft/sec may be used as the lower boundary of the range of operation.

(b) The operating levels for relative accuracy test audits shall, except for peaking units, be defined as follows: the "low" operating level shall be the first 30.0 percent of the range of operation; the "mid" operating level shall be the middle portion (>30.0 percent, but &#x2264;60.0 percent) of the range of operation; and the "high" operating level shall be the upper end (>60.0 percent) of the range of operation. For example, if the upper and lower boundaries of the range of operation are 100 and 1100 megawatts, respectively, then the low, mid, and high operating levels would be 100 to 400 megawatts, 400 to 700 megawatts, and 700 to 1100 megawatts, respectively.

(c) Units that do not produce electrical or thermal output are exempted from the requirements of this paragraph, (c). The owner or operator shall identify, for each affected unit or common stack (except for peaking units and units using the low mass emissions (LME) excepted methodology under ยง 75.19), the "normal" load level or levels (low, mid or high), based on the operating history of the unit(s). To identify the normal load level(s), the owner or operator shall, at a minimum, determine the relative number of operating hours at each of the three load levels, low, mid and high over the past four representative operating quarters. The owner or operator shall determine, to the nearest 0.1 percent, the percentage of the time that each load level (low, mid, high) has been used during that time period. A summary of the data used for this determination and the calculated results shall be kept on-site in a format suitable for inspection. For new units or newly-affected units, the data analysis in this paragraph may be based on fewer than four quarters of data if fewer than four representative quarters of historical load data are available. Or, if no historical load data are available, the owner or operator may designate the normal load based on the expected or projected manner of operating the unit. However, in either case, once four quarters of representative data become available, the historical load analysis shall be repeated.

(d) Determination of normal load (or operating level)

(1) Based on the analysis of the historical load data described in paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator shall, for units that produce electrical or thermal output, designate the most frequently used load level as the normal load level for the unit (or combination of units, for common stacks). The owner or operator may also designate the second most frequently used load level as an additional normal load level for the unit or stack. For peaking units and LME units, normal load designations are unnecessary; the entire operating load range shall be considered normal. If the manner of operation of the unit changes significantly, such that the designated normal load(s) or the two most frequently used load levels change, the owner or operator shall repeat the historical load analysis and shall redesignate the normal load(s) and the two most frequently used load levels, as appropriate. A minimum of two representative quarters of historical load data are required to document that a change in the manner of unit operation has occurred. Update the electronic monitoring plan whenever the normal load level(s) and the two most frequently-used load levels are redesignated.

(2) For units that do not produce electrical or thermal output, the normal operating level(s) shall be determined using sound engineering judgment, based on knowledge of the unit and operating experience with the industrial process.

(e) The owner or operator shall report the upper and lower boundaries of the range of operation for each unit (or combination of units, for common stacks), in units of megawatts or thousands of lb/hr or mmBtu/hr of steam production or ft/sec (as applicable), in the electronic monitoring plan required under ยง 75.53. Except for peaking units and LME units, the owner or operator shall indicate, in the electronic monitoring plan, the load level (or levels) designated as normal under this section and shall also indicate the two most frequently used load levels.

For each multi-load (or multi-level) flow RATA, calculate the flow monitor relative accuracy at each operating level. If a flow monitor relative accuracy test is failed or aborted due to a problem with the monitor on any level of a 2-level (or 3-level) relative accuracy test audit, the RATA must be repeated at that load (or operating) level. However, the entire 2-level (or 3-level) relative accuracy test audit does not have to be repeated unless the flow monitor polynomial coefficients or K-factor(s) are changed, in which case a 3-level RATA is required (or, a 2-level RATA, for units demonstrated to operate at only two levels, under section 6.5.2(e) of this appendix).

Using the data from the relative accuracy test audits, calculate relative accuracy and bias in accordance with the procedures and equations specified in section 7 of this appendix.

Select a location for reference method measurements that is (1) accessible; (2) in the same proximity as the monitor or monitoring system location; and (3) meets the requirements of Performance Specification 2 in appendix B of part 60 of this chapter for SOand NOcontinuous emission monitoring systems, Performance Specification 3 in appendix B of part 60 of this chapter for COor Omonitors, or method 1 (or 1A) in appendix A of part 60 of this chapter for volumetric flow, except as otherwise indicated in this section or as approved by the Administrator.

Select traverse points that ensure acquisition of representative samples of pollutant and diluent concentrations, moisture content, temperature, and flue gas flow rate over the flue cross section. To achieve this, the reference method traverse points shall meet the requirements of section 8.1.3 of Performance Specification 2 ("PS No. 2") in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (for SO, NO, and moisture monitoring system RATAs), Performance Specification 3 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (for Oand COmonitor RATAs), Method 1 (or 1A) (for volumetric flow rate monitor RATAs), Method 3 (for molecular weight), and Method 4 (for moisture determination) in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter. The following alternative reference method traverse point locations are permitted for moisture and gas monitor RATAs:

(a) For moisture determinations where the moisture data are used only to determine stack gas molecular weight, a single reference method point, located at least 1.0 meter from the stack wall, may be used. For moisture monitoring system RATAs and for gas monitor RATAs in which moisture data are used to correct pollutant or diluent concentrations from a dry basis to a wet basis (or vice-versa), single-point moisture sampling may only be used if the 12-point stratification test described in section 6.5.6.1 of this appendix is performed prior to the RATA for at least one pollutant or diluent gas, and if the test is passed according to the acceptance criteria in section 6.5.6.3(b) of this appendix.

(b) For gas monitoring system RATAs, the owner or operator may use any of the following options:

(1) At any location (including locations where stratification is expected), use a minimum of six traverse points along a diameter, in the direction of any expected stratification. The points shall be located in accordance with Method 1 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(2) At locations where section 8.1.3 of PS No. 2 allows the use of a short reference method measurement line (with three points located at 0.4, 1.2, and 2.0 meters from the stack wall), the owner or operator may use an alternative 3-point measurement line, locating the three points at 4.4, 14.6, and 29.6 percent of the way across the stack, in accordance with Method 1 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(3) At locations where stratification is likely to occur (e.g., following a wet scrubber or when dissimilar gas streams are combined), the short measurement line from section 8.1.3 of PS No. 2 (or the alternative line described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section) may be used in lieu of the prescribed "long" measurement line in section 8.1.3 of PS No. 2, provided that the 12-point stratification test described in section 6.5.6.1 of this appendix is performed and passed one time at the location (according to the acceptance criteria of section 6.5.6.3(a) of this appendix) and provided that either the 12-point stratification test or the alternative (abbreviated) stratification test in section 6.5.6.2 of this appendix is performed and passed prior to each subsequent RATA at the location (according to the acceptance criteria of section 6.5.6.3(a) of this appendix).

(4) A single reference method measurement point, located no less than 1.0 meter from the stack wall and situated along one of the measurement lines used for the stratification test, may be used at any sampling location if the 12-point stratification test described in section 6.5.6.1 of this appendix is performed and passed prior to each RATA at the location (according to the acceptance criteria of section 6.5.6.3(b) of this appendix).

(5) If Method 7E is used as the reference method for the RATA of a NOCEMS installed on a combustion turbine, the reference method measurements may be made at the sampling points specified in section 6.1.2 of Method 20 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(a) With the unit(s) operating under steady-state conditions at the normal load level (or normal operating level), as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix, use a traversing gas sampling probe to measure the pollutant (SOor NO) and diluent (COor O) concentrations at a minimum of twelve (12) points, located according to Method 1 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(b) Use Methods 6C, 7E, and 3A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to make the measurements. Data from the reference method analyzers must be quality-assured by performing analyzer calibration error and system bias checks before the series of measurements and by conducting system bias and calibration drift checks after the measurements, in accordance with the procedures of Methods 6C, 7E, and 3A.

(c) Measure for a minimum of 2 minutes at each traverse point. To the extent practicable, complete the traverse within a 2-hour period.

(d) If the load has remained constant (+/-3.0 percent) during the traverse and if the reference method analyzers have passed all of the required quality assurance checks, proceed with the data analysis.

(e) Calculate the average NO, SO, and CO(or O) concentrations at each of the individual traverse points. Then, calculate the arithmetic average NO, SO, and CO(or O) concentrations for all traverse points.

(a) With the unit(s) operating under steady-state conditions at normal load level (or normal operating level), as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix, use a traversing gas sampling probe to measure the pollutant (SOor NO) and diluent (COor O) concentrations at three points. The points shall be located according to the specifications for the long measurement line in section 8.1.3 of PS No. 2 (i.e., locate the points 16.7 percent, 50.0 percent, and 83.3 percent of the way across the stack). Alternatively, the concentration measurements may be made at six traverse points along a diameter. The six points shall be located in accordance with Method 1 in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter.

(b) Use Methods 6C, 7E, and 3A in appendix A to part 60 of this chapter to make the measurements. Data from the reference method analyzers must be quality-assured by performing analyzer calibration error and system bias checks before the series of measurements and by conducting system bias and calibration drift checks after the measurements, in accordance with the procedures of Methods 6C, 7E, and 3A.

(c) Measure for a minimum of 2 minutes at each traverse point. To the extent practicable, complete the traverse within a 1-hour period.

(d) If the load has remained constant (+/-3.0 percent) during the traverse and if the reference method analyzers have passed all of the required quality assurance checks, proceed with the data analysis.

(e) Calculate the average NO, SO, and CO(or O) concentrations at each of the individual traverse points. Then, calculate the arithmetic average NO, SO, and CO(or O) concentrations for all traverse points.

(a) For each pollutant or diluent gas, the short reference method measurement line described in section 8.1.3 of PS No. 2 may be used in lieu of the long measurement line prescribed in section 8.1.3 of PS No. 2 if the results of a stratification test, conducted in accordance with section 6.5.6.1 or 6.5.6.2 of this appendix (as appropriate; see section 6.5.6(b)(3) of this appendix), show that the concentration at each individual traverse point differs by no more than +/-10.0 percent from the arithmetic average concentration for all traverse points. The results are also acceptable if the concentration at each individual traverse point differs by no more than +/-5ppm or +/-0.5 percent CO(or O) from the arithmetic average concentration for all traverse points.

(b) For each pollutant or diluent gas, a single reference method measurement point, located at least 1.0 meter from the stack wall and situated along one of the measurement lines used for the stratification test, may be used for that pollutant or diluent gas if the results of a stratification test, conducted in accordance with section 6.5.6.1 of this appendix, show that the concentration at each individual traverse point differs by no more than +/-5.0 percent from the arithmetic average concentration for all traverse points. The results are also acceptable if the concentration at each individual traverse point differs by no more than +/-3 ppm or +/-0.3 percent CO(or O) from the arithmetic average concentration for all traverse points.

(c) The owner or operator shall keep the results of all stratification tests on-site, in a format suitable for inspection, as part of the supplementary RATA records required under ยง 75.59(a)(7).
