
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures

Develop and implement a quality assurance/quality control (QA/QC) program for the continuous emission monitoring systems, excepted monitoring systems approved under appendix D or E to this part, and alternative monitoring systems under subpart E of this part, and their components. At a minimum, include in each QA/QC program a written plan that describes in detail (or that refers to separate documents containing) complete, step-by-step procedures and operations for each of the following activities. Upon request from regulatory authorities, the source shall make all procedures, maintenance records, and ancillary supporting documentation from the manufacturer (e.g., software coefficients and troubleshooting diagrams) available for review during an audit. Electronic storage of the information in the QA/QC plan is permissible, provided that the information can be made available in hardcopy upon request during an audit.

Keep a written record of procedures needed to maintain the monitoring system in proper operating condition and a schedule for those procedures. This shall, at a minimum, include procedures specified by the manufacturers of the equipment and, if applicable, additional or alternate procedures developed for the equipment.

Keep a written record describing procedures that will be used to implement the recordkeeping and reporting requirements in subparts E, F, and G and appendices D and E to this part, as applicable.

Keep a record of all testing, maintenance, or repair activities performed on any monitoring system or component in a location and format suitable for inspection. A maintenance log may be used for this purpose. The following records should be maintained: date, time, and description of any testing, adjustment, repair, replacement, or preventive maintenance action performed on any monitoring system and records of any corrective actions associated with a monitor's outage period. Additionally, any adjustment that recharacterizes a system's ability to record and report emissions data must be recorded (e.g., changing of flow monitor or moisture monitoring system polynomial coefficients, K factors or mathematical algorithms, changing of temperature and pressure coefficients and dilution ratio settings), and a written explanation of the procedures used to make the adjustment(s) shall be kept.

1.1.4 The provisions in section 6.1.2 of appendix A to this part shall apply to the annual RATAs described in § 75.74(c)(2)(ii) and to the semiannual and annual RATAs described in section 2.3 of this appendix.

Keep a written record of the procedures used for daily calibration error tests and linearity checks (e.g., how gases are to be injected, adjustments of flow rates and pressure, introduction of reference values, length of time for injection of calibration gases, steps for obtaining calibration error or error in linearity, determination of interferences, and when calibration adjustments should be made). Identify any calibration error test and linearity check procedures specific to the continuous emission monitoring system that vary from the procedures in appendix A to this part.

Explain how each component of the continuous emission monitoring system will be adjusted to provide correct responses to calibration gases, reference values, and/or indications of interference both initially and after repairs or corrective action. Identify equations, conversion factors and other factors affecting calibration of each continuous emission monitoring system.

Keep a written record of procedures and details peculiar to the installed continuous emission monitoring systems that are to be used for relative accuracy test audits, such as sampling and analysis methods.

The owner or operator shall keep a written (or electronic) record including a list of operating parameters for the add-on SOor NOemission controls, including parameters in § 75.55(b) or § 75.58(b), as applicable, and the range of each operating parameter that indicates the add-on emission controls are operating properly. The owner or operator shall keep a written (or electronic) record of the parametric monitoring data during each SOor NOmissing data period.

Keep a written record of the specific fuel flowmeter accuracy test procedures. These may include: standard methods or specifications listed in and of appendix D to this part and incorporated by reference under § 75.6; the procedures of sections 2.1.5.2 or 2.1.7 of appendix D to this part; or other methods approved by the Administrator through the petition process of § 75.66(c).

Keep a written record of the procedures for testing the accuracy of transducers or transmitters of an orifice-, nozzle-, or venturi-type fuel flowmeter under section 2.1.6 of appendix D to this part. These procedures should include a description of equipment used, steps in testing, and frequency of testing.

Keep a record of adjustments, maintenance, or repairs performed on the fuel flowmeter monitoring system. Keep records of the data and results for fuel flowmeter accuracy tests and transducer accuracy tests, consistent with appendix D to this part.

Keep a written record of the standard operating procedures for inspection of the primary element (i.e., orifice, venturi, or nozzle) of an orifice-, venturi-, or nozzle-type fuel flowmeter. Examples of the types of information to be included are: what to examine on the primary element; how to identify if there is corrosion sufficient to affect the accuracy of the primary element; and what inspection tools (e.g., baroscope), if any, are used.

Keep a written record of the standard procedures used to perform fuel sampling, either by utility personnel or by fuel supply company personnel. These procedures should specify the portion of the ASTM method used, as incorporated by reference under § 75.6, or other methods approved by the Administrator through the petition process of § 75.66(c). These procedures should describe safeguards for ensuring the availability of an oil sample (e.g., procedure and location for splitting samples, procedure for maintaining sample splits on site, and procedure for transmitting samples to an analytical laboratory). These procedures should identify the ASTM analytical methods used to analyze sulfur content, gross calorific value, and density, as incorporated by reference under § 75.6, or other methods approved by the Administrator through the petition process of § 75.66(c).

Identify the recommended range of quality assurance- and quality control-related operating parameters. Keep records of these operating parameters for each hour of unit operation (i.e., fuel combustion). Keep a written record of the procedures used to perform NOemission rate testing. Keep a copy of all data and results from the initial and from the most recent NOemission rate testing, including the values of quality assurance parameters specified in section 2.3 of appendix E to this part.

Explain how the daily assessment procedures specific to the alternative monitoring system are to be performed.

Explain how each component of the alternative monitoring system will be adjusted in response to the results of the daily assessments.

Keep a written record of procedures and details peculiar to the installed alternative monitoring system that are to be used for relative accuracy test audits, such as sampling and analysis methods.

A summary chart showing each quality assurance test and the frequency at which each test is required is located at the end of this appendix in Figure 1.

Perform the following daily assessments to quality-assure the hourly data recorded by the monitoring systems during each period of unit operation, or, for a bypass stack or duct, each period in which emissions pass through the bypass stack or duct. These requirements are effective as of the date when the monitor or continuous emission monitoring system completes certification testing.

Except as provided in section 2.1.1.2 of this appendix, perform the daily calibration error test of each gas monitoring system (including moisture monitoring systems consisting of wet- and dry-basis Oanalyzers) according to the procedures in section 6.3.1 of appendix A to this part, and perform the daily calibration error test of each flow monitoring system according to the procedure in section 6.3.2 of appendix A to this part. When two measurement ranges (low and high) are required for a particular parameter, perform sufficient calibration error tests on each range to validate the data recorded on that range, according to the criteria in section 2.1.5 of this appendix.
