
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### e.g.,,i.e.,,i.e.,

(a) Conduct the reference method tests allowed in section 6.5.10 of this appendix so they will yield results representative of the pollutant concentration, emission rate, moisture, temperature, and flue gas flow rate from the unit and can be correlated with the pollutant concentration monitor, COor Omonitor, flow monitor, and SOor NOCEMS measurements. The minimum acceptable time for a gas monitoring system RATA run or for a moisture monitoring system RATA run is 21 minutes. For each run of a gas monitoring system RATA, all necessary pollutant concentration measurements, diluent concentration measurements, and moisture measurements (if applicable) must, to the extent practicable, be made within a 60-minute period. For NO-diluent monitoring system RATAs, the pollutant and diluent concentration measurements must be made simultaneously. For flow monitor RATAs, the minimum time per run shall be 5 minutes. Flow rate reference method measurements allowed in section 6.5.10 of this appendix may be made either sequentially from port-to-port or simultaneously at two or more sample ports. The velocity measurement probe may be moved from traverse point to traverse point either manually or automatically. If, during a flow RATA, significant pulsations in the reference method readings are observed, be sure to allow enough measurement time at each traverse point to obtain an accurate average reading when a manual readout method is used (a "sight-weighted" average from a manometer). Also, allow sufficient measurement time to ensure that stable temperature readings are obtained at each traverse point, particularly at the first measurement point at each sample port, when a probe is moved sequentially from port-to-port. A minimum of one set of auxiliary measurements for stack gas molecular weight determination (diluent gas data and moisture data) is required for every clock hour of a flow RATA or for every three test runs (whichever is less restrictive). Alternatively, moisture measurements for molecular weight determination may be performed before and after a series of flow RATA runs at a particular load level (low, mid, or high), provided that the time interval between the two moisture measurements does not exceed three hours. If this option is selected, the results of the two moisture determinations shall be averaged arithmetically and applied to all RATA runs in the series. Successive flow RATA runs may be performed without waiting in between runs. If an Odiluent monitor is used as a COcontinuous emission monitoring system, perform a COsystem RATA (measure CO, rather than O, with the applicable reference method allowed in section 6.5.10 of this appendix). For moisture monitoring systems, an appropriate coefficient, "K" factor or other suitable mathematical algorithm may be developed prior to the RATA, to adjust the monitoring system readings with respect to the applicable reference method allowed in section 6.5.10 of this appendix. If such a coefficient, K-factor or algorithm is developed, it shall be applied to the CEMS readings during the RATA and (if the RATA is passed), to the subsequent CEMS data, by means of the automated data acquisition and handling system. The owner or operator shall keep records of the current coefficient, K factor or algorithm, as specified in ยง 75.59(a)(5)(vii). Whenever the coefficient, K factor or algorithm is changed, a RATA of the moisture monitoring system is required.

(b) To properly correlate individual SOor NOCEMS data (in lb/mmBtu) and volumetric flow rate data with the applicable reference method data, annotate the beginning and end of each reference method test run (including the exact time of day) on the individual chart recorder(s) or other permanent recording device(s).

Confirm that the monitor or monitoring system and reference method test results are on consistent moisture, pressure, temperature, and diluent concentration basis (e.g., since the flow monitor measures flow rate on a wet basis, method 2 test results must also be on a wet basis). Compare flow-monitor and reference method results on a scfh basis. Also, consider the response times of the pollutant concentration monitor, the continuous emission monitoring system, and the flow monitoring system to ensure comparison of simultaneous measurements.

For each relative accuracy test audit run, compare the measurements obtained from the monitor or continuous emission monitoring system (in ppm, percent CO, lb/mmBtu, or other units) against the corresponding reference method values. Tabulate the paired data in a table such as the one shown in Figure 2.

Perform a minimum of nine sets of paired monitor (or monitoring system) and reference method test data for every required (i.e., certification, recertification, diagnostic, semiannual, or annual) relative accuracy test audit. For 2-level and 3-level relative accuracy test audits of flow monitors, perform a minimum of nine sets at each of the operating levels.

The following methods are from appendix A to part 60 of this chapter, and are the reference methods for performing relative accuracy test audits under this part: Method 1 or 1A in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter for siting; Method 2 in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter or its allowable alternatives in appendices A-1 and A-2 to part 60 of this chapter (except for Methods 2B and 2E in appendix A-1 to part 60 of this chapter) for stack gas velocity and volumetric flow rate; Methods 3, 3A or 3B in appendix A-2 to part 60 of this chapter for Oand CO; Method 4 in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter for moisture; Methods 6, 6A or 6C in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter for SO; and Methods 7, 7A, 7C, 7D or 7E in appendix A-4 to part 60 of this chapter for NO, excluding the exceptions to Method 7E identified in ยง 75.22(a)(5). When using Method 7E for measuring NOconcentration, total NO, including both NO and NO, must be measured. When using EPA Protocol gas with Methods 3A, 6C, and 7E, the gas must be from an EPA Protocol gas production site that is participating in the EPA Protocol Gas Verification Program, pursuant to ยง 75.21(g)(6). An EPA Protocol gas cylinder certified by or ordered from a non-participating production site no later than May 27, 2011 may be used for the purposes of this part until the earlier of the cylinder's expiration date or the date on which the cylinder gas pressure reaches 150 psig; however, in no case shall the cylinder be recertified by a non-participating EPA Protocol gas production site to extend its useful life and be used by a source subject to this part. In the event that an EPA Protocol gas production site is removed from the list of PGVP participants on the same date as or after the date on which a particular cylinder is certified or ordered, that gas cylinder may continue to be used for the purposes of this part until the earlier of the cylinder's expiration date or the date on which the cylinder gas pressure reaches 150 psig; however, in no case shall the cylinder be recertified by a non-participating EPA Protocol gas production site to extend its useful life and be used by a source subject to this part.

Analyze the linearity data for pollutant concentration and COor Omonitors as follows. Calculate the percentage error in linearity based upon the reference value at the low-level, mid-level, and high-level concentrations specified in section 6.2 of this appendix. Perform this calculation once during the certification test. Use the following equation to calculate the error in linearity for each reference value.

For each reference value, calculate the percentage calibration error based upon instrument span for daily calibration error tests using the following equation:

For each reference value, calculate the percentage calibration error based upon span using the following equation:

Analyze the relative accuracy test audit data from the reference method tests for SOand COemissions concentration monitors, COor Omonitors used for heat input rate determination, NOconcentration monitoring systems used to determine NOmass emissions under subpart H of this part, and flow monitors using the following procedures. Summarize the results on a data sheet. An example is shown in Figure 2. Calculate the mean of the monitor or monitoring system measurement values. Calculate the mean of the reference method values. Using data from the automated data acquisition and handling system, calculate the arithmetic differences between the reference method and monitor measurement data sets. Then calculate the arithmetic mean of the difference, the standard deviation, the confidence coefficient, and the monitor or monitoring system relative accuracy using the following procedures and equations.

Calculate the arithmetic mean of the differences of a data set as follows:

Calculate the standard deviation, S, of a data set as follows:

Calculate the confidence coefficient (one-tailed), cc, of a data set as follows.

Calculate the relative accuracy of a data set using the following equation.

Analyze the relative accuracy test audit data from the reference method tests for NO-diluent continuous emissions monitoring system as follows.

If C, the NOconcentration, is in ppm, multiply it by 1.194 x 10(lb/dscf)/ppm to convert it to units of lb/dscf. If Cis in mg/dscm, multiply it by 6.24 x 10(lb/dscf)/(mg/dscm) to convert it to lb/dscf. Then, use the diluent (Oor CO) reference method results for the run and the appropriate F or Ffactor from table 1 in appendix F of this part to convert Cfrom lb/dscf to lb/mmBtu units. Use the equations and procedure in section 3 of appendix F to this part, as appropriate.

For each test run in a data set, calculate the average NOemission rate (in lb/mmBtu), by means of the data acquisition and handling system, during the time period of the test run. Tabulate the results as shown in example Figure 4.

Use the equations and procedures in section 7.3 above to calculate the relative accuracy for the NOcontinuous emission monitoring system. In using equation A-7, "d" is, for each run, the difference between the NOemission rate values (in lb/mmBtu) obtained from the reference method data and the NOcontinuous emission monitoring system.

Test the following relative accuracy test audit data sets for bias: SOpollutant concentration monitors; flow monitors; NOconcentration monitoring systems used to determine NOmass emissions, as defined in 75.71(a)(2); and NO-diluent CEMS using the procedures outlined in sections 7.6.1 through 7.6.5 of this appendix. For multiple-load flow RATAs, perform a bias test at each load level designated as normal under section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix.

Calculate the arithmetic mean of the differences of the data set using Equation A-7 of this appendix. To calculate bias for an SOor NOpollutant concentration monitor, "d" is, for each paired data point, the difference between the SOor NOconcentration value (in ppm) obtained from the reference method and the monitor. To calculate bias for a flow monitor, "d" is, for each paired data point, the difference between the flow rate values (in scfh) obtained from the reference method and the monitor. To calculate bias for a NO-diluent continuous emission monitoring system, "d" is, for each paired data point, the difference between the NOemission rate values (in lb/mmBtu) obtained from the reference method and the monitoring system.

Calculate the standard deviation, S, of the data set using equation A-8.

Calculate the confidence coefficient, cc, of the data set using equation A-9.

If, for the relative accuracy test audit data set being tested, the mean difference, d, is less than or equal to the absolute value of the confidence coefficient, | cc |, the monitor or monitoring system has passed the bias test. If the mean difference, d, is greater than the absolute value of the confidence coefficient, &#x221A; cc &#x221A;, the monitor or monitoring system has failed to meet the bias test requirement.

(a) If the monitor or monitoring system fails to meet the bias test requirement, adjust the value obtained from the monitor using the following equation:
