
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix A to Part 75 - Specifications and Test Procedures
###### e.g.,

(c) For monitoring systems with dual ranges, perform the relative accuracy test on the range normally used for measuring emissions. For units with add-on SOor NOcontrols that operate continuously rather than seasonally, or for units that need a dual range to record high concentration "spikes" during startup conditions, the low range is considered normal. However, for some dual span units (for units that use fuel switching or for which the emission controls are operated seasonally), provided that both monitor ranges are connected to a common probe and sample interface, either of the two measurement ranges may be considered normal; in such cases, perform the RATA on the range that is in use at the time of the scheduled test. If the low and high measurement ranges are connected to separate sample probes and interfaces, RATA testing on both ranges is required.

(d) Record monitor or monitoring system output from the data acquisition and handling system.

(e) Complete each single-load relative accuracy test audit within a period of 168 consecutive unit operating hours, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter (or, for CEMS installed on common stacks or bypass stacks, 168 consecutive stack operating hours, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter). For 2-level and 3-level flow monitor RATAs, complete all of the RATAs at all levels, to the extent practicable, within a period of 168 consecutive unit (or stack) operating hours; however, if this is not possible, up to 720 consecutive unit (or stack) operating hours may be taken to complete a multiple-load flow RATA.

(f) The status of emission data from the CEMS prior to and during the RATA test period shall be determined as follows:

(1) For the initial certification of a CEMS, data from the monitoring system are considered invalid until all certification tests, including the RATA, have been successfully completed, unless the conditional data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) are used. When the procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) are followed, the words "initial certification" apply instead of "recertification," and complete all of the initial certification tests by the applicable deadline in § 75.4, rather than within the time periods specified in § 75.20(b)(3)(iv) for the individual tests.

(2) For the routine quality assurance RATAs required by section 2.3.1 of appendix B to this part, use the data validation procedures in section 2.3.2 of appendix B to this part.

(3) For recertification RATAs, use the data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3).

(4) For quality assurance RATAs of non-redundant backup monitoring systems, use the data validation procedures in §§ 75.20(d)(2)(v) and (vi).

(5) For RATAs performed during and after the expiration of a grace period, use the data validation procedures in sections 2.3.2 and 2.3.3, respectively, of appendix B to this part.

(6) For all other RATAs, use the data validation procedures in section 2.3.2 of appendix B to this part.

(g) For each SOor COemissions concentration monitor, each flow monitor, each COor Odiluent monitor used to determine heat input, each NOconcentration monitoring system used to determine NOmass emissions, as defined in § 75.71(a)(2), each moisture monitoring system, and each NO-diluent CEMS, calculate the relative accuracy, in accordance with section 7.3 or 7.4 of this appendix, as applicable. In addition (except for CO, O, or moisture monitors), test for bias and determine the appropriate bias adjustment factor, in accordance with sections 7.6.4 and 7.6.5 of this appendix, using the data from the relative accuracy test audits.

(a) Perform the required relative accuracy test audits for each SOor COemissions concentration monitor, each COor Odiluent monitor used to determine heat input, each NO-diluent CEMS, and each NOconcentration monitoring system used to determine NOmass emissions, as defined in § 75.71(a)(2), at the normal load level or normal operating level for the unit (or combined units, if common stack), as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of this appendix. If two load levels or operating levels have been designated as normal, the RATAs may be done at either load (or operating) level.
