
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### 1,1

(2) The linearity check may be done after performing only the routine or non-routine calibration adjustments described in section 2.1.3 of this appendix at the various calibration gas levels (zero, low, mid or high), but no other corrective maintenance, repair, re-linearization or reprogramming of the monitor. Trial gas injection runs may be performed after the calibration adjustments and additional adjustments within the allowable limits in section 2.1.3 of this appendix may be made prior to the linearity check, as necessary, to optimize the performance of the monitor. The trial gas injections need not be reported, provided that they meet the specification for trial gas injections in § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(E)(). However, if, for any trial injection, the specification in § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(E)() is not met, the trial injection shall be counted as an aborted linearity check.

(3) The linearity check may be done after repair, corrective maintenance or reprogramming of the monitor. In this case, the monitor shall be considered out-of-control from the hour in which the repair, corrective maintenance or reprogramming is commenced until the linearity check has been passed. Alternatively, the data validation procedures and associated timelines in §§ 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (ix) may be followed upon completion of the necessary repair, corrective maintenance, or reprogramming. If the procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) are used, the words "quality assurance" apply instead of the word "recertification".

(c) Once a linearity check has been commenced, the test shall be done hands-off. That is, no adjustments of the monitor are permitted during the linearity test period, other than the routine calibration adjustments following daily calibration error tests, as described in section 2.1.3 of this appendix. If a routine daily calibration error test is performed and passed just prior to a linearity test (or during a linearity test period) and a mathematical correction factor is automatically applied by the DAHS, the correction factor shall be applied to all subsequent data recorded by the monitor, including the linearity test data.

(d) If a daily calibration error test is failed during a linearity test period, prior to completing the test, the linearity test must be repeated. Data from the monitor are invalidated prospectively from the hour of the failed calibration error test until the hour of completion of a subsequent successful calibration error test. The linearity test shall not be commenced until the monitor has successfully completed a calibration error test.

(e) An out-of-control period occurs when a linearity test is failed (i.e., when the error in linearity at any of the three concentrations in the quarterly linearity check (or any of the six concentrations, when both ranges of a single analyzer with a dual range are tested) exceeds the applicable specification in section 3.2 of appendix A to this part) or when a linearity test is aborted due to a problem with the monitor or monitoring system. For a NO-diluent continuous emission monitoring system, the system is considered out-of-control if either of the component monitors exceeds the applicable specification in section 3.2 of appendix A to this part or if the linearity test of either component is aborted due to a problem with the monitor. The out-of-control period begins with the hour of the failed or aborted linearity check and ends with the hour of completion of a satisfactory linearity check following corrective action and/or monitor repair, unless the option in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to use the data validation procedures and associated timelines in § 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (ix) has been selected, in which case the beginning and end of the out-of-control period shall be determined in accordance with §§ 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(A) and (B). For a dual-range analyzer, "hands-off" linearity checks must be passed on both measurement scales to end the out-of-control period. Note that a monitor shall not be considered out-of-control when a linearity test is aborted for a reason unrelated to the monitor's performance (e.g., a forced unit outage).

(f) No more than four successive calendar quarters shall elapse after the quarter in which a linearity check of a monitor or monitoring system (or range of a monitor or monitoring system) was last performed without a subsequent linearity test having been conducted. If a linearity test has not been completed by the end of the fourth calendar quarter since the last linearity test, then the linearity test must be completed within a 168 unit operating hour or stack operating hour "grace period" (as provided in section 2.2.4 of this appendix) following the end of the fourth successive elapsed calendar quarter, or data from the CEMS (or range) will become invalid.

(g) An out-of-control period also occurs when a flow monitor sample line leak is detected. The out-of-control period begins with the hour of the failed leak check and ends with the hour of a satisfactory leak check following corrective action.

(h) For each monitoring system, report the results of all completed and partial linearity tests that affect data validation (i.e., all completed, passed linearity checks; all completed, failed linearity checks; and all linearity checks aborted due to a problem with the monitor, including trial gas injections counted as failed test attempts under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or under § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(F)), in the quarterly report required under § 75.64. Note that linearity attempts which are aborted or invalidated due to problems with the reference calibration gases or due to operational problems with the affected unit(s) need not be reported. Such partial tests do not affect the validation status of emission data recorded by the monitor. A record of all linearity tests, trial gas injections and test attempts (whether reported or not) must be kept on-site as part of the official test log for each monitoring system.

(i) The results of any certification, recertification, diagnostic, or quality assurance test required under this part may not be used to validate the emissions data required under this part, if the test is performed using EPA Protocol gas that was not from an EPA Protocol gas production site participating in the PGVP on the date the gas was procured either by the tester or by a reseller that sold to the tester the unaltered EPA Protocol gas, except as provided in § 75.21(g)(7) or if the cylinder(s) are analyzed by an independent laboratory and shown to meet the requirements of section 5.1.4(b) of appendix A to this part.

(a) When a required linearity test or flow monitor leak check has not been completed by the end of the QA operating quarter in which it is due or if, due to infrequent operation of a unit or infrequent use of a required high range of a monitor or monitoring system, four successive calendar quarters have elapsed after the quarter in which a linearity check of a monitor or monitoring system (or range) was last performed without a subsequent linearity test having been done, the owner or operator has a grace period of 168 consecutive unit operating hours, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter (or, for monitors installed on common stacks or bypass stacks, 168 consecutive stack operating hours, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter) in which to perform a linearity test or leak check of that monitor or monitoring system (or range). The grace period begins with the first unit or stack operating hour following the calendar quarter in which the linearity test was due. Data validation during a linearity or leak check grace period shall be done in accordance with the applicable provisions in section 2.2.3 of this appendix.

(b) If, at the end of the 168 unit (or stack) operating hour grace period, the required linearity test or leak check has not been completed, data from the monitoring system (or range) shall be invalid, beginning with the first unit operating hour following the expiration of the grace period. Data from the monitoring system (or range) remain invalid until the hour of completion of a subsequent successful hands-off linearity test or leak check of the monitor or monitoring system (or range). Note that when a linearity test or a leak check is conducted within a grace period for the purpose of satisfying the linearity test or leak check requirement from a previous QA operating quarter, the results of that linearity test or leak check may only be used to meet the linearity check or leak check requirement of the previous quarter, not the quarter in which the missed linearity test or leak check is completed.
