
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### Applicability and methodology.

(a)Unless exempted from the flow-to-load ratio test under section 7.8 of appendix A to this part, the owner or operator shall, for each flow rate monitoring system installed on each unit, common stack or multiple stack, evaluate the flow-to-load ratio quarterly, i.e., for each QA operating quarter (as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter). At the end of each QA operating quarter, the owner or operator shall use Equation B-1 to calculate the flow-to-load ratio for every hour during the quarter in which: the unit (or combination of units, for a common stack) operated within +/-10.0 percent of L, the average load during the most recent normal-load flow RATA; and a quality-assured hourly average flow rate was obtained with a certified flow rate monitor. Alternatively, for the reasons stated in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(6) of this section, the owner or operator may exclude from the data analysis certain hours within +/-10.0 percent of Land may calculate Rvalues for only the remaining hours.

(1) In Equation B-1, the owner or operator may use either bias-adjusted flow rates or unadjusted flow rates, provided that all of the ratios are calculated the same way. For a common stack, Lshall be the sum of the hourly operating loads of all units that discharge through the stack. For a unit that discharges its emissions through multiple stacks or that monitors its emissions in multiple breechings, Qwill be either the combined hourly volumetric flow rate for all of the stacks or ducts (if the test is done on a unit basis) or the hourly flow rate through each stack individually (if the test is performed separately for each stack). For a unit with a multiple stack discharge configuration consisting of a main stack and a bypass stack, each of which has a certified flow monitor (e.g., a unit with a wet SOscrubber), calculate the hourly flow-to-load ratios separately for each stack. Round off each value of Rto two decimal places.

(2) Alternatively, the owner or operator may calculate the hourly gross heat rates (GHR) in lieu of the hourly flow-to-load ratios. The hourly GHR shall be determined only for those hours in which quality-assured flow rate data and diluent gas (COor O) concentration data are both available from a certified monitor or monitoring system or reference method. If this option is selected, calculate each hourly GHR value as follows:

(3) In Equation B-1a, the owner or operator may either use bias-adjusted flow rates or unadjusted flow rates in the calculation of (Heat Input), provided that all of the heat input rate values are determined in the same manner.

(4) The owner or operator shall evaluate the calculated hourly flow-to-load ratios (or gross heat rates) as follows. A separate data analysis shall be performed for each primary and each redundant backup flow rate monitor used to record and report data during the quarter. Each analysis shall be based on a minimum of 168 acceptable recorded hourly average flow rates (i.e., at loads within +/-10 percent of L). When two RATA load levels are designated as normal, the analysis shall be performed at the higher load level, unless there are fewer than 168 acceptable data points available at that load level, in which case the analysis shall be performed at the lower load level. If, for a particular flow monitor, fewer than 168 acceptable hourly flow-to-load ratios (or GHR values) are available at any of the load levels designated as normal, a flow-to-load (or GHR) evaluation is not required for that monitor for that calendar quarter.

(5) For each flow monitor, use Equation B-2 in this appendix to calculate E, the absolute percentage difference between each hourly Rvalue and R, the reference value of the flow-to-load ratio, as determined in accordance with section 7.7 of appendix A to this part. Note that Rshall always be based upon the most recent normal-load RATA, even if that RATA was performed in the calendar quarter being evaluated.

(6) Equation B-2 shall be used in a consistent manner. That is, use Rand Rif the flow-to-load ratio is being evaluated, and use (GHR)and (GHR)if the gross heat rate is being evaluated. Finally, calculate E, the arithmetic average of all of the hourly Evalues. The owner or operator shall report the results of each quarterly flow-to-load (or gross heat rate) evaluation, as determined from Equation B-2, in the electronic quarterly report required under ยง 75.64.
