
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### 2.1.1.2 Off-line Daily Calibration Error Tests.

Daily calibrations may be performed while the unit is not operating (i.e., "off-line") and may be used to validate data for a monitoring system that meets the following conditions:

(1) An initial demonstration test of the monitoring system is successfully completed and the results are reported in the quarterly report required under ยง 75.64 of this part. The initial demonstration test, hereafter called the "off-line calibration demonstration", consists of an off-line calibration error test followed by an on-line calibration error test. Both the off-line and on-line portions of the off-line calibration demonstration must meet the calibration error performance specification in section 3.1 of appendix A of this part. Upon completion of the off-line portion of the demonstration, the zero and upscale monitor responses may be adjusted, but only toward the true values of the calibration gases or reference signals used to perform the test and only in accordance with the routine calibration adjustment procedures specified in the quality control program required under section 1 of appendix B to this part. Once these adjustments are made, no further adjustments may be made to the monitoring system until after completion of the on-line portion of the off-line calibration demonstration. Within 26 clock hours of the completion hour of the off-line portion of the demonstration, the monitoring system must successfully complete the first attempted calibration error test, i.e., the on-line portion of the demonstration.

(2) For each monitoring system that has passed the off-line calibration demonstration, off-line calibration error tests may be used on a limited basis to validate data, in accordance with paragraph (2) in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix.

Perform the daily flow monitor interference checks specified in section 2.2.2.2 of appendix A of this part while the unit is in operation at normal, stable conditions.

(a) In addition to the daily calibration error tests required under section 2.1.1 of this appendix, a calibration error test of a monitor shall be performed in accordance with section 2.1.1 of this appendix, as follows: whenever a daily calibration error test is failed; whenever a monitoring system is returned to service following repair or corrective maintenance that could affect the monitor's ability to accurately measure and record emissions data; or after making certain calibration adjustments, as described in this section. Except in the case of the routine calibration adjustments described in this section, data from the monitor are considered invalid until the required additional calibration error test has been successfully completed.

(b) Routine calibration adjustments of a monitor are permitted after any successful calibration error test. These routine adjustments shall be made so as to bring the monitor readings as close as practicable to the known tag values of the calibration gases or to the actual value of the flow monitor reference signals. An additional calibration error test is required following routine calibration adjustments where the monitor's calibration has been physically adjusted (e.g., by turning a potentiometer) to verify that the adjustments have been made properly. An additional calibration error test is not required, however, if the routine calibration adjustments are made by means of a mathematical algorithm programmed into the data acquisition and handling system. The EPA recommends that routine calibration adjustments be made, at a minimum, whenever the daily calibration error exceeds the limits of the applicable performance specification in appendix A to this part for the pollutant concentration monitor, COor Omonitor, or flow monitor.

(c) Additional (non-routine) calibration adjustments of a monitor are permitted prior to (but not during) linearity checks and RATAs and at other times, provided that an appropriate technical justification is included in the quality control program required under section 1 of this appendix. The allowable non-routine adjustments are as follows. The owner or operator may physically adjust the calibration of a monitor (e.g., by means of a potentiometer), provided that the post-adjustment zero and upscale responses of the monitor are within the performance specifications of the instrument given in section 3.1 of appendix A to this part. An additional calibration error test is required following such adjustments to verify that the monitor is operating within the performance specifications at both the zero and upscale calibration levels.

(a) An out-of-control period occurs when the calibration error of an SOor NOpollutant concentration monitor exceeds 5.0 percent of the span value, when the calibration error of a COor Omonitor (including Omonitors used to measure COemissions or percent moisture) exceeds 1.0 percent Oor CO, or when the calibration error of a flow monitor exceeds 6.0 percent of the span value, which is twice the applicable specification of appendix A to this part. Notwithstanding, a differential pressure-type flow monitor for which the calibration error exceeds 6.0 percent of the span value shall not be considered out-of-control if |R-A|, the absolute value of the difference between the monitor response and the reference value in Equation A-6 of appendix A to this part, is <0.02 inches of water. In addition, an SOor NOmonitor for which the calibration error exceeds 5.0 percent of the span value shall not be considered out-of-control if |R-A| in Equation A-6 does not exceed 5.0 ppm (for span values &#x2264;50 ppm), or if |R-A|; does not exceed 10.0 ppm (for span values >50 ppm, but &#x2264;200 ppm). The out-of-control period begins upon failure of the calibration error test and ends upon completion of a successful calibration error test. Note, that if a failed calibration, corrective action, and successful calibration error test occur within the same hour, emission data for that hour recorded by the monitor after the successful calibration error test may be used for reporting purposes, provided that two or more valid readings are obtained as required by ยง 75.10. A NO-diluent CEMS is considered out-of-control if the calibration error of either component monitor exceeds twice the applicable performance specification in appendix A to this part. Emission data shall not be reported from an out-of-control monitor.

(b) An out-of-control period also occurs whenever interference of a flow monitor is identified. The out-of-control period begins with the hour of completion of the failed interference check and ends with the hour of completion of an interference check that is passed.

(c) The results of any certification, recertification, diagnostic, or quality assurance test required under this part may not be used to validate the emissions data required under this part, if the test is performed using EPA Protocol gas from a production site that is not participating in the PGVP, except as provided in ยง 75.21(g)(7) or if the cylinder(s) are analyzed by an independent laboratory and shown to meet the requirements of section 5.1.4(b) of appendix A to this part.

When a monitoring system passes a daily assessment (i.e., daily calibration error test or daily flow interference check), data from that monitoring system are prospectively validated for 26 clock hours (i.e., 24 hours plus a 2-hour grace period) beginning with the hour in which the test is passed, unless another assessment (i.e. a daily calibration error test, an interference check of a flow monitor, a quarterly linearity check, a quarterly leak check, or a relative accuracy test audit) is failed within the 26-hour period.
