
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### 2.1.5.2 Daily Assessment Start-Up Grace Period.

For the purpose of quality assuring data with respect to a daily assessment (i.e. a daily calibration error test or a flow interference check), a start-up grace period may apply when a unit begins to operate after a period of non-operation. The start-up grace period for a daily calibration error test is independent of the start-up grace period for a daily flow interference check. To qualify for a start-up grace period for a daily assessment, there are two requirements:

(1) The unit must have resumed operation after being in outage for 1 or more hours (i.e., the unit must be in a start-up condition) as evidenced by a change in unit operating time from zero in one clock hour to an operating time greater than zero in the next clock hour.

(2) For the monitoring system to be used to validate data during the grace period, the previous daily assessment of the same kind must have been passed on-line within 26 clock hours prior to the last hour in which the unit operated before the outage. In addition, the monitoring system must be in-control with respect to quarterly and semi-annual or annual assessments.

If both of the above conditions are met, then a start-up grace period of up to 8 clock hours applies, beginning with the first hour of unit operation following the outage. During the start-up grace period, data generated by the monitoring system are considered quality-assured. For each monitoring system, a start-up grace period for a calibration error test or flow interference check ends when either: (1) a daily assessment of the same kind (i.e., calibration error test or flow interference check) is performed; or (2) 8 clock hours have elapsed (starting with the first hour of unit operation following the outage), whichever occurs first.

Record and tabulate all calibration error test data according to month, day, clock-hour, and magnitude in either ppm, percent volume, or scfh. Program monitors that automatically adjust data to the corrected calibration values (e.g., microprocessor control) to record either: (1) The unadjusted concentration or flow rate measured in the calibration error test prior to resetting the calibration, or (2) the magnitude of any adjustment. Record the following applicable flow monitor interference check data: (1) Sample line/sensing port pluggage, and (2) malfunction of each RTD, transceiver, or equivalent.

For each primary and redundant backup monitor or monitoring system, perform the following quarterly assessments. This requirement is applies as of the calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the monitor or continuous emission monitoring system is provisionally certified.

Unless a particular monitor (or monitoring range) is exempted under this paragraph or under section 6.2 of appendix A to this part, perform a linearity check, in accordance with the procedures in section 6.2 of appendix A to this part, for each primary and redundant backup SO, and NOx pollutant concentration monitor and each primary and redundant backup COor Omonitor (including Omonitors used to measure COemissions or to continuously monitor moisture) at least once during each QA operating quarter, as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter. For units using both a low and high span value, a linearity check is required only on the range(s) used to record and report emission data during the QA operating quarter. Conduct the linearity checks no less than 30 days apart, to the extent practicable. The data validation procedures in section 2.2.3(e) of this appendix shall be followed.

For differential pressure flow monitors, perform a leak check of all sample lines (a manual check is acceptable) at least once during each QA operating quarter. For this test, the unit does not have to be in operation. Conduct the leak checks no less than 30 days apart, to the extent practicable. If a leak check is failed, follow the applicable data validation procedures in section 2.2.3(g) of this appendix.

(a) A linearity check shall not be commenced if the monitoring system is operating out-of-control with respect to any of the daily or semiannual quality assurance assessments required by sections 2.1 and 2.3 of this appendix or with respect to the additional calibration error test requirements in section 2.1.3 of this appendix.

(b) Each required linearity check shall be done according to paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section:

(1) The linearity check may be done "cold," i.e., with no corrective maintenance, repair, calibration adjustments, re-linearization or reprogramming of the monitor prior to the test.
