
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### 2.1.5.1 Data Invalidation with Respect to Daily Assessments.

The following specific rules apply to the invalidation of data with respect to daily assessments:

(1) Data from a monitoring system are invalid, beginning with the first hour following the expiration of a 26-hour data validation period or beginning with the first hour following the expiration of an 8-hour start-up grace period (as provided under section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix), if the required subsequent daily assessment has not been conducted.

(2) For a monitor that has passed the off-line calibration demonstration, a combination of on-line and off-line calibration error tests may be used to validate data from the monitor, as follows. For a particular unit (or stack) operating hour, data from a monitor may be validated using a successful off-line calibration error test if: (a) An on-line calibration error test has been passed within the previous 26 unit (or stack) operating hours; and (b) the 26 clock hour data validation window for the off-line calibration error test has not expired. If either of these conditions is not met, then the data from the monitor are invalid with respect to the daily calibration error test requirement. Data from the monitor shall remain invalid until the appropriate on-line or off-line calibration error test is successfully completed so that both conditions (a) and (b) are met.

(3) For units with two measurement ranges (low and high) for a particular parameter, when separate analyzers are used for the low and high ranges, a failed or expired calibration on one of the ranges does not affect the quality-assured data status on the other range. For a dual-range analyzer (i.e., a single analyzer with two measurement scales), a failed calibration error test on either the low or high scale results in an out-of-control period for the monitor. Data from the monitor remain invalid until corrective actions are taken and "hands-off" calibration error tests have been passed on both ranges. However, if the most recent calibration error test on the high scale was passed but has expired, while the low scale is up-to-date on its calibration error test requirements (or vice-versa), the expired calibration error test does not affect the quality-assured status of the data recorded on the other scale.
