
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### e.g.,

(b) If a problem with the flow monitor is identified through the investigation (including the need to re-linearize the monitor by changing the polynomial coefficients or K factor(s)), data from the monitor are considered invalid back to the first unit operating hour after the end of the calendar quarter for which Ewas above the applicable limit. If the option to use conditional data validation was selected under section 2.2.5(c)(8) of this appendix, all conditionally valid data shall be invalidated, back to the first unit operating hour after the end of the calendar quarter for which Ewas above the applicable limit. Corrective actions shall be taken. All corrective actions (non-routine maintenance, repairs, major component replacements, re-linearization of the monitor, etc.) shall be documented in the operation and maintenance records for the monitor. The owner or operator then shall either complete the abbreviated flow-to-load test in section 2.2.5.3 of this appendix, or, if the corrective action taken has required relinearization of the flow monitor, shall perform a 3-load RATA. The conditional data validation procedures in ยง 75.20(b)(3) may be applied to the 3-load RATA.

Perform a single-load RATA (at a load designated as normal under section 6.5.2.1 of appendix A to this part) of each flow monitor for which Eis outside of the applicable limit. If the RATA is passed hands-off, in accordance with section 2.3.2(c) of this appendix, no further action is required and the out-of-control period for the monitor ends at the date and hour of completion of a successful RATA, unless the option to use conditional data validation was selected under section 2.2.5(c)(8) of this appendix. In that case, all conditionally valid data from the monitor are considered to be quality-assured, back to the first unit operating hour following the end of the calendar quarter for which the Evalue was above the applicable limit. If the RATA is failed, all data from the monitor shall be invalidated, back to the first unit operating hour following the end of the calendar quarter for which the Evalue was above the applicable limit. Data from the monitor remain invalid until the required RATA has been passed. Alternatively, following a failed RATA and corrective actions, the conditional data validation procedures of ยง 75.20(b)(3) may be used until the RATA has been passed. If the corrective actions taken following the failed RATA included adjustment of the polynomial coefficients or K-factor(s) of the flow monitor, a 3-level RATA is required, except as otherwise specified in section 2.3.1.3 of this appendix.

(a) The following abbreviated flow-to-load test may be performed after any documented repair, component replacement, or other corrective maintenance to a flow monitor (except for changes affecting the linearity of the flow monitor, such as adjusting the flow monitor coefficients or K factor(s)) to demonstrate that the repair, replacement, or other maintenance has not significantly affected the monitor's ability to accurately measure the stack gas volumetric flow rate. Data from the monitoring system are considered invalid from the hour of commencement of the repair, replacement, or maintenance until either the hour in which the abbraviated flow-to-load test is passed, or the hour in which a probationary calibration error test is passed following completion of the repair, replacement, or maintenance and any associated adjustments to the monitor. If the latter option is selected, the abbreviated flow-to-load test shall be completed within 168 unit operating hours of the probationary calibration error test (or, for peaking units, within 30 unit operating days, if that is less restrictive). Data from the monitor are considered to be conditionally valid (as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter), beginning with the hour of the probationary calibration error test.

(b) Operate the unit(s) in such a way as to reproduce, as closely as practicable, the exact conditions at the time of the most recent normal-load flow RATA. To achieve this, it is recommended that the load be held constant to within +/-10.0 percent of the average load during the RATA and that the diluent gas (COor O) concentration be maintained within +/-0.5 percent COor Oof the average diluent concentration during the RATA. For common stacks, to the extent practicable, use the same combination of units and load levels that were used during the RATA. When the process parameters have been set, record a minimum of six and a maximum of 12 consecutive hourly average flow rates, using the flow monitor(s) for which Ewas outside the applicable limit. For peaking units, a minimum of three and a maximum of 12 consecutive hourly average flow rates are required. Also record the corresponding hourly load values and, if applicable, the hourly diluent gas concentrations. Calculate the flow-to-load ratio (or GHR) for each hour in the test hour period, using Equation B-1 or B-1a. Determine Efor each hourly flow-to-load ratio (or GHR), using Equation B-2 of this appendix and then calculate E, the arithmetic average of the Evalues.

(c) The results of the abbreviated flow-to-load test shall be considered acceptable, and no further action is required if the value of Edoes not exceed the applicable limit specified in section 2.2.5 of this appendix. All conditionally valid data recorded by the flow monitor shall be considered quality-assured, beginning with the hour of the probationary calibration error test that preceded the abbreviated flow-to-load test (if applicable). However, if Eis outside the applicable limit, all conditionally valid data recorded by the flow monitor (if applicable) shall be considered invalid back to the hour of the probationary calibration error test that preceded the abbreviated flow-to-load test, and a single-load RATA is required in accordance with section 2.2.5.2 of this appendix. If the flow monitor must be re-linearized, however, a 3-load RATA is required.

For each primary and redundant backup monitoring system, perform relative accuracy assessments either semiannually or annually, as specified in section 2.3.1.1 or 2.3.1.2 of this appendix, for the type of test and the performance achieved. This requirement applies as of the calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which the monitoring system is provisionally certified. A summary chart showing the frequency with which a relative accuracy test audit must be performed, depending on the accuracy achieved, is located at the end of this appendix in Figure 2.
