
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### Recalculation of E

(c). If the owner or operator did not exclude any hours within +/-10 percent of Lfrom the original data analysis and chooses to recalculate E, the flow rates for the following hours are considered non-representative and may be excluded from the data analysis:

(1) Any hour in which the type of fuel combusted was different from the fuel burned during the most recent normal-load RATA. For purposes of this determination, the type of fuel is different if the fuel is in a different state of matter (i.e., solid, liquid, or gas) than is the fuel burned during the RATA or if the fuel is a different classification of coal (e.g., bituminous versus sub-bituminous). Also, for units that co-fire different types of fuels, if the reference RATA was done while co-firing, then hours in which a single fuel was combusted may be excluded from the data analysis as different fuel hours (and vice-versa for co-fired hours, if the reference RATA was done while combusting only one type of fuel);

(2) For a unit that is equipped with an SOscrubber and which always discharges its flue gases to the atmosphere through a single stack, any hour in which the SOscrubber was bypassed;

(3) Any hour in which "ramping" occurred, i.e., the hourly load differed by more than +/-15.0 percent from the load during the preceding hour or the subsequent hour;

(4) For a unit with a multiple stack discharge configuration consisting of a main stack and a bypass stack, any hour in which the flue gases were discharged through both stacks;

(5) If a normal-load flow RATA was performed and passed during the quarter being analyzed, any hour prior to completion of that RATA; and

(6) If a problem with the accuracy of the flow monitor was discovered during the quarter and was corrected (as evidenced by passing the abbreviated flow-to-load test in section 2.2.5.3 of this appendix), any hour prior to completion of the abbreviated flow-to-load test.

(7) After identifying and excluding all non-representative hourly data in accordance with paragraphs (c)(1) through (6) of this section, the owner or operator may analyze the remaining data a second time. At least 168 representative hourly ratios or GHR values must be available to perform the analysis; otherwise, the flow-to-load (or GHR) analysis is not required for that monitor for that calendar quarter.

(8) If, after re-analyzing the data, Emeets the applicable limit in paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section, no further action is required. If, however, Eis still above the applicable limit, data from the monitor shall be declared out-of-control, beginning with the first unit operating hour following the quarter in which Eexceeded the applicable limit. Alternatively, if a probationary calibration error test is performed and passed according to ยง 75.20(b)(3)(ii), data from the monitor may be declared conditionally valid following the quarter in which Eexceeded the applicable limit. The owner or operator shall then either implement Option 1 in section 2.2.5.1 of this appendix or Option 2 in section 2.2.5.2 of this appendix.

Within 14 unit operating days of the end of the calendar quarter for which the Evalue is above the applicable limit, investigate and troubleshoot the applicable flow monitor(s). Evaluate the results of each investigation as follows:

(a) If the investigation fails to uncover a problem with the flow monitor, a RATA shall be performed in accordance with Option 2 in section 2.2.5.2 of this appendix.
