
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### see

(e) For a RATA performed using the option in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section, if the RATA is failed (that is, if the relative accuracy exceeds the applicable specification in section 3.3 of appendix A to this part) or if the RATA is aborted prior to completion due to a problem with the CEMS, then the CEMS is out-of-control and all emission data from the CEMS are invalidated prospectively from the hour in which the RATA is failed or aborted. Data from the CEMS remain invalid until the hour of completion of a subsequent RATA that meets the applicable specification in section 3.3 of appendix A to this part. If the option in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to use the data validation procedures and associated timelines in §§ 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through(b)(3)(ix) has been selected, the beginning and end of the out-of-control period shall be determined in accordance with § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(A) and (B). Note that when a RATA is aborted for a reason other than monitoring system malfunction (paragraph (h) of this section), this does not trigger an out-of-control period for the monitoring system.

(f) For a 2-level or 3-level flow RATA, if, at any load level (or operating level), a RATA is failed or aborted due to a problem with the flow monitor, the RATA at that load level (or operating level) must be repeated. The flow monitor is considered out-of-control and data from the monitor are invalidated from the hour in which the test is failed or aborted and remain invalid until the passing of a RATA at the failed load level (or operating level), unless the option in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to use the data validation procedures and associated timelines in § 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) has been selected, in which case the beginning and end of the out-of-control period shall be determined in accordance with § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(A) and (B). Flow RATA(s) that were previously passed at the other load level(s) (or operating level(s)) do not have to be repeated unless the flow monitor must be re-linearized following the failed or aborted test. If the flow monitor is re-linearized, a subsequent 3-load (or 3-level) RATA is required, except as otherwise provided in section 2.3.1.3(c)(5) of this appendix.

(g) Data validation for failed RATAs for a COpollutant concentration monitor (or an Omonitor used to measure COemissions), a NOpollutant concentration monitor, and a NO-diluent monitoring system shall be done according to paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section:

(1) For a COpollutant concentration monitor (or an Omonitor used to measure COemissions) which also serves as the diluent component in a NO-diluent monitoring system, if the CO(or O) RATA is failed, then both the CO(or O) monitor and the associated NO-diluent system are considered out-of-control, beginning with the hour of completion of the failed CO(or O) monitor RATA, and continuing until the hour of completion of subsequent hands-off RATAs which demonstrate that both systems have met the applicable relative accuracy specifications in sections 3.3.2 and 3.3.3 of appendix A to this part, unless the option in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to use the data validation procedures and associated timelines in § 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) has been selected, in which case the beginning and end of the out-of-control period shall be determined in accordance with § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(A) and (B).

(2) This paragraph (g)(2) applies only to a NOpollutant concentration monitor that serves both as the NOcomponent of a NOconcentration monitoring system (to measure NOmass emissions) and as the NOcomponent in a NO-diluent monitoring system (to measure NOemission rate in lb/mmBtu). If the RATA of the NOconcentration monitoring system is failed, then both the NOconcentration monitoring system and the associated NO-diluent monitoring system are considered out-of-control, beginning with the hour of completion of the failed NOconcentration RATA, and continuing until the hour of completion of subsequent hands-off RATAs which demonstrate that both systems have met the applicable relative accuracy specifications in sections 3.3.2 and 3.3.7 of appendix A to this part, unless the option in paragraph (b)(3) of this section to use the data validation procedures and associated timelines in § 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (b)(3)(ix) has been selected, in which case the beginning and end of the out-of-control period shall be determined in accordance with § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(A) and (B).

(h) For each monitoring system, report the results of all completed and partial RATAs that affect data validation (i.e., all completed, passed RATAs; all completed, failed RATAs; and all RATAs aborted due to a problem with the CEMS, including trial RATA runs counted as failed test attempts under paragraph (b)(2) of this section or under § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(F)) in the quarterly report required under § 75.64. Note that RATA attempts that are aborted or invalidated due to problems with the reference method or due to operational problems with the affected unit(s) need not be reported. Such runs do not affect the validation status of emission data recorded by the CEMS. However, a record of all RATAs, trial RATA runs and RATA attempts (whether reported or not) must be kept on-site as part of the official test log for each monitoring system.

(i) Each time that a hands-off RATA of an SOpollutant concentration monitor, a NOdiluent monitoring system, a NOconcentration monitoring system, or a flow monitor is passed, perform a bias test in accordance with section 7.6.4 of appendix A to this part. Apply the appropriate bias adjustment factor to the reported SO, NO, or flow rate data, in accordance with section 7.6.5 of appendix A to this part.

(j) Failure of the bias test does not result in the monitoring system being out-of-control.

(k) The results of any certification, recertification, diagnostic, or quality assurance test required under this part may not be used to validate the emissions data required under this part, if the test is performed using EPA Protocol gas from a production site that is not participating in the PGVP, except as provided in § 75.21(g)(7) or if the cylinder(s) are analyzed by an independent laboratory and shown to meet the requirements of section 5.1.4(b) of appendix A to this part.

(a) The owner or operator has a grace period of 720 consecutive unit operating hours, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter (or, for CEMS installed on common stacks or bypass stacks, 720 consecutive stack operating hours, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter), in which to complete the required RATA for a particular CEMS whenever:

(1) A required RATA has not been performed by the end of the QA operating quarter in which it is due; or

(2) A required 3-load flow RATA has not been performed by the end of the calendar quarter in which it is due; or

(3) For a unit which is conditionally exempted under § 75.21(a)(7) from the SORATA requirements of this part, an SORATA has not been completed by the end of the calendar quarter in which the annual usage of fuel(s) with a sulfur content higher than very low sulfur fuel (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter) exceeds 480 hours; or

(4) Eight successive calendar quarters have elapsed, following the quarter in which a RATA was last performed, without a subsequent RATA having been done, due either to infrequent operation of the unit(s) or frequent combustion of very low sulfur fuel, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter (SOmonitors, only), or a combination of these factors.

(b) Except for SOmonitoring system RATAs, the grace period shall begin with the first unit (or stack) operating hour following the calendar quarter in which the required RATA was due. For SOmonitor RATAs, the grace period shall begin with the first unit (or stack) operating hour in which fuel with a total sulfur content higher than that of very low sulfur fuel (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter) is burned in the unit(s), following the quarter in which the required RATA is due. Data validation during a RATA grace period shall be done in accordance with the applicable provisions in section 2.3.2 of this appendix.

(c) If, at the end of the 720 unit (or stack) operating hour grace period, the RATA has not been completed, data from the monitoring system shall be invalid, beginning with the first unit operating hour following the expiration of the grace period. Data from the CEMS remain invalid until the hour of completion of a subsequent hands-off RATA. The deadline for the next test shall be either two QA operating quarters (if a semiannual RATA frequency is obtained) or four QA operating quarters (if an annual RATA frequency is obtained) after the quarter in which the RATA is completed, not to exceed eight calendar quarters.

(d) When a RATA is done during a grace period in order to satisfy a RATA requirement from a previous quarter, the deadline for the next RATA shall determined as follows:

(1) If the grace period RATA qualifies for a reduced, (i.e., annual), RATA frequency the deadline for the next RATA shall be set at three QA operating quarters after the quarter in which the grace period test is completed.

(2) If the grace period RATA qualifies for the standard, (i.e., semiannual), RATA frequency the deadline for the next RATA shall be set at two QA operating quarters after the quarter in which the grace period test is completed.

(3) Notwithstanding these requirements, no more than eight successive calendar quarters shall elapse after the quarter in which the grace period test is completed, without a subsequent RATA having been conducted.

Except as otherwise specified in section 7.6.5 of appendix A to this part, if an SOpollutant concentration monitor, a flow monitor, a NO-diluent CEMS, or a NOconcentration monitoring system used to calculate NOmass emissions fails the bias test specified in section 7.6 of appendix A to this part, use the bias adjustment factor given in Equations A-11 and A-12 of appendix A to this part or the allowable alternative BAF specified in section 7.6.5(b) of appendix A of this part, to adjust the monitored data.

(a) When a significant change is made to a monitoring system such that recertification of the monitoring system is required in accordance with § 75.20(b), a recertification test (or tests) must be performed to ensure that the CEMS continues to generate valid data. In all recertifications, a RATA will be one of the required tests; for some recertifications, other tests will also be required. A recertification test may be used to satisfy the quality assurance test requirement of this appendix. For example, if, for a particular change made to a CEMS, one of the required recertification tests is a linearity check and the linearity check is successful, then, unless another such recertification event occurs in that same QA operating quarter, it would not be necessary to perform an additional linearity test of the CEMS in that quarter to meet the quality assurance requirement of section 2.2.1 of this appendix. For this reason, EPA recommends that owners or operators coordinate component replacements, system upgrades, and other events that may require recertification, to the extent practicable, with the periodic quality assurance testing required by this appendix. When a quality assurance test is done for the dual purpose of recertification and routine quality assurance, the applicable data validation procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) shall be followed.

(b) Except as provided in section 2.3.3 of this appendix, whenever a passing RATA of a gas monitor is performed, or a passing 2-load (or 2-level) RATA or a passing 3-load (or 3-level) RATA of a flow monitor is performed (irrespective of whether the RATA is done to satisfy a recertification requirement or to meet the quality assurance requirements of this appendix, or both), the RATA frequency (semi-annual or annual) shall be established based upon the date and time of completion of the RATA and the relative accuracy percentage obtained. For 2-load (or 2-level) and 3-load (or 3-level) flow RATAs, use the highest percentage relative accuracy at any of the loads (or levels) to determine the RATA frequency. The results of a single-load (or single-level) flow RATA may be used to establish the RATA frequency when the single-load (or single-level) flow RATA is specifically required under section 2.3.1.3(b) of this appendix or when the single-load (or single-level) RATA is allowed under section 2.3.1.3(c) of this appendix for a unit that has operated at one load level (or operating level) for ≥85.0 percent of the time since the last annual flow RATA. No other single-load (or single-level) flow RATA may be used to establish an annual RATA frequency; however, a 2-load or 3-load (or a 2-level or 3-level) flow RATA may be performed at any time or in place of any required single-load (or single-level) RATA, in order to establish an annual RATA frequency.

Affected units may be subject to relative accuracy test audits at any time. If a monitor or continuous emission monitoring system fails the relative accuracy test during the audit, the monitor or continuous emission monitoring system shall be considered to be out-of-control beginning with the date and time of completion of the audit, and continuing until a successful audit test is completed following corrective action. If a monitor or monitoring system fails the bias test during an audit, use the bias adjustment factor given by equations A-11 and A-12 in appendix A to this part to adjust the monitored data. Apply this adjustment factor from the date and time of completion of the audit until the date and time of completion of a relative accuracy test audit that does not show bias.
