
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix C to Part 75 - Missing Data Estimation Procedures
########### Appendix D to Part 75 - Optional SOEmissions Data Protocol for Gas-Fired and Oil-Fired Units

1.1 This protocol may be used in lieu of continuous SOpollutant concentration and flow monitors for the purpose of determining hourly SOmass emissions and heat input from: gas-fired units, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter, or oil-fired units, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter. Section 2.1 of this appendix provides procedures for measuring oil or gaseous fuel flow using a fuel flowmeter, section 2.2 of this appendix provides procedures for conducting oil sampling and analysis to determine sulfur content and gross calorific value (GCV) of fuel oil, and section 2.3 of this appendix provides procedures for determining the sulfur content and GCV of gaseous fuels.

1.2 Pursuant to the procedures in § 75.20, complete all testing requirements to certify use of this protocol in lieu of a flow monitor and an SOcontinuous emission monitoring system. Complete all testing requirements no later than the applicable deadline specified in § 75.4. Apply to the Administrator for initial certification to use this protocol no later than 45 days after the completion of all certification tests.

For each hour when the unit is combusting fuel, measure and record the flow rate of fuel combusted by the unit, except as provided in section 2.1.4 of this appendix. Measure the flow rate of fuel with an in-line fuel flowmeter, and automatically record the data with a data acquisition and handling system, except as provided in section 2.1.4 of this appendix.

2.1.1 Measure the flow rate of each fuel entering and being combusted by the unit. If, on an annual basis, more than 5.0 percent of the fuel from the main pipe is diverted from the unit without being burned and that diversion occurs downstream of the fuel flowmeter, an additional in-line fuel flowmeter is required to account for the unburned fuel. In this case, record the flow rate of each fuel combusted by the unit as the difference between the flow measured in the pipe leading to the unit and the flow in the pipe diverting fuel away from the unit. However, the additional fuel flowmeter is not required if, on an annual basis, the total amount of fuel diverted away from the unit, expressed as a percentage of the total annual fuel usage by the unit is demonstrated to be less than or equal to 5.0 percent. The owner or operator may make this demonstration in the following manner:

2.1.1.1 For existing units with fuel usage data from fuel flowmeters, if data are submitted from a previous year demonstrating that the total diverted yearly fuel does not exceed 5% of the total fuel used; or

2.1.1.2 For new units which do not have historical data, if a letter is submitted signed by the designated representative certifying that, in the future, the diverted fuel will not exceed 5.0% of the total annual fuel usage; or

2.1.1.3 By using a method approved by the Administrator under § 75.66(d).

2.1.2 Install and use fuel flowmeters meeting the requirements of this appendix in a pipe going to each unit, or install and use a fuel flowmeter in a common pipe header (as defined in § 72.2). However, the use of a fuel flowmeter in a common pipe header and the provisions of sections 2.1.2.1 and 2.1.2.2 of this appendix shall not apply to any unit that is using the provisions of subpart H of this part to monitor, record, and report NOmass emissions under a State or federal NOmass emission reduction program, unless both of the following are true: all of the units served by the common pipe are affected units, and all of the units have similar efficiencies. When a fuel flowmeter is installed in a common pipe header, proceed as follows:

2.1.2.1 Measure the fuel flow rate in the common pipe, and combine SOmass emissions (Acid Rain Program units only) for the affected units for recordkeeping and compliance purposes; and

2.1.2.2 Apportion the heat input rate measured at the common pipe to the individual units, using Equation F-21a, F-21b, or F-21d in appendix F to this part.

2.1.3 For a gas-fired unit or an oil-fired unit that continuously or frequently combusts a supplemental fuel for flame stabilization or safety purposes, measure the flow rate of the supplemental fuel with a fuel flowmeter meeting the requirements of this appendix.

For an oil-fired unit that uses gas solely for start-up or burner ignition, a gas-fired unit that uses oil solely for start-up or burner ignition, or an oil-fired unit that uses a different grade of oil solely for start-up or burner ignition, a fuel flowmeter for the start-up fuel is permitted but not required. Estimate the volume of oil combusted for each start-up or ignition either by using a fuel flowmeter or by using the dimensions of the storage container and measuring the depth of the fuel in the storage container before and after each start-up or ignition. A fuel flowmeter used solely for start-up or ignition fuel is not subject to the calibration requirements of sections 2.1.5 and 2.1.6 of this appendix. Gas combusted solely for start-up or burner ignition does not need to be measured separately.

A gas or oil flowmeter used for commercial billing of natural gas or oil may be used to measure, record, and report hourly fuel flow rate. A gas or oil flowmeter used for commercial billing of natural gas or oil is not required to meet the certification requirements of section 2.1.5 of this appendix or the quality assurance requirements of section 2.1.6 of this appendix under the following circumstances:

(a) The gas or oil flowmeter is used for commercial billing under a contract, provided that the company providing the gas or oil under the contract and each unit combusting the gas or oil do not have any common owners and are not owned by subsidiaries or affiliates of the same company;

(b) The designated representative reports hourly records of gas or oil flow rate, heat input rate, and emissions due to combustion of natural gas or oil;

(c) The designated representative also reports hourly records of heat input rate for each unit, if the gas or oil flowmeter is on a common pipe header, consistent with section 2.1.2 of this appendix;

(d) The designated representative reports hourly records directly from the gas or oil flowmeter used for commercial billing if these records are the values used, without adjustment, for commercial billing, or reports hourly records using the missing data procedures of section 2.4 of this appendix if these records are not the values used, without adjustment, for commercial billing; and

(e) The designated representative identifies the gas or oil flowmeter in the unit's monitoring plan.

The designated representative of a unit that is restricted by its Federal, State or local permit to combusting a particular fuel only during emergencies where the primary fuel is not available is exempt from certifying a fuel flowmeter for use during combustion of the emergency fuel. During any hour in which the emergency fuel is combusted, report the hourly heat input to be the maximum rated heat input of the unit for the fuel. Use the maximum potential sulfur content for the fuel (from Table D-6 of this appendix) and the fuel flow rate corresponding to the maximum hourly heat input to calculate the hourly SOmass emission rate, using Equations D-2 through D-4 (as applicable). Alternatively, if a certified fuel flowmeter is available for the emergency fuel, you may use the measured hourly fuel flow rates in the calculations. Also, if daily samples or weekly composite samples (fuel oil, only) of the fuel's total sulfur content, GCV, and (if applicable) density are taken during the combustion of the emergency fuel, as described in section 2.2 or 2.3 of this appendix, the sample results may be used to calculate the hourly SOemissions and heat input rates, in lieu of using maximum potential values. The designated representative shall also provide notice under § 75.61(a)(6) for each period when the emergency fuel is combusted.

For the purposes of initial certification, each fuel flowmeter used to meet the requirements of this protocol shall meet a flowmeter accuracy of 2.0 percent of the upper range value (i.e. maximum fuel flow rate measurable by the flowmeter) across the range of fuel flow rate to be measured at the unit. Flowmeter accuracy may be determined under section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix for initial certification in any of the following ways (as applicable): by design (orifice, nozzle, and venturi-type flowmeters, only) or by measurement under laboratory conditions; by the manufacturer; by an independent laboratory; or by the owner or operator. Flowmeter accuracy may also be determined under section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix by in-line comparison against a reference flowmeter.

2.1.5.1 Use the procedures in the following standards to verify flowmeter accuracy or design, as appropriate to the type of flowmeter: ASME MFC-3M-2004, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi; ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 1997), Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters; American Gas Association Report No. 3, Orifice Metering of Natural Gas and Other Related Hydrocarbon Fluids Part 1: General Equations and Uncertainty Guidelines (October 1990 Edition), Part 2: Specification and Installation Requirements (February 1991 Edition), and Part 3: Natural Gas Applications (August 1992 edition) (excluding the modified flow-calculation method in part 3); Section 8, Calibration from American Gas Association Transmission Measurement Committee Report No. 7: Measurement of Gas by Turbine Meters (Second Revision, April 1996); ASME-MFC-5M-1985 (Reaffirmed 1994), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flowmeters; ASME MFC-6M-1998, Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters; ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992), Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles; ISO 8316: 1987(E) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits-Method by Collection of the Liquid in a Volumetric Tank; American Petroleum Institute (API) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 4-Proving Systems, Section 2-Pipe Provers (Provers Accumulating at Least 10,000 Pulses), Second Edition, March 2001, Section 3-Small Volume Provers, First Edition, July 1988, Reaffirmed October 1993, and Section 5-Master-Meter Provers, Second Edition, May 2000; American Petroleum Institute (API) Manual of Petroleum Measurement Standards, Chapter 22-Testing Protocol, Section 2-Differential Pressure Flow Measurement Devices, First Edition, August 2005; or ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001), Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method, for all other flowmeter types (all incorporated by reference under § 75.6 of this part). The Administrator may also approve other procedures that use equipment traceable to National Institute of Standards and Technology standards. Document such procedures, the equipment used, and the accuracy of the procedures in the monitoring plan for the unit, and submit a petition signed by the designated representative under § 75.66(c). If the flowmeter accuracy exceeds 2.0 percent of the upper range value, the flowmeter does not qualify for use under this part.

2.1.5.2 (a) Alternatively, determine the flowmeter accuracy of a fuel flowmeter used for the purposes of this part by comparing it to the measured flow from a reference flowmeter which has been either designed according to the specifications of American Gas Association Report No. 3 or ASME MFC-3M-1989, as cited in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix, or tested for accuracy during the previous 365 days, using a standard listed in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix or other procedure approved by the Administrator under § 75.66 (all standards incorporated by reference under § 75.6). Any secondary elements, such as pressure and temperature transmitters, must be calibrated immediately prior to the comparison. Perform the comparison over a period of no more than seven consecutive unit operating days. Compare the average of three fuel flow rate readings over 20 minutes or longer for each meter at each of three different flow rate levels. The three flow rate levels shall correspond to:

(1) Normal full unit operating load,

(2) Normal minimum unit operating load,

(3) A load point approximately equally spaced between the full and minimum unit operating loads, and

(b) Calculate the flowmeter accuracy at each of the three flow levels using the following equation:

(c) Notwithstanding the requirement for calibration of the reference flowmeter within 365 days prior to an accuracy test, when an in-place reference meter or prover is used for quality assurance under section 2.1.6 of this appendix, the reference meter calibration requirement may be waived if, during the previous in-place accuracy test with that reference meter, the reference flowmeter and the flowmeter being tested agreed to within +/-1.0 percent of each other at all levels tested. This exception to calibration and flowmeter accuracy testing requirements for the reference flowmeter shall apply for periods of no longer than five consecutive years (i.e., 20 consecutive calendar quarters).

2.1.5.3 If the flowmeter accuracy exceeds the specification in section 2.1.5 of this appendix, the flowmeter does not qualify for use for this appendix. Either recalibrate the flowmeter until the flowmeter accuracy is within the performance specification, or replace the flowmeter with another one that is demonstrated to meet the performance specification. Substitute for fuel flow rate using the missing data procedures in section 2.4.2 of this appendix until quality-assured fuel flow data become available.

2.1.5.4 For purposes of initial certification, when a flowmeter is tested against a reference fuel flow rate (i.e., fuel flow rate from another fuel flowmeter under section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix or flow rate from a procedure performed according to a standard incorporated by reference under section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix), report the results of flowmeter accuracy tests in a manner consistent with Table D-1.

(a) Test the accuracy of each fuel flowmeter prior to use under this part and at least once every four fuel flowmeter QA operating quarters, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter, thereafter. Notwithstanding these requirements, no more than 20 successive calendar quarters shall elapse after the quarter in which a fuel flowmeter was last tested for accuracy without a subsequent flowmeter accuracy test having been conducted. Test the flowmeter accuracy more frequently if required by manufacturer specifications.

(b) Except for orifice-, nozzle-, and venturi-type flowmeters, perform the required flowmeter accuracy testing using the procedures in either section 2.1.5.1 or section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix. Each fuel flowmeter must meet the accuracy specification in section 2.1.5 of this appendix.

(c) For orifice-, nozzle-, and venturi-type flowmeters, either perform the required flowmeter accuracy testing using the procedures in section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix or perform a transmitter accuracy test for the initial certification and once every four fuel flowmeter QA operating quarters thereafter. Perform a primary element visual inspection for the initial certification and once every 12 calendar quarters thereafter, according to the procedures in sections 2.1.6.1 through 2.1.6.4 of this appendix for periodic quality assurance.

(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, if the procedures of section 2.1.7 (fuel flow-to-load test) of this appendix are performed during each fuel flowmeter QA operating quarter, subsequent to a required flowmeter accuracy test or (if applicable) transmitter accuracy test and primary element inspection, those procedures may be used to meet the requirement for periodic quality assurance testing for a period of up to 20 calendar quarters from the previous accuracy test or (if applicable) transmitter accuracy test and primary element inspection.

(e) When accuracy testing of the orifice, nozzle, or venturi meter is performed according to section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix, record the information displayed in Table D-1 in this section. At a minimum, record the overall accuracy results for the fuel flowmeter at the three flow rate levels specified in section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix.

(f) Report the results of all fuel flowmeter accuracy tests, transmitter or transducer accuracy tests, and primary element inspections, as applicable, in the emissions report for the quarter in which the quality assurance tests are performed, using the electronic format specified by the Administrator under § 75.64.

(a) Calibrate the differential pressure transmitter or transducer, static pressure transmitter or transducer, and temperature transmitter or transducer, as applicable, using equipment that has a current certificate of traceability to NIST standards. Check the calibration of each transmitter or transducer by comparing its readings to that of the NIST traceable equipment at least once at each of the following levels: the zero-level and at least two other upscale levels (e.g., "mid" and "high"), such that the full range of transmitter or transducer readings corresponding to normal unit operation is represented. For temperature transmitters, the zero and upscale levels may correspond to fixed reference points, such as the freezing point or boiling point of water.

(b) Calculate the accuracy of each transmitter or transducer at each level tested, using the following equation:

(c) If each transmitter or transducer meets an accuracy of 1.0 percent of its full-scale range at each level tested, the fuel flowmeter accuracy of 2.0 percent is considered to be met at all levels. If, however, one or more of the transmitters or transducers does not meet an accuracy of 1.0 percent of full-scale at a particular level, then the owner or operator may demonstrate that the fuel flowmeter meets the total accuracy specification of 2.0 percent at that level by using one of the following alternative methods. If, at a particular level, the sum of the individual accuracies of the three transducers is less than or equal to 4.0 percent, the fuel flowmeter accuracy specification of 2.0 percent is considered to be met for that level. Or, if at a particular level, the total fuel flowmeter accuracy is 2.0 percent or less, when calculated in accordance with Part 1 of American Gas Association Report No. 3, General Equations and Uncertainty Guidelines, the flowmeter accuracy requirement is considered to be met for that level.

(a) Record the accuracy of the orifice, nozzle, or venturi meter or its individual transmitters or transducers and keep this information in a file at the site or other location suitable for inspection.

(b)-(c) [Reserved]

If, during a transmitter or transducer accuracy test conducted according to section 2.1.6.1 of this appendix, the flowmeter accuracy specification of 2.0 percent is not met at any of the levels tested, repair or replace transmitter(s) or transducer(s) as necessary until the flowmeter accuracy specification has been achieved at all levels. (Note that only transmitters or transducers which are repaired or replaced need to be re-tested; however, the re-testing is required at all three measurement levels, to ensure that the flowmeter accuracy specification is met at each level). The fuel flowmeter is "out-of-control" and data from the flowmeter are considered invalid, beginning with the date and hour of the failed accuracy test and continuing until the date and hour of completion of a successful transmitter or transducer accuracy test at all levels. In addition, if, during normal operation of the fuel flowmeter, one or more transmitters or transducers malfunction, data from the fuel flowmeter shall be considered invalid from the hour of the transmitter or transducer failure until the hour of completion of a successful 3-level transmitter or transducer accuracy test. During fuel flowmeter out-of-control periods, provide data from another fuel flowmeter that meets the requirements of § 75.20(d) and section 2.1.5 of this appendix, or substitute for fuel flow rate using the missing data procedures in section 2.4.2 of this appendix. Record and report test data and results, consistent with sections 2.1.6.1 and 2.1.6.2 of this appendix and § 75.59.

(a) Conduct a visual inspection of the orifice, nozzle, or venturi meter at least once every twelve calendar quarters. Notwithstanding this requirement, the procedures of section 2.1.7 of this appendix may be used to reduce the inspection frequency of the orifice, nozzle, or venturi meter to at least once every twenty calendar quarters. The inspection may be performed using a baroscope. If the visual inspection is failed (if the orifice, nozzle, or venturi meter has become damaged or corroded), then:

(1) Replace the primary element with another primary element meeting the requirements of American Gas Association Report No. 3 or ASME MFC-3M-1989, as cited in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix (both standards incorporated by reference under § 75.6). If the primary element size is changed, also calibrate the transmitters or transducers, consistent with the new primary element size;

(2) Replace the primary element with another primary element, and demonstrate that the overall flowmeter accuracy meets the accuracy specification in section 2.1.5 of this appendix, using the procedures of section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix; or

(3) Restore the damaged or corroded primary element to "as new" condition; determine the overall accuracy of the flowmeter, using either the specifications of American Gas Association Report No. 3 or ASME MFC-3M-1989, as cited in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix (both standards incorporated by reference under § 75.6); and retest the transmitters or transducers prior to providing quality-assured data from the flowmeter.

(b) Data from the fuel flowmeter are considered invalid, beginning with the date and hour of a failed visual inspection and continuing until the date and hour when:

(1) The damaged or corroded primary element is replaced with another primary element meeting the requirements of American Gas Association Report No. 3 or ASME MFC-3M-1989, as cited in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix (both standards incorporated by reference under § 75.6) and, if applicable, the transmitters have been successfully recalibrated;

(2) The damaged or corroded primary element is replaced, and the overall accuracy of the flowmeter is demonstrated to meet the accuracy specification in section 2.1.5 of this appendix, using the procedures of section 2.1.5.2 of this appendix; or

(3) The restored primary element is installed to meet the requirements of American Gas Association Report No. 3 or ASME MFC-3M-1989, as cited in section 2.1.5.1 of this appendix (both standards incorporated by reference under § 75.6) and its transmitters or transducers are retested to meet the accuracy specification in section 2.1.6.1 of this appendix.

(c) During each period of invalid fuel flowmeter data described in paragraph (b) of this section, provide data from another fuel flowmeter that meets the requirements of § 75.20(d) and section 2.1.5 of this appendix, or substitute for fuel flow rate using the missing data procedures in section 2.4.2 of this appendix.

The procedures of this section may be used as an optional supplement to the quality assurance procedures in section 2.1.5.1, 2.1.5.2, 2.1.6.1, or 2.1.6.4 of this appendix when conducting periodic quality assurance testing of a certified fuel flowmeter. Note, however, that these procedures may not be used unless the 168-hour baseline data requirement of section 2.1.7.1 of this appendix has been met. If, following a flowmeter accuracy test or (if applicable) a flowmeter transmitter test and primary element inspection, the procedures of this section are performed during each subsequent fuel flowmeter QA operating quarter, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter (excluding the quarter(s) in which the baseline data are collected), then these procedures may be used to meet the requirement for periodic quality assurance for a period of up to 20 calendar quarters from the previous periodic quality assurance procedure(s) performed according to sections 2.1.5.1, 2.1.5.2, or 2.1.6.1 through 2.1.6.4 of this appendix. The procedures of this section are not required for any quarter in which a flowmeter accuracy test or (if applicable) a transmitter accuracy test and a primary element inspection, are conducted. Notwithstanding the requirements of § 75.57(a), when using the procedures of this section, keep records of the test data and results from the previous flowmeter accuracy test under section 2.1.5.1 or 2.1.5.2 of this appendix, records of the test data and results from the previous transmitter or transducer accuracy test under section 2.1.6.1 of this appendix for orifice-, nozzle-, and venturi-type fuel flowmeters, and records of the previous visual inspection of the primary element required under section 2.1.6.4 of this appendix for orifice-, nozzle-, and venturi-type fuel flowmeters until the next flowmeter accuracy test, transmitter accuracy test, or visual inspection is performed, even if the previous flowmeter accuracy test, transmitter accuracy test, or visual inspection was performed more than three years previously.

(a) Determine R, the baseline value of the ratio of fuel flow rate to unit load, following each successful periodic quality assurance procedure performed according to sections 2.1.5.1, 2.1.5.2, or 2.1.6.1 and 2.1.6.4 of this appendix. Establish a baseline period of data consisting, at a minimum, of 168 hours of quality-assured fuel flowmeter data. Baseline data collection shall begin with the first hour of fuel flowmeter operation following completion of the most recent quality assurance procedure(s), during which only the fuel measured by the fuel flowmeter is combusted (e.g., only gas, only residual oil, or only diesel fuel is combusted by the unit). During the baseline data collection period, the owner or operator may exclude as non-representative any hour in which the unit is "ramping" up or down, (i.e., the load during the hour differs by more than 15.0 percent from the load in the previous or subsequent hour) and may exclude any hour in which the unit load is in the lower 25.0 percent of the range of operation, as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of appendix A to this part (unless operation in this lower 25.0 percent of the range is considered normal for the unit). The baseline data must be obtained no later than the end of the fourth calendar quarter following the calendar quarter of the most recent quality assurance procedure for that fuel flowmeter. For orifice-, nozzle-, and venturi-type fuel flowmeters, if the fuel flow-to-load ratio is to be used as a supplement both to the transmitter accuracy test under section 2.1.6.1 of this appendix and to primary element inspections under section 2.1.6.4 of this appendix, then the baseline data must be obtained after both procedures are completed and no later than the end of the fourth calendar quarter following the calendar quarter in which both procedures were completed. From these 168 (or more) hours of baseline data, calculate the baseline fuel flow rate-to-load ratio as follows:

(b) In Equation D-1b, for a fuel flowmeter installed on a common pipe header, Lis the sum of the operating loads of all units that received fuel through the common pipe header during the baseline period, divided by the total number of hours of fuel flow rate data collected during the baseline period. For a unit that receives the same type of fuel through multiple pipes, Qis the sum of the fuel flow rates during the baseline period from all of the pipes, divided by the total number of hours of fuel flow rate data collected during the baseline period. Round off the value of Rto the nearest tenth.

(c) Alternatively, a baseline value of the gross heat rate (GHR) may be determined in lieu of R. The baseline value of the GHR, GHR, shall be determined as follows:

(d) Report the current value of R(or GHR) and the completion date of the associated quality assurance procedure in each electronic quarterly report required under § 75.64.
