
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix C to Part 75 - Missing Data Estimation Procedures
####### e.g.,

(e) If a unit co-fires different fuels (oil and natural gas) as its normal mode of operation, the gross heat rate option in paragraph (c) of this section may be used to determine a value of (GHR), as follows. Derive the baseline data during co-fired hours. Then, use Equation D-1c to calculate (GHR), making sure that each hourly unit heat input rate used to calculate (Heat Input)includes the contribution of each type of fuel.

(a) Evaluate the fuel flow rate-to-load ratio (or GHR) for each fuel flowmeter QA operating quarter, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter. At the end of each fuel flowmeter QA operating quarter, use Equation D-1d in this appendix to calculate R, the hourly fuel flow-to-load ratio, for every quality-assured hourly average fuel flow rate obtained with a certified fuel flowmeter. Alternatively, the owner or operator may exclude non-representative hours from the data analysis, as described in section 2.1.7.3 of this appendix, prior to calculating the values of R.

(b) For a fuel flowmeter installed on a common pipe header, Lh shall be the sum of the hourly operating loads of all units that receive fuel through the common pipe header. For a unit that receives the same type of fuel through multiple pipes, Qwill be the sum of the fuel flow rates from all of the pipes. Round off each value of Rto the nearest tenth.

(c) Alternatively, calculate the hourly gross heat rates (GHR) in lieu of the hourly flow-to-load ratios. If this option is selected, calculate each hourly GHR value as follows:

(d) Evaluate the calculated flow rate-to-load ratios (or gross heat rates) as follows.

(1) Perform a separate data analysis for each fuel flowmeter system following the procedures of this section. Base each analysis on a minimum of 168 hours of data. If, for a particular fuel flowmeter system, fewer than 168 hourly flow-to-load ratios (or GHR values) are available, or, if the baseline data collection period is still in progress at the end of the quarter and fewer than four calendar quarters have elapsed since the quarter in which the last successful fuel flowmeter system accuracy test was performed, a flow-to-load (or GHR) evaluation is not required for that flowmeter system for that calendar quarter. A one-quarter extension of the deadline for the next fuel flowmeter system accuracy test may be claimed for a quarter in which there is insufficient hourly data available to analyze or a quarter that ends with the baseline data collection period still in progress.

(2) For a unit that normally co-fires different types of fuel (e.g., oil and natural gas), include the contribution of each type of fuel in the value of (Heat Input), when using Equation D-1e.

(e) For each hourly flow-to-load ratio or GHR value, calculate the percentage difference (percent D) from the baseline fuel flow-to-load ratio using Equation D-1f.

(f) Consistently use Rand Rin Equation D-1f if the fuel flow-to-load ratio is being evaluated, and consistently use (GHR)and (GHR)in Equation D-1f if the gross heat rate is being evaluated.

(g) Next, determine the arithmetic average of all of the hourly percent difference (percent D) values using Equation D-1g, as follows:

(h) When the quarterly average load value used in the data analysis is greater than 50 MWe (or 500 klb steam per hour), the results of a quarterly fuel flow rate-to-load (or GHR) evaluation are acceptable and no further action is required if the quarterly average percentage difference (E) is no greater than 10.0 percent. When the arithmetic average of the hourly load values used in the data analysis is &#x2264;50 MWe (or 500 klb steam per hour), the results of the analysis are acceptable if the value of Eis no greater than 15.0 percent. For units that normally co-fire different types of fuel, if the GHR option is used, apply the test results to each fuel flowmeter system used during the quarter.

(a) If Eis outside the limits in section 2.1.7.2(h) of this appendix, the owner or operator may re-examine the hourly fuel flow rate-to-load ratios (or GHRs) that were used for the data analysis and may identify and exclude fuel flow-to-load ratios or GHR values for any non-representative hours, provided that such data exclusions were not previously made under section 2.1.7.2(a) of this appendix. Specifically, the Ror (GHR)values for the following hours may be considered non-representative:

(1) For units that do not normally co-fire fuels, any hour in which the unit combusted another fuel in addition to the fuel measured by the fuel flowmeter being tested; or

(2) Any hour for which the load differed by more than +/-15.0 percent from the load during either the preceding hour or the subsequent hour; or

(3) For units that normally co-fire different fuels, any hour in which the unit burned only one type of fuel; or

(4) Any hour for which the unit load was in the lower 25.0 percent of the range of operation, as defined in section 6.5.2.1 of appendix A to this part (unless operation in the lower 25.0 percent of the range is considered normal for the unit).

(b) After identifying and excluding all non-representative hourly fuel flow-to-load ratios or GHR values, analyze the quarterly fuel flow rate-to-load data a second time. If fewer than 168 hourly fuel flow-to-load ratio or GHR values remain after the allowable data exclusions, a fuel flow-to-load ratio or GHR analysis is not required for that quarter, and a one-quarter extension of the fuel flowmeter accuracy test deadline may be claimed.

(a) If Eis outside the applicable limit in section 2.1.7.2(h) of this appendix (after analysis using any optional data exclusions under section 2.1.7.3 of this appendix), perform transmitter accuracy tests according to section 2.1.6.1 of this appendix for orifice-, nozzle-, and venturi-type flowmeters, or perform a fuel flowmeter accuracy test, in accordance with section 2.1.5.1 or 2.1.5.2 of this appendix, for each fuel flowmeter for which Eis outside of the applicable limit. In addition, for an orifice-, nozzle-, or venturi-type fuel flowmeter, repeat the fuel flow-to-load ratio comparison of section 2.1.7.2 of this appendix using six to twelve hours of data following a passed transmitter accuracy test in order to verify that no significant corrosion has affected the primary element. If, for the abbreviated 6-to-12 hour test, the orifice-, nozzle-, or venturi-type fuel flowmeter is not able to meet the limit in section 2.1.7.2 of this appendix, then perform a visual inspection of the primary element according to section 2.1.6.4 of this appendix, and repair or replace the primary element, as necessary.

(b) Substitute for fuel flow rate, for any hour when that fuel is combusted, using the missing data procedures in section 2.4.2 of this appendix, beginning with the first hour of the calendar quarter following the quarter for which Ewas found to be outside the applicable limit and continuing until quality-assured fuel flow data become available. Following a failed flow rate-to-load or GHR evaluation, data from the flowmeter shall not be considered quality-assured until the hour in which all required flowmeter accuracy tests, transmitter accuracy tests, visual inspections and diagnostic tests have been passed. Additionally, a new value of Ror (GHR)shall be established no later than two fuel flowmeter QA operating quarters (as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter) after the quarter in which the required quality assurance tests are completed (note that for orifice-, nozzle-, or venturi-type fuel flowmeters, establish a new value of Ror (GHR)only if both a transmitter accuracy test and a primary element inspection have been performed).

Report the results of each quarterly flow rate-to-load (or GHR) evaluation, as determined from Equation D-1g, in the electronic quarterly report required under § 75.64. Table D-3 is provided as a reference on the type of information to be recorded under § 75.59 and reported under § 75.64.

Perform sampling and analysis of oil to determine the following fuel properties for each type of oil combusted by a unit: percentage of sulfur by weight in the oil; gross calorific value (GCV) of the oil; and, if necessary, the density of the oil. Use the sulfur content, density, and gross calorific value, determined under the provisions of this section, to calculate SOmass emission rate and heat input rate for each fuel using the applicable procedures of section 3 of this appendix. The designated representative may petition for reduced GCV and or density sampling under § 75.66 if the fuel combusted has a consistent and relatively non-variable GCV or density.

2.2.1 When combusting oil, use one of the following methods to sample the oil (see Table D-4): sample from the storage tank for the unit after each addition of oil to the storage tank, in accordance with section 2.2.4.2 of this appendix; or sample from the fuel lot in the shipment tank or container upon receipt of each oil delivery or from the fuel lot in the oil supplier's storage container, in accordance with section 2.2.4.3 of this appendix; or use the flow proportional sampling methodology in section 2.2.3 of this appendix; or use the daily manual sampling methodology in section 2.2.4.1 of this appendix. For purposes of this appendix, a fuel lot of oil is the mass or volume of product oil from one source (supplier or pretreatment facility), intended as one shipment or delivery (e.g., ship load, barge load, group of trucks, discrete purchase of diesel fuel through pipeline, etc.). A storage tank is a container at a plant holding oil that is actually combusted by the unit, such that no blending of any other fuel with the fuel in the storage tank occurs from the time that the fuel lot is transferred to the storage tank to the time when the fuel is combusted in the unit.

Conduct flow proportional oil sampling or continuous drip oil sampling in accordance with ASTM D4177-95 (Reapproved 2000), "Standard Practice for Automatic Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products" (incorporated by reference under § 75.6), every day the unit is combusting oil. Extract oil at least once every hour and blend into a composite sample. The sample compositing period may not exceed 7 calendar days (168 hrs). Use the actual sulfur content (and where density data are required, the actual density) from the composite sample to calculate the hourly SOmass emission rates for each operating day represented by the composite sample. Calculate the hourly heat input rates for each operating day represented by the composite sample, using the actual gross calorific value from the composite sample.

Representative oil samples may be taken from the storage tank or fuel flow line manually every day that the unit combusts oil according to ASTM ASTM D4057-95 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Practice for Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products (incorporated by reference under § 75.6 of this part). Use either the actual daily sulfur content or the highest fuel sulfur content recorded at that unit from the most recent 30 daily samples for the purpose of calculating SOemissions under section 3 of this appendix. Use either the gross calorific value measured from that day's sample or the highest GCV from the previous 30 days' samples to calculate heat input. If oil supplies with different sulfur contents are combusted on the same day, sample the highest sulfur fuel combusted that day.

Take a manual sample after each addition of oil to the storage tank. Do not blend additional fuel with the sampled fuel prior to combustion. Sample according to the single tank composite sampling procedure or all-levels sampling procedure in ASTM ASTM D4057-95 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Practice for Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products (incorporated by reference under § 75.6 of this part). Use the sulfur content and GCV value (and where required, the density) of either the most recent sample or one of the conservative assumed values described in section 2.2.4.3(c) of this appendix to calculate SOmass emission rate. Calculate heat input rate using the gross calorific value from either:

(a) The most recent oil sample taken or

(b) One of the conservative assumed values described in section 2.2.4.3(c) of this appendix. Follow the applicable provisions in section 2.2.4.3(d) of this appendix, regarding the use of assumed values.

(a) Alternatively, an oil sample may be taken from-

(1) The shipment tank or container upon receipt of each lot of fuel oil or

(2) The supplier's storage container which holds the lot of fuel oil. (Note: a supplier need only sample the storage container once for sulfur content, GCV and, where required, the density so long as the fuel sulfur content and GCV do not change and no fuel is added to the supplier's storage container.)

(b) For the purpose of this section, a lot is defined as a shipment or delivery (e.g., ship load, barge load, group of trucks, discrete purchase of diesel fuel through a pipeline, etc.) of a single fuel.

(c) Oil sampling may be performed either by the owner or operator of an affected unit, an outside laboratory, or a fuel supplier, provided that samples are representative and that sampling is performed according to either the single tank composite sampling procedure or the all-levels sampling procedure in ASTM ASTM D4057-95 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Practice for Manual Sampling of Petroleum and Petroleum Products (incorporated by reference under § 75.6 of this part). Except as otherwise provided in this section, calculate SOmass emission rate using the sulfur content (and where required, the density) from one of the two following conservative assumed values, and calculate heat input using the gross calorific value from one of the assumed values:

(1) The highest value sampled during the previous calendar year (this option is allowed for any consistent fuel which comes from a single source whether or not the fuel is supplied under a contractual agreement) or

(2) The maximum value indicated in the contract with the fuel supplier. Continue to use this assumed contract value unless and until the actual sampled sulfur content, density, or gross calorific value of a delivery exceeds the assumed value.

(d) Continue using the assumed value(s), so long as the sample results do not exceed the assumed value(s). However, if the actual sampled sulfur content, gross calorific value, or density of an oil sample is greater than the assumed value for that parameter, then, consistent with section 2.3.7 of this appendix, begin to use the actual sampled value for sulfur content, gross calorific value, or density of fuel to calculate SO2 mass emission rate or heat input rate. Consider the sampled value to be the new assumed sulfur content, gross calorific value, or density. Continue using this new assumed value to calculate SO2 mass emission rate or heat input rate unless and until: it is superseded by a higher value from an oil sample; or (if applicable) it is superseded by a new contract in which case the new contract value becomes the assumed value at the time the fuel specified under the new contract begins to be combusted in the unit; or (if applicable) both the calendar year in which the sampled value exceeded the assumed value and the subsequent calendar year have elapsed.

2.2.5 For each oil sample that is taken on-site at the affected facility, split and label the sample and maintain a portion (at least 200 cc) of it throughout the calendar year and in all cases for not less than 90 calendar days after the end of the calendar year allowance accounting period. This requirement does not apply to oil samples taken from the fuel supplier's storage container, as described in section 2.2.4.3 of this appendix. Analyze oil samples for percent sulfur content by weight in accordance with ASTM D129-00, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products (General Bomb Method), ASTM D1552-01, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products (High-Temperature Method), ASTM D2622-98, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum Products by Wavelength Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometry, ASTM D4294-98, Standard Test Method for Sulfur in Petroleum and Petroleum Products by Energy-Dispersive X-ray Fluorescence Spectrometry, or ASTM D5453-06, Standard Test Method for Determination of Total Sulfur in Light Hydrocarbons, Spark Ignition Engine Fuel, Diesel Engine Fuel, and Engine Oil by Ultraviolet Fluorescence (all incorporated by reference under § 75.6 of this part). Alternatively, the oil samples may be analyzed for percent sulfur by any consensus standard method prescribed for the affected unit under part 60 of this chapter.

2.2.6 Where the flowmeter records volumetric flow rate rather than mass flow rate, analyze oil samples to determine the density or specific gravity of the oil. Determine the density or specific gravity of the oil sample in accordance with ASTM D287-92 (Reapproved 2000), Standard Test Method for API Gravity of Crude Petroleum and Petroleum Products (Hydrometer Method), ASTM D1217-93 (Reapproved 1998), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density (Specific Gravity) of Liquids by Bingham Pycnometer, ASTM D1481-93 (Reapproved 1997), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density (Specific Gravity) of Viscous Materials by Lipkin Bicapillary Pycnometer, ASTM D1480-93 (Reapproved 1997), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density (Specific Gravity) of Viscous Materials by Bingham Pycnometer, ASTM D1298-99, Standard Test Method for Density, Relative Density (Specific Gravity), or API Gravity of Crude Petroleum and Liquid Petroleum Products by Hydrometer Method, or ASTM D4052-96 (Reapproved 2002), Standard Test Method for Density and Relative Density of Liquids by Digital Density Meter (all incorporated by reference under § 75.6 of this part). Alternatively, the oil samples may be analyzed for density or specific gravity by any consensus standard method prescribed for the affected unit under part 60 of this chapter.

2.2.7 Analyze oil samples to determine the heat content of the fuel. Determine oil heat content in accordance with ASTM D240-00, ASTM D4809-00, ASTM D5865-01a, or D5865-10 (all incorporated by reference under § 75.6) or any other procedures listed in section 5.5 of appendix F of this part. Alternatively, the oil samples may be analyzed for heat content by any consensus standard method prescribed for the affected unit under part 60 of this chapter.

2.2.8 Results from the oil sample analysis must be available no later than thirty calendar days after the sample is composited or taken. However, during an audit, the Administrator may require that the results of the analysis be available as soon as practicable, and no later than 5 business days after receipt of a request from the Administrator.

(a) Account for the hourly SOmass emissions due to combustion of gaseous fuels for each hour when gaseous fuels are combusted by the unit using the procedures in this section.

(b) The procedures in sections 2.3.1 and 2.3.2 of this appendix, respectively, may be used to determine SOmass emissions from combustion of pipeline natural gas and natural gas, as defined in § 72.2 of this chapter. The procedures in section 2.3.3 of this appendix may be used to account for SOmass emissions from any gaseous fuel combusted by a unit. For each type of gaseous fuel, the appropriate sampling frequency and the sulfur content and GCV values used for calculations of SOmass emission rates are summarized in the following Table D-5.

The owner or operator may determine the SOmass emissions from the combustion of a fuel that meets the definition of pipeline natural gas, in § 72.2 of this chapter, using the procedures of this section.

For a fuel that meets the definition of pipeline natural gas under § 72.2 of this chapter, the owner or operator may determine the SOmass emissions using either a default SOemission rate of 0.0006 lb/mmBtu and the procedures of this section, the procedures in section 2.3.2 for natural gas, or the procedures of section 2.3.3 for any gaseous fuel. For each affected unit using the default rate of 0.0006 lb/mmBtu, the owner or operator must document that the fuel combusted is actually pipeline natural gas, using the procedures in section 2.3.1.4 of this appendix.

Calculate hourly heat input rate, in mmBtu/hr, for a unit combusting pipeline natural gas, using the procedures of section 3.4.1 of this appendix. Use the measured fuel flow rate from section 2.1 of this appendix and the gross calorific value from section 2.3.4.1 of this appendix in the calculations.

For pipeline natural gas combustion, calculate the SO2 mass emission rate, in lb/hr, using Equation D-5 in section 3.3.2 of this appendix (when the default SOemission rate is used) or Equation D-4 (if daily or hourly fuel sampling is used). Then, use the calculated SOmass emission rate and the unit operating time to determine the hourly SOmass emissions from pipeline natural gas combustion, in lb, using Equation D-12 in section 3.5.1 of this appendix.

(a) A fuel may initially qualify as pipeline natural gas, if information is provided in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53, demonstrating that the definition of pipeline natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter has been met. The information must demonstrate that the fuel meets either the percent methane or GCV requirement and has a total sulfur content of 0.5 grains/100scf or less. The demonstration must be made using one of the following sources of information:

(1) The gas quality characteristics specified by a purchase contract, tariff sheet, or by a pipeline transportation contract; or

(2) Historical fuel sampling data for the previous 12 months, documenting the total sulfur content of the fuel and the GCV and/or percentage by volume of methane. The results of all sample analyses obtained by or provided to the owner or operator in the previous 12 months shall be used in the demonstration, and each sample result must meet the definition of pipeline natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter, except where the results of at least 100 daily (or more frequent) total sulfur samples are provided by the fuel supplier. In that case you may opt to convert these data to monthly averages and then if, for each month, the average total sulfur content is 0.5 grains/100 scf or less, and if the GCV or percent methane requirement is also met, the fuel qualifies as pipeline natural gas. Alternatively, the fuel qualifies as pipeline natural gas if ≥98 percent of the 100 (or more) samples have a total sulfur content of 0.5 grains/100 scf or less and if the GCV or percent methane requirement is also met; or

(3) If the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section cannot be met, a fuel may initially qualify as pipeline natural gas if at least one representative sample of the fuel is obtained and analyzed for total sulfur content and for either the gross calorific value (GCV) or percent methane, and the results of the sample analysis show that the fuel meets the definition of pipeline natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter. Use the sampling methods specified in sections 2.3.3.1.2 and 2.3.4 of this appendix. The required fuel sample may be obtained and analyzed by the owner or operator, by an independent laboratory, or by the fuel supplier. If multiple samples are taken, each sample must meet the definition of pipeline natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter.

(b) If the results of the fuel sampling under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section show that the fuel does not meet the definition of pipeline natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter, but those results are believed to be anomalous, the owner or operator may document the reasons for believing this in the monitoring plan for the unit, and may immediately perform additional sampling. In such cases, a minimum of three additional samples must be obtained and analyzed, and the results of each sample analysis must meet the definition of pipeline natural gas.

(c) If several affected units are supplied by a common source of gaseous fuel, a single sampling result may be applied to all of the units and it is not necessary to obtain a separate sample for each unit, provided that the composition of the fuel is not altered by blending or mixing it with other gaseous fuel(s) when it is transported from the sampling location to the affected units. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "other gaseous fuel(s)" excludes compounds such as mercaptans when they are added in trace quantities for safety reasons.

(d) If the results of fuel sampling and analysis under paragraph (a)(2), (a)(3), or (b) of this section show that the fuel does not qualify as pipeline natural gas, proceed as follows:

(1) If the fuel still qualifies as natural gas under section 2.3.2.4 of this appendix, re-classify the fuel as natural gas and determine the appropriate default SOemission rate for the fuel, according to section 2.3.2.1.1 of this appendix; or

(2) If the fuel does not qualify either as pipeline natural gas or natural gas, re-classify the fuel as "other gaseous fuel" and implement the procedures of section 2.3.3 of this appendix, within 180 days of the end of the quarter in which the disqualifying sample was taken. In addition, the owner or operator shall use Equation D-1h in this appendix to calculate a default SOemission rate for the fuel, based on the results of the sample analysis that exceeded 20 grains/100 scf of total sulfur, and shall use that default emission rate to report SOmass emissions under this part until section 2.3.3 of this appendix has been fully implemented.

(e) If a fuel qualifies as pipeline natural gas based on the specifications in a fuel contract or tariff sheet, no additional, on-going sampling of the fuel's total sulfur content is required, provided that the contract or tariff sheet is current, valid and representative of the fuel combusted in the unit. If the fuel qualifies as pipeline natural gas based on fuel sampling and analysis, on-going sampling of the fuel's sulfur content is required annually and whenever the fuel supply source changes. For the purposes of this paragraph (e), sampling "annually" means that at least one sample is taken in each calendar year. If the results of at least 100 daily (or more frequent) total sulfur samples have been provided by the fuel supplier since the last annual assessment of the fuel's sulfur content, the data may be used as follows to satisfy the annual sampling requirement for the current year. If this option is chosen, all of the data provided by the fuel supplier shall be used. First, convert the data to monthly averages. Then, if, for each month, the average total sulfur content is 0.5 grains/100 scf or less, and if the GCV or percent methane requirement is also met, the fuel qualifies as pipeline natural gas. Alternatively, the fuel qualifies as pipeline natural gas if the analysis of the 100 (or more) total sulfur samples since the last annual assessment shows that ≥98 percent of the samples have a total sulfur content of 0.5 grains/100 scf or less and if the GCV or percent methane requirement is also met. The effective date of the annual total sulfur sampling requirement is January 1, 2003.

(f) On-going sampling of the GCV of the pipeline natural gas is required under section 2.3.4.1 of this appendix.

(g) For units that are required to monitor and report NOmass emissions and heat input under subpart H of this part, but which are not affected units under the Acid Rain Program, the owner or operator is exempted from the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (e) of this section to document the total sulfur content of the pipeline natural gas.

The owner or operator may determine the SOmass emissions from the combustion of a fuel that meets the definition of natural gas, in § 72.2 of this chapter, using the procedures of this section.

The owner or operator may account for SOemissions either by using a default SOemission rate, as determined under section 2.3.2.1.1 of this appendix, or by daily sampling of the gas sulfur content using the procedures of section 2.3.3 of this appendix. For each affected unit using a default SOemission rate, the owner or operator must provide documentation that the fuel combusted is actually natural gas according to the procedures in section 2.3.2.4 of this appendix.

2.3.2.1.1 In lieu of daily sampling of the sulfur content of the natural gas, the owner or operator may either use the total sulfur content specified in a contract or tariff sheet as the SOdefault emission rate or may calculate the default SOemission rate based on fuel sampling results, using Equation D-1h. In Equation D-1h, the total sulfur content and GCV values shall be determined in accordance with Table D-5 of this appendix. Round off the calculated SOdefault emission rate to the nearest 0.0001 lb/mmBtu.

Calculate hourly heat input rate for natural gas combustion, in mmBtu/hr, using the procedures in section 3.4.1 of this appendix. Use the measured fuel flow rate from section 2.1 of this appendix and the gross calorific value from section 2.3.4.2 of this appendix in the calculations.

For natural gas combustion, calculate the SOmass emission rate, in lb/hr, using Equation D-5 in section 3.3.2 of this appendix, when the default SOemission rate is used. Then, use the calculated SOmass emission rate and the unit operating time to determine the hourly SOmass emissions from natural gas combustion, in lb, using Equation D-12 in section 3.5.1 of this appendix.

(a) A fuel may initially qualify as natural gas, if information is provided in the monitoring plan required under § 75.53, demonstrating that the definition of natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter has been met. The information must demonstrate that the fuel meets either the percent methane or GCV requirement and has a total sulfur content of 20.0 grains/100 scf or less. This demonstration must be made using one of the following sources of information:

(1) The gas quality characteristics specified by a purchase contract, tariff sheet, or by a transportation contract; or

(2) Historical fuel sampling data for the previous 12 months, documenting the total sulfur content of the fuel and the GCV and/or percentage by volume of methane. The results of all sample analyses obtained by or provided to the owner or operator in the previous 12 months shall be used in the demonstration, and each sample result must meet the definition of natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter; or

(3) If the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section cannot be met, a fuel may initially qualify as natural gas if at least one representative sample of the fuel is obtained and analyzed for total sulfur content and for either the gross calorific value (GCV) or percent methane, and the results of the sample analysis show that the fuel meets the definition of natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter. Use the sampling methods specified in sections 2.3.3.1.2 and 2.3.4 of this appendix. The required fuel sample may be obtained and analyzed by the owner or operator, by an independent laboratory, or by the fuel supplier. If multiple samples are taken, each sample must meet the definition of natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter.

(b) If the results of the fuel sampling under paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section show that the fuel does not meet the definition of natural gas in § 72.2 of this chapter, but those results are believed to be anomalous, the owner or operator may document the reasons for believing this in the monitoring plan for the unit, and may immediately perform additional sampling. In such cases, a minimum of three additional samples must be obtained and analyzed, and the results of each sample analysis must meet the definition of natural gas.

(c) If several affected units are supplied by a common source of gaseous fuel, a single sampling result may be applied to all of the units and it is not necessary to obtain a separate sample for each unit, provided that the composition of the fuel is not altered by blending or mixing it with other gaseous fuel(s) when it is transported from the sampling location to the affected units. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "other gaseous fuel(s)" excludes compounds such as mercaptans when they are added in trace quantities for safety reasons.

(d) If the results of fuel sampling and analysis under paragraph (a)(2), (a)(3), or (b) of this section show that the fuel does not qualify as natural gas, the owner or operator shall re-classify the fuel as "other gaseous fuel" and shall implement the procedures of section 2.3.3 of this appendix, within 180 days of the end of the quarter in which the disqualifying sample was taken. In addition, the owner or operator shall use Equation D-1h in this appendix to calculate a default SOemission rate for the fuel, based on the results of the sample analysis that exceeded 20 grains/100 scf of total sulfur, and shall use that default emission rate to report SOmass emissions under this part until section 2.3.3 of this appendix has been fully implemented.

(e) If a fuel qualifies as natural gas based on the specifications in a fuel contract or tariff sheet, no additional, on-going sampling of the fuel's total sulfur content is required, provided that the contract or tariff sheet is current, valid and representative of the fuel combusted in the unit. If the fuel qualifies as natural gas based on fuel sampling and analysis, the owner or operator shall sample the fuel for total sulfur content at least annually and when the fuel supply source changes. For the purposes of this paragraph, (e), sampling "annually" means that at least one sample is taken in each calendar year. The effective date of the annual total sulfur sampling requirement is January 1, 2003.

(f) On-going sampling of the GCV of the natural gas is required under section 2.3.4.2 of this appendix.

(g) For units that are required to monitor and report NOmass emissions and heat input under subpart H of this part, but which are not affected units under the Acid Rain Program, the owner or operator is exempted from the requirements in paragraphs (a) and (e) of this section to document the total sulfur content of the natural gas.

The owner or operator of a unit may determine SOmass emissions using this section for any gaseous fuel (including fuels such as refinery gas, landfill gas, digester gas, coke oven gas, blast furnace gas, coal-derived gas, producer gas or any other gas which may have a variable sulfur content).
