
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 75 - CONTINUOUS EMISSION MONITORING
##### Appendix B to Part 75 - Quality Assurance and Quality Control Procedures
###### 2,2

(2) The RATA may be done after performing only the routine or non-routine calibration adjustments described in section 2.1.3 of this appendix at the zero and/or upscale calibration gas levels, but no other corrective maintenance, repair, re-linearization or reprogramming of the monitoring system. Trial RATA runs may be performed after the calibration adjustments and additional adjustments within the allowable limits in section 2.1.3 of this appendix may be made prior to the RATA, as necessary, to optimize the performance of the CEMS. The trial RATA runs need not be reported, provided that they meet the specification for trial RATA runs in § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(E)(). However, if, for any trial run, the specification in § 75.20(b)(3)(vii)(E)() is not met, the trial run shall be counted as an aborted RATA attempt.

(3) The RATA may be done after repair, corrective maintenance, re-linearization or reprogramming of the monitoring system. In this case, the monitoring system shall be considered out-of-control from the hour in which the repair, corrective maintenance, re-linearization or reprogramming is commenced until the RATA has been passed. Alternatively, the data validation procedures and associated timelines in §§ 75.20(b)(3)(ii) through (ix) may be followed upon completion of the necessary repair, corrective maintenance, re-linearization or reprogramming. If the procedures in § 75.20(b)(3) are used, the words "quality assurance" apply instead of the word "recertification."

(c) Once a RATA is commenced, the test must be done hands-off. No adjustment of the monitor's calibration is permitted during the RATA test period, other than the routine calibration adjustments following daily calibration error tests, as described in section 2.1.3 of this appendix. If a routine daily calibration error test is performed and passed just prior to a RATA (or during a RATA test period) and a mathematical correction factor is automatically applied by the DAHS, the correction factor shall be applied to all subsequent data recorded by the monitor, including the RATA test data. For 2-level and 3-level flow monitor audits, no linearization or reprogramming of the monitor is permitted in between load levels.
