
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 76 - ACID RAIN NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### § 76.1 Applicability.

(a) Except as provided in paragraphs (b) through (d) of this section, the provisions apply to each coal-fired utility unit that is subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation or reduction requirement for SOunder Phase I or Phase II pursuant to sections 404, 405, or 409 of the Act.

(b) The emission limitations for NOunder this part apply to each affected coal-fired utility unit subject to section 404(d) or 409(b) of the Act on the date the unit is required to meet the Acid Rain emissions reduction requirement for SO.

(c) The provisions of this part apply to each coal-fired substitution unit or compensating unit, designated and approved as a Phase I unit pursuant to § 72.41 or § 72.43 of this chapter as follows:

(1) A coal-fired substitution unit that is designated in a substitution plan that is approved and active as of January 1, 1995 shall be treated as a Phase I coal-fired utility unit for purposes of this part. In the event the designation of such unit as a substitution unit is terminated after December 31, 1995, pursuant to § 72.41 of this chapter and the unit is no longer required to meet Phase I SOemissions limitations, the provisions of this part (including those applicable in Phase I) will continue to apply.

(2) A coal-fired substitution unit that is designated in a substitution plan that is not approved or not active as of January 1, 1995, or a coal-fired compensating unit, shall be treated as a Phase II coal-fired utility unit for purposes of this part.

(d) The provisions of this part for Phase I units apply to each coal-fired transfer unit governed by a Phase I extension plan, approved pursuant to § 72.42 of this chapter, on January 1, 1997. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a coal-fired transfer unit shall be subject to the Acid Rain emissions limitations for nitrogen oxides beginning on January 1, 1996 if, for that year, a transfer unit is allocated fewer Phase I extension reserve allowances than the maximum amount that the designated representative could have requested in accordance with § 72.42(c)(5) of this chapter (as adjusted under § 72.42(d) of this chapter) unless the transfer unit is the last unit allocated Phase I extension reserve allowances under the plan.
