
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 76 - ACID RAIN NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### § 76.4 Incorporation by reference.
###### http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a) The materials listed in this section are incorporated by reference in the sections noted. These incorporations by reference (IBR's) were approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. These materials are incorporated as they existed on the date of approval, and notice of any change in these materials will be published in theThe materials are available for purchase at the corresponding address noted below and are available for inspection at the Public Information Reference Unit, U.S. EPA, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC, and at the Library (MD-35), U.S. EPA, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(b) The following materials are available for purchase from at least one of the following addresses: American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM), 1916 Race Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103; or the University Microfilms International, 300 North Zeeb Road, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48106.

(1) ASTM D 3176-89, Standard Practice for Ultimate Analysis of Coal and Coke, IBR approved May 23, 1995 for § 76.15.

(2) ASTM D 3172-89, Standard Practice for Proximate Analysis of Coal and Coke, IBR approved May 23, 1995 for § 76.15.

(c) The following material is available for purchase from the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), 22 Law Drive, Box 2350, Fairfield, NJ 07007-2350.

(1) ASME Performance Test Code 4.2 (1991), Test Code for Coal Pulverizers, IBR approved May 23, 1995 for § 76.15.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) The following material is available for purchase from the American National Standards Institute, 11 West 42nd Street, New York, NY 10036 or from the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), Case Postale 56, CH-1211 Geneve 20, Switzerland.

(1) ISO 9931 (December, 1991) "Coal-Sampling of Pulverized Coal Conveyed by Gases in Direct Fired Coal Systems," IBR approved May 23, 1995 for § 76.15.

(2) [Reserved]
