
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 76 - ACID RAIN NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### § 76.10 Alternative emission limitations.
###### Permitting authority's action,Alternative emission limitation demonstration period.

(f)-(1)(i) The permitting authority may approve an alternative emission limitation demonstration period and demonstration period plan, provided that the requirements of this section are met to the satisfaction of the permitting authority. The permitting authority shall disapprove a demonstration period if the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section were not met during the operating period.

(ii) If the demonstration period is approved, the permitting authority will include, as part of the demonstration period, the 4 month period prior to submission of the application in the demonstration period.

(iii) The alternative emission limitation demonstration period will authorize the unit to emit at a rate not greater than the interim alternative emission limitation during the demonstration period on or after January 1, 1996 for Phase I units and the applicable date established in § 76.6 or 76.7 for Phase II units, and until the date that the Administrator approves or denies a final alternative emission limitation.

(iv) After an alternative emission limitation demonstration period is approved, if the designated representative requests an extension of the demonstration period in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(i)(B) of this section, the permitting authority may extend the demonstration period by administrative amendment (under § 72.83 of this chapter) to the Acid Rain permit.

(v) The permitting authority shall deny the demonstration period if the designated representative cannot demonstrate that the unit met the requirements of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. In such cases, the permitting authority shall require that the owner or operator operate the unit in compliance with the applicable emission limitation in § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7 for the period preceding the submission of the application for an alternative emission limitation demonstration period, including the operating period, if such periods are after the date on which the unit is subject to the standard limit under § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7.
