
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 76 - ACID RAIN NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### § 76.11 Emissions averaging.
###### General provisions.

(a)In lieu of complying with the applicable emission limitation in § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7, any affected units subject to such emission limitation, under control of the same owner or operator, and having the same designated representative may average their NOemissions under an averaging plan approved under this section.

(1) Each affected unit included in an averaging plan for Phase I shall be a Phase I unit with a Group 1 boiler subject to an emission limitation in § 76.5 during all years for which the unit is included in the plan.

(i) If a unit with an approved NOcompliance extension is included in an averaging plan for 1996, the unit shall be treated, for the purposes of applying Equation 1 in paragraph (a)(6) of this section and Equation 2 in paragraph (d)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, as subject to the applicable emissions limitation under § 76.5 for the entire year 1996.

(ii) A Phase II unit approved for early election under § 76.8 shall not be included in an averaging plan for Phase I.

(2) Each affected unit included in an averaging plan for Phase II shall be a boiler subject to an emission limitation in § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7 for all years for which the unit is included in the plan.

(3) Each unit included in an averaging plan shall have an alternative contemporaneous annual emission limitation (lb/mmBtu) and can only be included in one averaging plan.

(4) Each unit included in an averaging plan shall have a minimum allowable annual heat input value (mmBtu), if it has an alternative contemporaneous annual emission limitation more stringent than that unit's applicable emission limitation under § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7, and a maximum allowable annual heat input value, if it has an alternative contemporaneous annual emission limitation less stringent than that unit's applicable emission limitation under § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7.

(5) The Btu-weighted annual average emission rate for the units in an averaging plan shall be less than or equal to the Btu-weighted annual average emission rate for the same units had they each been operated, during the same period of time, in compliance with the applicable emission limitations in § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7.

(6) In order to demonstrate that the proposed plan is consistent with paragraph (a)(5) of this section, the alternative contemporaneous annual emission limitations and annual heat input values assigned to the units in the proposed averaging plan shall meet the following requirement:

(7) For units with an alternative emission limitation, Rshall equal the applicable emissions limitation under § 76.5, 76.6, or 76.7, not the alternative emissions limitation.

(8) No unit may be included in more than one averaging plan.
