
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 76 - ACID RAIN NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### ยง 76.11 Emissions averaging.
###### Withdrawal or termination.
####### Contents of Phase I NO,compliance extension plan.

(b)A complete Phase I NOcompliance extension plan shall include the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(1) Identification of the unit.

(2) For units applying pursuant to paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section:

(i) A list of the company names, addresses, and telephone numbers of vendors who are qualified to provide the services and low NOburner technology designed to meet the applicable emission limitation under ยง 76.5 and have been contacted to obtain the required services and technology. The list shall include the dates of contact, and a copy of each request for bids shall be submitted, along with any other information necessary to show a good-faith effort to obtain the required services and technology necessary to meet the requirements of this part on or before January 1, 1995.

(ii) A copy of those portions of a legally binding contract with a qualified vendor that demonstrate that services and low NOburner technology designed to meet the applicable emission limitation under ยง 76.5, with a completion date not later than December 31, 1995 have been contracted for.

(iii) Scheduling information, including justification and test schedules.

(iv) To demonstrate, if applicable, that the supply of the low NOburner technology designed to meet the applicable emission limitation under ยง 76.5 is inadequate to enable its installation and operation at the unit, consistent with system reliability, in time for the unit to comply with the applicable emission limitation on or before January 1, 1995, either:

(A) Certification from the selected vendor(s) (by a certifying official) listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section stating that they cannot provide the necessary services and install the low NOburner technology on or before January 1, 1995 and explaining the reasons why the services cannot be provided and why the equipment cannot be installed in a timely manner; or

(B) The following information:

(i) Standard load forecasts, based on standard forecasting models available throughout the utility industry and applied to the period, January 1, 1993, through December 31, 1994.

(ii) Specific reasons why an outage cannot be scheduled to enable the unit to install and operate the low NOburner technology by January 1, 1995, including reasons why no other units can be used to replace this unit's generation during such outage.

(iii) Fuel and energy balance summaries and power and other consumption requirements (including those for air, steam, and cooling water).

(3) To demonstrate, if applicable, participation in an approved clean coal technology demonstration project, a description of the project, including all sources of Federal, State, and other outside funding, amount and date for approval of Federal funding, the duration of the project, and the anticipated completion date of the project.

(4) The special provisions in paragraph (d) of this section.
