
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 76 - ACID RAIN NITROGEN OXIDES EMISSION REDUCTION PROGRAM
##### § 76.11 Emissions averaging.
###### Withdrawal or termination.
####### Extension until December 31, 1997.

(e)(1) The designated representative of a Phase I unit that is subject to section 404(d) of the Act, has a tangentially fired boiler, and is unable to install low NOburner technology by January 1, 1997 may submit a petition for and receive an extension for meeting the applicable emission limitation under § 76.5 where it is demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that:

(i) The unit is located at a source with two or more other units, all of which are Phase I units that are subject to section 404(d) of the Act and have tangentially fired boilers;

(ii) The NOcontrol system at the unit was scheduled to be installed by January 1, 1997 and, because of operational problems associated with the NOcontrol system, will be redesigned; and

(iii) Installation of the redesigned low NOburner technology at the unit cannot be completed by January 1, 1997 without causing system reliability problems.

(2) A complete petition shall include the following elements and shall be submitted by April 28, 1995.

(i) Identification of the unit and the other units at the source;

(ii) A statement describing how the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1)(ii) and (e)(1)(iii) of this section are met;

(iii) The earliest date, not later than December 31, 1997, by which installation of the redesigned low NOburner technology can be completed consistent with system reliability; and

(iv) The provisions in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.

(3) To the extent the Administrator determines that a Phase I unit meets the requirements of paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section, the Administrator will approve the petition within 90 days from receipt of the complete petition. The Acid Rain permit governing the unit will be revised in order to incorporate the approved extension, which shall terminate no later than December 31, 1997, by administrative amendment under § 72.83 of this chapter except that the Administrator will have 90 days to take final action.

(4) The unit shall comply with the applicable emission limitation under § 76.5 beginning on the day immediately following the day on which the extension approved under paragraph (e)(3) of this section terminates. Compliance shall be determined as specified in part 75 of this chapter using measured values of NOemissions and heat input only for the portion of the year that the emission limit is in effect. If a unit with an approved extension is included in an averaging plan under § 76.11 for year 1997, the unit shall be treated, for the purpose of applying Equation 1 in § 76.11(a)(6) and Equation 2 in § 76.11(d)(1)(ii)(A), as subject to the applicable emission limitation under § 76.5 for the entire year 1997.
