
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 77 - EXCESS EMISSIONS
##### ยง 77.4 Administrator's action on proposed offset plans.
###### Contents.

(3)All public notices issued under this part will contain the following information:

(i) Identification of the EPA office processing the approval or disapproval of the draft offset plan for which the notice is being given.

(ii) Identification of the designated representative for the affected source.

(iii) Identification of each affected source covered by the proposed offset plan.

(iv) The amount of excess emissions that must be offset and the date on which the allowances are proposed to be deducted.

(v) The address and office hours of a public location where the administrative record is available for public inspection and a statement that all information submitted by the designated representative and not protected as confidential pursuant to section 114(c) of the Act is available for public inspections as part of the administrative record.

(vi) For public notice under paragraph (g)(1)(i)(A) of this section, a brief description of the public comment procedures, including:

(A) A 30-day public comment period beginning the date of publication of the notice or, in the case of an extension or reopening of the public comment period, such period as the Administrator deems appropriate;

(B) The address where public comments should be sent;

(C) Required formats and contents for public comment;

(D) An opportunity to request a public hearing to occur not earlier than 15 days after public notice is given and the location, date, time, and procedures of any scheduled public hearing; and

(E) Any other means by which the public may participate.
