
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 77 - EXCESS EMISSIONS
##### ยง 77.6 Penalties for excess emissions of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides.
###### Penalty formula.

(b)(1) The following formulas shall be used to determine the excess emissions penalty:

(i) The annual adjustment factor will be calculated as follows:

(A) "CPI(year)" is the Consumer Price Index as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter and "year" is the year in which the source or unit as appropriate had excess emissions.

(B) "CPI(1990)" is the Consumer Price Index for 1990, as defined in ยง 72.2 of this chapter.

(ii) The Administrator will publish the annual adjustment factor in theby October 15 of each year beginning in 1995.

(2) The penalty may be rounded to the nearest dollar after completing the calculation in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(3) The penalty for excess emissions of sulfur dioxide shall be paid separately from the payment for excess emissions of nitrogen oxides. Each payment shall be accompanied by a document, in a format prescribed by the Administrator, indicating the source or unit as appropriate for which the payment is made, whether the payment is for excess emissions of sulfur dioxide or nitrogen oxides, the number of tons of excess emissions, the penalty amount, and the check or money order number of the payment.

(c) If an excess emissions penalty due under this part is not paid on or before the applicable deadline under paragraph (a) of this section, the penalty shall be subject to interest charges in accordance with the Debt Collection Act (31 U.S.C. 3717). Interest shall begin to accrue on the date on which the Administrator mails, to the designated representative of the source or unit as appropriate with excess emissions, a demand notice for the payment.

(d)(1) Except for wire transfers made in accordance with paragraph (d)(2) of this section, payments of penalties shall be made by money order, cashier's check, certified check, or U.S. Treasury check made payable to the "U.S. EPA."

(2) Payments made under paragraph (c)(1) of this section shall be mailed to the following address, unless the Administrator has notified the designated representative of a different address: U.S. EPA: Headquarters Accounting Operations Branch, Acid Rain Excess Emissions Penalties, P.O. Box 952491, St. Louis, MO 63195-2491.

(3) Payments of penalties of $25,000 or more may be made by wire transfer to the U.S. Treasury at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.

(e) If the Administrator determines that overpayment has been made, he or she will refund the overpayment without interest, as promptly as administratively possible.
