
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 78 - APPEAL PROCEDURES
##### ยง 78.4 Filings.
###### sua sponte

(c)(1) Failure to comply with the requirements of this section or any other requirement in this part may result in the noncomplying portions of the filing being excluded from consideration. If the Environmental Appeals Board or the Presiding Officer determines on motion by any party orthat a filing fails to meet any requirement of this part, the Environmental Appeals Board or Presiding Officer may return the filing, together with a reference to the applicable requirements on which the determination is based. A person whose filing has been rejected has 7 days (or other reasonable period established by the Environmental Appeals Board or Presiding Officer), from the date the returned filing is mailed, to correct the filing in conformance with this part and refile it.

(2) The making of a filing shall not mean or imply that the filing, in fact, meets all applicable requirements, that the filing contains reasonable grounds for the action requested, or that the action requested is in accordance with law.

(d) An original and two copies of any written filing under this part shall be filed with the Environmental Appeals Board unless a proceeding is pending before a Presiding Officer, in which case they shall be filed with the Hearing Clerk (except as provided under ยง 78.19(d)).

(e)(1) The party making any filing in a proceeding under this part shall also serve a copy of the filing on each party to the proceeding, or, with regard to a petition for administrative review, on the persons specified in ยง 78.3(b)(3).

(2) Every filing made under this part shall be accompanied by a certificate of service citing the date, place, time, and manner of service and the names of the persons served.

(f) The Hearing Clerk will maintain and furnish, to any person upon request, the official service list containing the name, service address, telephone, and facsimile numbers of each party to a proceeding under this part and his or her attorney or duly authorized representative.

(g) Affidavits filed under this part shall be made on personal knowledge and belief, set forth only those facts that are admissible into evidence under ยง 78.5, and show affirmatively that the affiant is competent to testify to the matters stated therein.
