
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 78 - APPEAL PROCEDURES
##### ยง 78.4 Filings.

(a)(1) All original filings made under this part shall be signed by the person making the filing or by an attorney or authorized representative, in accordance with the following requirements:

(i)(A) Any filings on behalf of owners and operators of an affected unit or affected source under parts 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, and 77 of this chapter shall be signed by the designated representative.

(B) Any filings on behalf of persons with an ownership interest with respect to allowances in a general account under parts 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, and 77 of this chapter shall be signed by the authorized account representative.

(ii)(A) Any filings on behalf of owners and operators of a NOBudget unit or NOBudget source shall be signed by the NOauthorized account representative.

(B) Any filings on behalf of persons with an ownership interest with respect to NOallowances in a general account shall be signed by the NOauthorized account representative.

(iii)(A) Any filings on behalf of owners and operators of a CAIR NOunit or CAIR NOsource, CAIR SOunit or CAIR SOsource, or CAIR NOOzone Season unit or CAIR NOOzone Season source shall be signed by the CAIR designated representative.

(B) Any filings on behalf of persons with an ownership interest with respect to CAIR NOallowances, CAIR SOallowances, or CAIR NOOzone Season allowances in a general account shall be signed by the CAIR authorized account representative.

(iv)(A) Any filings on behalf of owners and operators of a CSAPR NOAnnual unit or CSAPR NOAnnual source, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 unit or CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 source, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 2 unit or CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 2 source, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 unit or CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 source, CSAPR SOGroup 1 unit or CSAPR SOGroup 1 source, CSAPR SOGroup 2 unit or CSAPR SOGroup 2 source, or Texas SOTrading Program unit or Texas SOTrading Program source shall be signed by the designated representative.

(B) Any filings on behalf of persons with an ownership interest with respect to CSAPR NOAnnual allowances, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 allowances, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 2 allowances, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances, CSAPR SOGroup 1 allowances, CSAPR SOGroup 2 allowances, or Texas SOTrading Program allowances in a general account shall be signed by the authorized account representative.

(v) Any filings on behalf of owners and operators of a facility covered by subpart RR of part 98 of this chapter shall be signed by the designated representative.

(2) The name, address, e-mail address (if any), telephone number, and facsimile number (if any) of the person making the filing shall be provided with the filing.

(b)(1) All data and information referred to, or in any way relied upon, in any filings made under this part shall be included in full and may not be incorporated by reference, unless the data or information is contained in the administrative record for the decision being appealed.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (b)(1) of this section, State or Federal statutes, regulations, and judicial decisions published in a national reporter system, officially issued EPA documents of general applicability, and any other publicly and generally available reference material may be incorporated by reference. Any person incorporating such materials by reference shall provide copies of the materials as instructed by the Environmental Appeals Board or the Presiding Officer.

(3) If any part of any filing is in a foreign language, it shall be accompanied by an English translation verified by the person making the translation, under oath, to be complete and accurate, together with the name, address, and a brief statement of the qualifications of the person making the translation. Translations filed of material originally produced in a foreign language shall be accompanied by copies of the original material.

(4) Where relevant data or information is contained in a document also containing irrelevant matter, either the irrelevant matter shall be deleted or an index to the relevant portions of the document shall be included in the document.
