
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 78 - APPEAL PROCEDURES
##### ยง 78.20 Appeal of decision of Administrator or proposed decision to the Environmental Appeals Board.
###### sua sponte

(b) Within 45 days (or other shorter, reasonable period established by the Environmental Appeals Board) after issuance of a proposed decision of a Presiding Officer, the Environmental Appeals Board may issuein its discretion a notice of intent to review such proposed decision. The Environmental Appeals Board will serve such notice upon all parties to the proceeding.

(c) Within a reasonable time following the filing of a petition for administrative review of a decision of the Administrator under ยง 78.3, or, if any issues raised by such petition are referred to the Presiding Officer, the filing of objections under paragraph (a) of this section or the issuance of a notice of intent to review under paragraph (b) of this section, the Environmental Appeals Board will issue an order affirming, reversing, modifying, or remanding the decision or proposed decision, as appropriate. Prior to issuing this order, the Environmental Appeals Board may provide an opportunity for parties to file additional briefs.

(d) If the Environmental Appeals Board issues an order affirming, reversing, or modifying the decision of the Administrator, then the decision as supplemented or changed by the order, shall be final agency action.

(e) If the Environmental Appeals Board issues an order affirming, reversing, or modifying the proposed decision, the proposed decision, as supplemented or changed by the order, shall be final agency action.

(f) If the Environmental Appeals Board issues an order remanding the proceeding, then final agency action occurs upon completion of the remanded proceeding, including any appeals to the Environmental Appeals Board in the remanded proceeding.
