
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 78 - APPEAL PROCEDURES
##### ยง 78.16 Record of appeal proceeding.

(a) The proposed decision issued by the Presiding Officer, transcripts of oral hearings or oral arguments, written direct and rebuttal testimony, and any other written materials of any kind filed in the proceeding will be part of the record and will be available to the public in the office of the Hearing Clerk, subject to the requirements of part 2 of this chapter.

(b) Hearings and oral arguments shall be recorded as specified by the Presiding Officer, and thereupon transcribed. After the hearing or oral argument, the reporter will certify and file with the Hearing Clerk:

(1) The original transcript; and

(2) Any exhibits received or offered into evidence at the hearing.

(c) The Hearing Clerk will promptly give written notice to the parties when any transcript is available. Any party that desires a copy of the transcript may obtain a copy upon payment of costs.

(d) The Presiding Officer will allow witnesses, parties, and their counsel or representatives:

(1) Up to 7 days (or other shorter, reasonable period established by the Presiding Officer) from issuance of the notice under paragraph (c) of this section in order to file written proposed corrections of the transcript necessary to correct errors made in the transcribing; and

(2) Up to 7 days (or other shorter, reasonable period established by the Presiding Officer) from the submission of the corrections in order to file objections to the proposed corrections.

(e) The Presiding Officer will determine which, if any, corrections should be made to the transcript and incorporate them into the record.
