
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 78 - APPEAL PROCEDURES
##### ยง 78.15 Motions in evidentiary hearings.

(a) Any party may make a motion to the Presiding Officer on any matter relating to the evidentiary hearing in accordance with the scheduling orders issued under ยง 78.13. All motions shall be in writing and served as provided in ยง 78.4, except those made on the record during an oral hearing before the Presiding Officer.

(b) Any party may make a motion for a summary disposition in its favor on any factual issue on the basis that there is no genuine issue of material fact. When a motion for summary disposition is made and supported, any party opposing the motion may not rest upon mere allegations or denials, but must show, by affidavit or by other materials subject to consideration by the Presiding Officer, that there is a genuine issue of material fact.

(c) Within 10 days (or other shorter, reasonable period established by the Presiding Officer) after a motion made on the record or service of any written motion, any party may file a response to the motion.

(d) The Presiding Officer may schedule an oral argument and call for the filing of briefs on any motion. The Presiding Officer will rule on the motion within a reasonable time after the date that responses to the motion may be filed under paragraph (c) of this section and that any oral argument or filing of briefs is completed.

(e) If all factual issues are decided by summary disposition prior to the hearing, no hearing will be held and the Presiding Officer will issue a proposed decision under ยง 78.18. If a summary disposition is denied or if partial summary disposition is granted, the hearing shall proceed on the remaining issues.
