
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart D - Designation of Fuels and Additives
###### § 79.31 Additives.
####### "motor vehicle"

(a) All additives produced or sold for use in motor vehicle gasoline and/or motor vehicle diesel fuel are hereby designated. The Act defines the termto mean any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway. For purposes of this registration, however, additives specifically manufactured and marketed for use in motorcycle fuels are excluded.

(b) All designated additives must be registered by July 7, 1976.

(c) In accordance with §§ 79.5(b) and 79.21(e), and to the extent such information is known to the additive manufacturer as a result of testing conducted for reasons other than additive registration or reporting purposes, the additive manufacturer shall furnish the highest, lowest, and average values of the impurities in each designated additive, if greater than 0.1 percent by weight. The methods of analysis in making the determinations shall also be given.

(d) In accordance with §§ 79.5(b) and 79.21(e), and to the extent such information is known to the additive manufacturer, he shall furnish summaries of any information developed by or specifically for him concerning the following items:

(1) Mechanisms of action of the additive;

(2) Reactions between the additive and the fuels listed in paragraph (a) of this section;

(3) Identification and measurement of the emission products of the additive when used in the fuels listed in paragraph (a) of this section;

(4) Effects of the additive on all emissions;

(5) Toxicity and any other public health or welfare effects of the emission products of the additive;

(6) Effects of the emission products of the additive on the performance of emission control devices/systems. Such submissions shall be accompanied by a description of the test procedures used in obtaining the information. Information will be considered to be known to the additive manufacturer if a report thereon has been prepared and circulated or distributed outside the research department or division.
