
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart C - Additive Registration Procedures
###### ยง 79.21 Information and assurances to be provided by the additive manufacturer.
####### 2

() A range of concentrations for any detergent-active component such that, if the component were present in the detergent additive package at the lower bound of the reported range, the deposit control effectiveness of the additive package would be reduced as compared with the level of effectiveness demonstrated pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.260. Subject to the foregoing constraint, a gasoline detergent additive sold under a particular additive registration may contain a higher concentration of the detergent-active component(s) than the concentration(s) of such component(s) reported in the registration for the additive.

(B) The identity or concentration of non-detergent-active components of the detergent additive package may vary under a single registration provided that such variability does not reduce the deposit control effectiveness of the additive package as compared with the level of effectiveness demonstrated pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.260.

(C) Unless the additive manufacturer provides EPA with data to substantiate that a carrier oil does not act to enhance the detergent additive's ability to control deposits, any carrier oil contained in the detergent additive, whether petroleum-based or synthetic, must be treated as a detergent-active component in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section.

(D) Except as provided in paragraph (j)(3)(iii)(E) of this section, detergent additive packages that do not satisfy the requirements in paragraphs (j)(3)(iii)(A) through (C) must be separately registered. EPA may disqualify an additive for use in satisfying the requirements of this subpart if EPA determines that the variability included within a given detergent additive registration may reduce the deposit control effectiveness of the detergent package such that it may invalidate the lowest additive concentration reported in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (j)(1) of this section and 40 CFR 1090.260.

(E) A change in minimum concentration requirements resulting from a modification of detergent additive composition does not require a new detergent additive registration or a change in existing registration if the modification is affected by a detergent blender pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.1240.

(4) For detergent-active polymers and detergent-active carrier oils that are reported as the product of other chemical reactants:

(i) Identification of the reactant materials and the manufacturer's acceptance criteria for determining that these materials are suitable for use in synthesizing detergent components. The manufacturer must maintain documentation, and submit it to EPA upon request, demonstrating that the acceptance criteria reported to EPA are the same criteria which the manufacturer specifies to the suppliers of the reactant materials.

(ii) A Gel Permeation Chromatograph (GPC), providing the molecular weight distribution of the polymer or detergent-active carrier oil components and the concentration of each chromatographic peak representing more than one percent of the total mass. For these results to be acceptable, the GPC test procedure must include equipment calibration with a polystyrene standard or other readily attainable and generally accepted calibration standard. The identity of the calibration standard must be provided, together with the GPC characterization of the standard.

(5) For non-detergent-active carrier oils, the following parameters:

(i) T10, T50, and T90 distillation points, and end boiling point, measured according to applicable test procedures cited in 40 CFR 1090.1350.

(ii) API gravity and viscosity.

(iii) Concentration of oxygen, sulfur, and nitrogen, if greater than or equal to 0.5 percent (by weight) of the carrier oil.

(6) Description of an FTIR-based method appropriate for identifying the detergent additive package and its detergent-active components (polymers, carrier oils, and others) both qualitatively and quantitatively, together with the actual infrared spectra of the detergent additive package and each detergent-active component obtained by this test method. The FTIR infrared spectra submitted in connection with the registration of a detergent additive package must reflect the results of a test conducted on a sample of the additive containing the detergent-active component(s) at a concentration no lower than the concentration(s) (or the lower bound of a range of concentration) reported in the registration pursuant to paragraph (j)(1) of this section.

(7) Specific physical parameters must be identified which the manufacturer considers adequate and appropriate, in combination with other information in this section, for identifying the detergent additive package and monitoring its production quality control.

(i) Such parameters must include (but need not be limited to) viscosity, density, and basic nitrogen content, unless the additive manufacturer specifically requests, and EPA approves, the substitution of other parameter(s) which the manufacturer considers to be more appropriate for a particular additive package. The request must be made in writing and must include an explanation of how the requested physical parameter(s) are helpful as indicator(s) of detergent production quality control. EPA will respond to such requests in writing; the additional parameters are not approved until the manufacturer receives EPA's written approval.

(ii) The manufacturer must identify a standardized measurement method, consistent with the chemical and physical nature of the detergent product, which will be used to measure each parameter. The documented ASTM repeatability for the method must also be cited. The manufacturer's target value for each parameter in the additive, and the expected range of production values for each parameter, must be specified.

(iii) The expected range of variability must differ from the target value by an amount no greater than five times the standard repeatability of the test procedure, or by no more than 10 percent of the target value, whichever is less. However, in the case of nitrogen analysis or other procedures for measuring concentrations of specific chemical compounds or elements, when the target value is less than 10 parts per million, a range of variability up to 50 percent of the target value will be considered acceptable.

(iv) If a manufacturer wishes to rely on measurement methods or production variability ranges which do not conform to the above limitations, then the manufacturer must receive prior written approval from EPA. A request for such allowance must be made in writing. It must fully justify the adequacy of the test procedure, explain why a broader range of variability is required, and provide evidence that the production detergent will perform adequately throughout the requested range of variability pursuant to the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.1395.
