
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.51 General requirements and provisions.
####### Overview of requirements.

(a)(1) All manufacturers of fuels and fuel additives that are designated for registration under this part are required to comply with the requirements of subpart F of this part either on an individual basis or as a participant in a group of manufacturers of the same or similar fuels and fuel additives, as defined in § 79.56. If manufacturers elect to comply by participation in a group, each manufacturer continues to be individually subject to the requirements of subpart F of this part, and responsible for testing under this subpart. Each manufacturer, subject to the provisions for group applications in § 79.51(b) and the special provisions in § 79.58, shall submit all Tier 1 and Tier 2 information required by §§ 79.52, 79.53 and 79.59 for each fuel or additive, except that the Tier 1 emission characterization requirements in § 79.52(b) and/or the Tier 2 testing requirements in § 79.53 may be satisfied by adequate existing information pursuant to the Tier 1 literature search requirements in § 79.52(d). The adequacy of existing information to serve in compliance with specific Tier 1 and/or Tier 2 requirements shall be determined according to the criteria and procedures specified in §§ 79.52(b) and 79.53 (c) and (d). In all cases, EPA reserves the right to require, based upon the information contained in the application or any other information available to the Agency, that manufacturers conduct additional testing of any fuel or additive (or fuel/additive group) if EPA determines that there is inadequate information upon which to base regulatory decisions for such product(s). In any case where EPA determines that the requirements of Tiers 1 and 2 have been satisfied but that further testing is required, the provisions of Tier 3 (§ 79.54) shall apply.

(2) Laboratory facilities shall perform testing in compliance with Good Laboratory Practice (GLP) requirements as those requirements apply to inhalation toxicology studies. All studies shall be monitored by the facilities' Quality Assurance units (as specified in § 79.60).
