
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method)
###### Standardized sulfite solution for the preparation of working sulfite-TCM solution:

8.2.10Dissolve 0.30 g sodium metabisulfite (NaSO) or 0.40 g sodium sulfite (NaSO) in 500 mL of recently boiled, cooled, distilled water. (Sulfite solution is unstable; it is therefore important to use water of the highest purity to minimize this instability.) This solution contains the equivalent of 320 to 400 µg SO/mL. The actual concentration of the solution is determined by adding excess iodine and back-titrating with standard sodium thiosulfate solution. To back-titrate, pipet 50 mL of the 0.01 N iodine solution (Section 8.2.4) into each of two 500-mL iodine flasks (A and B). To flask A (blank) add 25 mL distilled water, and to flask B (sample) pipet 25 mL sulfite solution. Stopper the flasks and allow to stand for 5 minutes. Prepare the working sulfite-TCM solution (Section 8.2.11) immediately prior to adding the iodine solution to the flasks. Using a buret containing standardized 0.01 N thiosulfate titrant (Section 8.2.9), titrate the solution in each flask to a pale yellow color. Then add 5 mL starch solution (Section 8.2.5) and continue the titration until the blue color just disappears.
