
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.51 General requirements and provisions.
####### Fuels and fuel additives with existing registrations.

(1)(i) The manufacturer of a fuel or fuel additive product which, pursuant to subpart B or C of this part, is registered as of May 27, 1994 must submit the additional basic registration data specified in § 79.59(b) before November 28, 1994.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (vii) of this section, the manufacturer of such products must also satisfy the requirements and time schedules in either of the following paragraphs (c)(1)(ii) (A) or (B) of this section:

(A) No later than May 27, 1997, all applicable Tier 1 and Tier 2 requirements must be submitted to EPA, pursuant to §§ 79.52, 79.53, and 79.59; or

(B) No later than May 27, 1997, all applicable Tier 1 requirements (pursuant to §§ 79.52 and 79.59), plus evidence of a contract with a qualified laboratory (or other suitable arrangement) for completion of all applicable Tier 2 requirements, must be submitted to EPA. For this purpose, a qualified laboratory is one which can demonstrate the capabilities and credentials specified in § 79.53(c)(1). In addition, by May 26, 2000, all applicable Tier 2 requirements (pursuant to §§ 79.53 and 79.59) must be submitted to EPA.

(iii) In the case of such fuels and fuel additives which, pursuant to applicable special provisions in § 79.58, are not subject to Tier 2 requirements, all other requirements (except Tier 3) must be submitted to EPA before May 27, 1997.

(iv) In the event that Tier 3 testing is also required (under § 79.54), EPA shall determine an appropriate timeline for completion of the additional requirements and shall communicate this schedule to the manufacturer according to the provisions of § 79.54(b).

(v) The manufacturer may at any time modify an existing fuel registration by submitting a request to EPA to add or delete a bulk additive to the existing registration information for such fuel product, provided that any additional additive must be registered by EPA for use in the specific fuel family to which the fuel product belongs. However, the addition or deletion of a bulk additive to a fuel registration may effect the grouping of such registered fuel under the criteria of § 79.56, and thus may effect the testing responsibilities of the fuel manufacturer under this subpart.
