
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.51 General requirements and provisions.
####### Inspection of a testing facility.

(e)(1) A testing facility, whether engaged in emissions analysis or health and/or welfare effects testing under the regulations in this subpart, shall permit an authorized employee or duly designated representative of EPA, at reasonable times and in a reasonable manner, to inspect the facility and to inspect (and in the case of records also to copy) all records and specimens required to be maintained regarding studies to which this subpart applies. The records inspection and copying requirements shall not apply to quality assurance unit records of findings and problems, or to actions recommended and taken, except the EPA may seek production of these records in litigation or informal hearings.

(2) EPA will not consider reliable for purposes of showing that a test substance does or does not present a risk of injury to health or the environment any data developed by a testing facility or sponsor that refuses to permit inspection in accordance with this section. The determination that a study will not be considered reliable does not, however, relieve the sponsor of a required test of any obligation under any applicable statute or regulation to submit the results of the study to EPA.

(3) Effects of non-compliance. Pursuant to sections 114, 208, and 211(d) of the CAA, it shall be a violation of this section and a violation of 40 CFR part 79, subpart F to deny entry to an authorized employee or duly designated representative of EPA for the purpose of auditing a testing facility or test data.
