
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.51 General requirements and provisions.
####### Penalties and Injunctive Relief.

(f)(1) Any person who violates these regulations shall be subject to a civil penalty of up to $25,000 for each and every day of the continuance of the violation and the economic benefit or savings resulting from the violation. Action to collect such civil penalties shall be commenced in accordance with paragraph (b) of section 205 of the Clean Air Act or assessed in accordance with paragraph (c) of section 205 of the Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C. 7524 (b) and (c).

(2) Under section 205(b) of the CAA, the Administrator may commence a civil action for violation of this subpart in the district court of the United States for the district in which the violation is alleged to have occurred or in which the defendant resides or has a principal place of business.

(3) Under section 205(c) of the CAA, the Administrator may assess a civil penalty of $25,000 for each and every day of the continuance of the violation and the economic benefit or savings resulting from the violation, except that the maximum penalty assessment shall not exceed $200,000, unless the Administrator and the Attorney General jointly determine that a matter involving a larger penalty amount is appropriate for administrative penalty assessment. Any such determination by the Administrator and the Attorney General shall not be subject to judicial review.

(4) The Administrator may, upon application by the person against whom any such penalty has been assessed, remit or mitigate, with or without conditions, any such penalty.

(5) The district courts of the United States shall have jurisdiction to compel the furnishing of information and the conduct of tests required by the Administrator under these regulations and to award other appropriate relief. Actions to compel such actions shall be brought by and in the name of the United States. In any such action, subpoenas for witnesses who are required to attend a district court in any district may run into any other district.
