
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.51 General requirements and provisions.
####### Registrable fuels and fuel additives.

(2)(i) A fuel product which is not registered pursuant to subpart B of this part as of May 27, 1994 shall be considered registrable if, under the criteria established by § 79.56, the fuel can be enrolled in the same fuel/additive group with one or more currently registered fuels. A fuel additive product which is not registered for a specific type of fuel pursuant to subpart C of this part as of May 27, 1994 shall be considered registrable for that type of fuel if, under the criteria established by § 79.56, the fuel/additive mixture resulting from use of the additive product in the specific type of fuel can be enrolled in the same fuel/additive group with one or more currently registered fuels or bulk fuel additives. For the purpose of this determination, currently registered fuels and bulk additives are those with existing registrations as of the date on which EPA receives the basic registration data (pursuant to § 79.59(b)) for the product in question.

(ii) A manufacturer seeking to register under subpart B of this part a fuel product which is deemed registrable under this section, or to register under subpart C of this part a fuel additive product for a specific type of fuel for which it is deemed registrable under this section, shall submit the basic registration data (pursuant to § 79.59(b)) for that product as part of the application for registration. If the Administrator determines that the product is registrable under this section, then the Administrator shall promptly register the product, provided that the applicant has satisfied all of the other requirements for registration under subpart B or subpart C of this part, and contingent upon satisfactory submission of required information under paragraph (c)(2)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Registration of a registrable fuel or additive shall be subject to the same requirements and compliance schedule as specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section for existing fuels and fuel additives. Accordingly, manufacturers of registrable fuels or additives may be granted and may retain registration for such products only if any applicable and due Tier 1, 2, and 3 requirements have also been satisfied by either the manufacturer of the product or the fuel/additive group to which the product belongs.
