
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.52 Tier 1.
####### General Provisions.

(1)(i) The emissions to be characterized shall be generated, collected, and stored according to the processes described in § 79.57. Characterization of combustion and evaporative emissions shall be performed separately on each emission sample collected during the applicable emission generation procedure.

(ii) As provided in § 79.57(d), if the emission generation vehicle/engine is ordinarily equipped with an emission aftertreatment device, then all requirements in this section for the characterization of combustion emissions must be completed both with and without the aftertreatment device in a functional state. The emissions shall be generated three times (on three different days) without a functional aftertreatment device and, if applicable, three times (on three different days) with a functional aftertreatment device, and each such time shall be analyzed according to the remaining provisions in this paragraph (b) of this section.

(iii) Measurement of background emissions: It is required that ambient/dilution air be analyzed for levels of background chemical species present at the time of emissions sampling (for both combustion and evaporative emissions) and that sample values be corrected by substracting the concentrations contributed by the ambient/dilution air. Background chemical species measurement/analysis during the FTP is specified in §§ 86.109-94(c)(5) and 86.135-94 of this chapter.

(iv) Concentrations of emission products shall be reported either in units of grams per mile (g/mi) or grams per brake-horsepower/hour (g/bhp-hr) (for chassis dynamometer and engine dynamometer test configurations, respectively), as well as in units of weight percent of measured total hydrocarbons.

(v) Laboratory practice must be of high quality and must be consistent with state-of-the-art methods as presented in current environmental and analytical chemistry literature. Examples of analytical procedures which may be used in conducting the emission characterization/speciation requirements of this section can be found among the references in paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(2) Characterization of the combustion emissions shall include, for products in all fuel families (except when expressly noted in this section):

(i) Determination of the concentration of the basic emissions as follows: total hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, oxides of nitrogen, and particulates. Manufacturers are referred to the vehicle certification procedures in 40 CFR part 86, subparts B and D (§§ 86.101 through 86.145 and §§ 86.301 through 86.348) for guidance on the measurement of the basic emissions of interest to this subpart.

(ii) Characterization of the vapor phase of combustion emissions, as follows:

(A) Determination of the identity and concentration of individual species of hydrocarbon compounds containing 12 or fewer carbon atoms. Such characterization shall begin within 30 minutes after emission collection is completed.

(B) Determination of the identity and concentration of individual species of aldehyde and ketone compounds containing eight or fewer carbon atoms. Characterization of these emissions captured in cartridges shall be performed within two weeks if the cartridge is stored at room temperature, and one month if the cartridge is stored at 0 &#xB0;C or less. If the emissions are sampled using the impinger method, the sample must be stored in a capped sample vial at 0 &#xB0;C or less and characterized within one week.

(C) Determination of the identity and concentration of individual species of alcohol and ether compounds containing six or fewer carbon atoms, for those fuels and additive/base fuel mixtures which contain alcohol and/or ether compounds containing from one to six carbon atoms in the uncombusted state. For fuel and additive formulations containing alcohols or ethers with more than six carbon atoms in the uncombusted state, alcohol and ether species with that higher number of carbon atoms or less must be identified and measured in the emissions. Such characterization shall begin within four hours after emission collection is completed.

(iii) Characterization of the semi-volatile and particulate phases of combustion emissions to identify and measure polycyclic aromatic compounds, as follows:

(A) Analysis for polycyclic aromatic compounds shall not be conducted at or soon after the start of a recommended engine lubricant change interval.

(B) Analysis for polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) and nitrated polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (NPAHs), specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(D) of this section, need not be done for any fuels and additives in the methane or propane fuel families, nor for fuels and additives in the atypical categories of any other fuel families, pursuant to the definitions of such families and categories in § 79.56.

(C) Analysis for poly-chlorinated dibenzodioxins and dibenzofurans (PCDD/PCDFs), specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii)(E) of this section, is required only for fuels and additives which contain chlorine as an atypical element, pursuant to paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section, which requires all individual emission products containing atypical elements to be determined for atypical fuels and additives. However, manufacturers of baseline and nonbaseline fuels and fuel additives in all fuel families, except those in the methane and propane fuel families, are strongly encouraged to conduct these analyses on a voluntary basis.

(D) The analytical method used to measure species of PAHs and NPAHs should be capable of detecting at least 1 ppm (equivalent to 0.001 microgram (µg) of compound per milligram of organic extract) of these compounds in the extractable organic matter. The concentration of each individual PAH or NPAH compound identified shall be reported in units of microgram per mile or nanograms per brake-horsepower/hour (for chassis dynamometer and engine dynamometer test configurations, respectively). Each compound which is present at 0.001 µg per mile (0.5 nanograms per brake-horsepower/hour) or more must be identified, measured, and reported. The following individual species shall be measured:
