
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.51 General requirements and provisions.
####### Multiple Test Potential for Atypical Fuel Formulations.

(j)When the composition information reported in the registration application or basic registration data for a fuel product includes more than one atypical bulk additive product (pursuant to ยง 79.56(e)(2)(iii)), and when these additives belong to different fuel/additive groups (pursuant to ยง 79.56(e)(4)(iii)), then:

(1) When such disparate additive products are for the same purpose-in-use and are not ordinarily used in the fuel simultaneously, the fuel manufacturer shall be responsible for testing (or participating in the group testing of) a separate formulation for each such additive product. Testing related to each additive product shall be performed on a mixture of the additive in the applicable base fuel, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, or by participation in the costs of testing the designated representative of the fuel/additive group to which each separate atypical additive product belongs.

(2) When the disparate additive products are not for the same purpose-in-use, the fuel manufacturer shall nevertheless be responsible for testing a separate formulation for each such additive product, as described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, if these additives are not ordinarily blended together in the same commercial formulation of the fuel.

(3) When the disparate additive products are ordinarily blended together in the same commercial formulation of the fuel, then the fuel manufacturer shall be responsible for the testing of a single test formulation containing all such simultaneously used atypical additive products. Alternatively, this responsibility can be satisfied by enrolling such fuel product in a group which includes other fuel or additive products with the same total combination of atypical elements as that occurring in the fuel product in question. If the basic registration data for the subject fuel includes any alternative additives which contain atypical elements not represented in the test formulation, then the fuel manufacturer is also responsible for testing a separate formulation for each such additional disparate additive product.
