
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.52 Tier 1.
####### vi

() Octo-CDDs and octo-CDFs as one class.

(iv) With respect to all phases (vapor, semi-volatile, and particulate) of combustion emissions generated from those fuels and additive/base fuel mixtures classified in the atypical categories (pursuant to § 79.56), the identity and concentration of individual emission products containing such atypical elements shall also be determined.

(3) For evaporative fuels and evaporative fuel additives, characterization of the evaporative emissions shall include:

(i) Determination of the concentration of total hydrocarbons for the applicable vehicle type and class in 40 CFR part 86, subpart B (§§ 86.101 through 86.145).

(ii) Determination of the identity and concentration of individual species of hydrocarbon compounds containing 12 or fewer carbon atoms. Such characterization shall begin within 30 minutes after emission collection is completed.

(iii) In the case of those fuels and additive/base fuel mixtures which contain alcohol and/or ether compounds in the uncombusted state, determination of the identity and concentration of individual species of alcohol and ether compounds containing six or fewer carbon atoms. For fuel and additive formulations containing alcohols or ethers with more than six carbon atoms in the uncombusted state, alcohol and ether species with that higher number of carbon atoms or less must be identified and measured in the emissions. Such characterization shall begin within four hours after emission collection is completed.

(iv) In the case of those fuels and additive/base fuel mixtures which contain atypical elements, determination of the identity and concentration of individual emission products containing such atypical elements.
