
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method)
###### Purification procedure for PRA

8.2.12.3-

1. Place 100 mL each of 1-butanol and 1 N HCl in a large separatory funnel (250-mL) and allow to equilibrate. Note: Certain batches of 1-butanol contain oxidants that create an SOdemand. Before using, check by placing 20 mL of 1-butanol and 5 mL of 20 percent potassium iodide (KI) solution in a 50-mL separatory funnel and shake thoroughly. If a yellow color appears in the alcohol phase, redistill the 1-butanol from silver oxide and collect the middle fraction or purchase a new supply of 1-butanol.

2. Weigh 100 mg of pararosaniline hydrochloride dye (PRA) in a small beaker. Add 50 mL of the equilibrated acid (drain in acid from the bottom of the separatory funnel in 1.) to the beaker and let stand for several minutes. Discard the remaining acid phase in the separatory funnel.

3. To a 125-mL separatory funnel, add 50 mL of the equilibrated 1-butanol (draw the 1-butanol from the top of the separatory funnel in 1.). Transfer the acid solution (from 2.) containing the dye to the funnel and shake carefully to extract. The violet impurity will transfer to the organic phase.

4. Transfer the lower aqueous phase into another separatory funnel, add 20 mL of equilibrated 1-butanol, and extract again.

5. Repeat the extraction procedure with three more 10-mL portions of equilibrated 1-butanol.

6. After the final extraction, filter the acid phase through a cotton plug into a 50-mL volumetric flask and bring to volume with 1 N HCl. This stock reagent will be a yellowish red.

7. To check the purity of the PRA, perform the assay and adjustment of concentration (Section 8.2.12.4) and prepare a reagent blank (Section 11.2); the absorbance of this reagent blank at 540 nm should be less than 0.170 at 22 &#xB0;C. If the absorbance is greater than 0.170 under these conditions, further extractions should be performed.
