
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.52 Tier 1.
####### Literature Search.

(d)(1) Manufacturers of fuels and fuel additives shall conduct a literature search and compilation of information on the potential toxicologic, environmental, and other public welfare effects of the emissions of such fuels and additives. The literature search shall include all available relevant information from in-house, industry, government, and public sources pertaining to the emissions of the subject fuel or fuel additive or the emissions of similar fuels or additives, with such similarity determined according to the provisions of ยง 79.56.

(2) The literature search shall address the potential adverse effects of whole combustion emissions, evaporative emissions, relevant emission fractions, and individual emission products of the subject fuel or fuel additive except as specified in the following paragraph. The individual emission products to be included are those identified pursuant to the emission characterization procedures specified in paragraph (b) of this section, other than carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, benzene, 1,3-butadiene, acetaldehyde, and formaldehyde.

(3) In the case of the individual emission products of non-baseline or atypical fuels and additives (pursuant to ยง 79.56(e)(2)), the literature data need not be submitted for those emission products which are the same as the combustion emission products of the respective base fuel for the product's fuel family (pursuant to ยง 79.55). For this purpose, data on the base fuel emission products for the product's fuel family:

(i) May be found in the literature of previously-conducted, adequate emission speciation studies for the base fuel, or for a fuel or additive/fuel mixture capable of grouping with the base fuel (see, for example, the references in paragraph (b)(5) of this section).

(ii) May be compiled while gathering internal control data during emissions characterization studies on the manufacturer's non-baseline or atypical product; or

(iii) May be obtained from various manufacturers in the course of their testing different additive(s) belonging to the same fuel family, or in the testing of a base fuel serving as representative of the baseline group for the respective fuel family.
