
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.56 Fuel and fuel additive grouping system.
####### Basis for classification.

(d)(1) Rather than segregating fuels and fuel additives into separate groups, the grouping system applies the same grouping criteria and creates a single set of groups applicable both to fuels and fuel additives.

(2) Fuels shall be classified pursuant to ยง 79.56(e) into categories and groups of similar fuels and fuel additives according to the components and characteristics of such fuels in their uncombusted state. The classification of a fuel product must take into account the components of all bulk fuel additives which are listed in the registration application or basic registration data submitted for the fuel product.

(3) Fuel additives shall be classified pursuant to ยง 79.56(e) into categories and groups of similar fuels and fuel additives according to the components and characteristics of the respective uncombusted additive/base fuel mixture pursuant to ยง 79.51(h)(1).

(4) In determining the category and group to which a fuel or fuel additive belongs, impurities present in trace amounts shall be ignored unless otherwise noted. Impurities are those substances which are present through contamination or which remain in the fuel or additive naturally after processing is completed.
