
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.56 Fuel and fuel additive grouping system.
####### Fuel/additive categories.

(2)Fuel/additive categories (Table F94-7, rows 1-3) are subdivisions of fuel families which represent the degree to which fuels and fuel additives in the family resemble the base fuel(s) designated for the family. Three general category types are defined in this section. When applied to fuel additives, the criteria in these descriptions refer to the associated additive/base fuel mixture, pursuant to ยง 79.51(h)(1).

(i) Baseline categories consist of fuels and fuel additives which contain no elements other than those permitted in the base fuel for the respective fuel family and conform to specified limitations on the amounts of certain components or characteristics applicable to that fuel family.

(ii) Non-Baseline Categories consist of fuels and fuel additives which contain no elements other than those permitted in the base fuel for the respective fuel family, but which exceed one or more of the limitations for certain specified components or characteristics applicable to baseline formulations in that fuel family.

(iii) Atypical Categories consist of fuels and fuel additives which contain elements or classes of compounds other than those permitted in the base fuel for the respective fuel family or which otherwise do not meet the criteria for either baseline or non-baseline formulations in that fuel family. A fuel or fuel additive product having both non-baseline and atypical characteristics pursuant to ยง 79.56(e)(3), shall be considered to be an atypical product.

(3) This section defines the specific categories applicable to each fuel family. When applied to fuel additives, the criteria in these descriptions refer to the associated additive/base fuel mixture, pursuant to ยง 79.51(h)(1).
