
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.56 Fuel and fuel additive grouping system.
####### Fuel families.

(1)Each of the following six fuel families (Table F94-7, columns A-F) includes fuels of the type referenced in the name of the family as well as bulk and aftermarket additives which are intended for use in those fuels. When applied to fuel additives, the criteria in these descriptions refer to the associated additive/base fuel mixture, pursuant to § 79.51(h)(1). One or more base fuel formulations are specified for each fuel family pursuant to § 79.55.

(i) The Gasoline Family includes fuels composed of more than 50 percent gasoline by volume and their associated fuel additives. The base fuel for this family is specified in § 79.55(b).

(ii) The Diesel Family includes fuels composed of more than 50 percent diesel fuel by volume and their associated fuel additives. The Diesel fuel family includes both Diesel #1 and Diesel #2 formulations. The base fuel for this family is specified in § 79.55(c).

(iii) The Methanol Family includes fuels composed of at least 50 percent methanol by volume and their associated fuel additives. The M100 and M85 base fuels are specified in § 79.55(d).

(iv) The Ethanol Family includes fuels composed of at least 50 percent ethanol by volume and their associated fuel additives. The base fuel for this family is E85 as specified in § 79.55(e).

(v) The Methane Family includes compressed natural gas (CNG) and liquefied natural gas (LNG) fuels containing at least 50 mole percent methane and their associated fuel additives. The base fuel for the family is a CNG formulation specified in § 79.55(f).

(vi) The Propane Family includes propane fuels containing at least 50 percent propane by volume and their associated fuel additives. The base fuel for this family is a liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) as specified in § 79.55(g).

(vii) A manufacturer seeking registration for formulation(s) which do not fit the criteria for inclusion in any of the fuel families described in this section shall contact EPA at the address in § 79.59(a)(1) for further guidance in classifying and testing such formulation(s).
