
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.56 Fuel and fuel additive grouping system.
####### Baseline groups.

(i)(A) The Baseline Gasoline category comprises a single group. The gasoline base fuel specified in § 79.55(b) shall serve as the representative of this group.

(B) The Baseline Diesel category comprises a single group. The diesel base fuel specified in § 79.55(c) shall serve as the representative of this group.

(C) The Baseline Methanol category includes two groups: M100 and M85. The M100 group consists of methanol-gasoline formulations containing at least 96 percent methanol by volume. These formulations must contain odorants and bitterants (limited in elemental composition to carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, sulfur, and chlorine) for prevention of purposeful or inadvertent consumption. The M100 base fuel specified in § 79.55(d) shall serve as the representative for this group. The M85 group consists of methanol-gasoline formulations containing at least 50 percent by volume but less than 96 percent by volume methanol. The M85 base fuel specified in § 79.55(d) shall serve as the representative of this group.

(D) The Baseline Ethanol category comprises a single group. The E85 base fuel specified in § 79.55(e) shall serve as the representative of this group.

(E) The Baseline Methane category comprises a single group. The CNG base fuel specified in § 79.55(f) shall serve as the representative of this group.

(F) The Baseline Propane category comprises a single group. The LPG base fuel specified in § 79.55(g) shall serve as the representative of this group.
