
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method)
###### Static Calibration Procedure

10.2(Option 1). Prepare a dilute working sulfite-TCM solution by diluting 10 mL of the working sulfite-TCM solution (Section 8.2.11) to 100 mL with TCM absorbing reagent. Following the table below, accurately pipet the indicated volumes of the sulfite-TCM solutions into a series of 25-mL volumetric flasks. Add TCM absorbing reagent as indicated to bring the volume in each flask to 10 mL.

To each volumetric flask, add 1 mL 0.6% sulfamic acid (Section 8.2.1), accurately pipet 2 mL 0.2% formaldehyde solution (Section 8.2.2), then add 5 mL pararosaniline solution (Section 8.2.13). Start a laboratory timer that has been set for 30 minutes. Bring all flasks to volume with recently boiled and cooled distilled water and mix thoroughly. The color must be developed (during the 30-minute period) in a temperature environment in the range of 20&#xB0; to 30 &#xB0;C, which is controlled to +/-1 &#xB0;C. For increased precision, a constant temperature bath is recommended during the color development step. After 30 minutes, determine the corrected absorbance of each standard at 548 nm against a distilled water reference (Section 10.1). Denote this absorbance as (A). Distilled water is used in the reference cell rather than the reagant blank because of the temperature sensitivity of the reagent blank. Calculate the total micrograms SOin each solution:

A calibration equation is determined using the method of linear least squares (Section 12.1). The total micrograms SOcontained in each solution is the x variable, and the corrected absorbance (eq. 10) associated with each solution is the y variable. For the calibration to be valid, the slope must be in the range of 0.030 +/-0.002 absorbance unit/µg SO, the intercept as determined by the least squares method must be equal to or less than 0.170 absorbance unit when the color is developed at 22 &#xB0;C (add 0.015 to this 0.170 specification for each &#xB0;C above 22 &#xB0;C) and the correlation coefficient must be greater than 0.998. If these criteria are not met, it may be the result of an impure dye and/or an improperly standardized sulfite-TCM solution. A calibration factor (B) is determined by calculating the reciprocal of the slope and is subsequently used for calculating the sample concentration (Section 12.3).
