
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.57 Emission generation.
####### Vehicle and engine selection criteria.

(a)(1) All vehicles and engines used to generate emissions for testing a fuel or additive/fuel mixture must be new (i.e., never before titled) and placed into the program with less than 500 miles on the odometer or 12 hours on the engine chronometer. The vehicles and engines shall be unaltered from the specifications of the original equipment manufacturer.

(2) The vehicle/engine type, vehicle/engine class, and vehicle/engine subclass designated to generate emissions for a given fuel or additive shall be the same type, class, and subclass which, over the previous three years, has consumed the most gallons of fuel in the fuel family applicable to the given fuel or additive. No distinction shall be made between light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks for purposes of this classification.

(3) Within this vehicle/engine type, class, and subclass, the specific vehicles and engines acceptable for emission generation are those that represent the most common fuel metering system and the most common of the most important emission control system devices or characteristics with respect to emission reduction performance for the model year in which testing begins. These vehicles will be determined through a survey of the previous model year's vehicle/engine sales within the given subclass. These characteristics shall include, but need not be limited to, aftertreatment device(s), fuel aspiration, air injection, exhaust gas recirculation, and feedback type.

(4) Within the applicable subclass, the five highest selling vehicle/engine models that contain the most common such equipment and characteristics shall be determined. Any of these five models of the current model year (at the time testing begins) may be selected for emission generation.

(i) If one or more of the five models is not available for the current model year, the choice of model for emission generation shall be limited to those remaining among the five.

(ii) If fewer than five models of the given vehicle/engine type are available for the current model year, all such models shall be eligible.

(5) When the fuel or fuel additive undergoing testing is not commonly used or intended to be used in the vehicle/engine types prescribed by this selection procedure, or when rebuilding or alteration is required to obtain a suitable vehicle/engine for emission generation, the manufacturer may submit a request to EPA for a modification in test procedure requirements. Any such request must include objective test results which support the claim that a more appropriate vehicle/engine type is needed as well as a suggested substitute vehicle/engine type. The vehicle/engine selection in this case shall be approved by EPA prior to the start of testing.

(6) Once a particular model has been chosen on which to test a fuel or additive product, all mileage accumulation and generation of emissions for characterization and biological testing of such product shall be conducted on that same model.

(i) If the initial test vehicle/engine fails or must be replaced for any reason, emission generation shall continue with a second vehicle/engine which is identical to, or resembles to the greatest extent possible, the initial test vehicle/engine. If more than one replacement vehicle/engine is necessary, all such vehicles/engines shall be identical, or resemble to the greatest extent possible, the initial test vehicle/engine.

(ii) Manufacturers are encouraged to obtain, at the start of a test program, more than one emission generation vehicle/engine of the identical model, to ensure the availability of back-up emission generator(s). All backup vehicles/engines must be conditioned and must have their emissions fully characterized, as done for the initial test vehicle/engine, prior to their use as emission generators for biological testing. Alternating between such vehicles/engines regularly during the course of testing is permissible and advisable, particularly to allow regular maintenance on such vehicles/engines during prolonged health effects testing.
