
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.57 Emission generation.
####### Generating whole combustion emissions for biological testing.

(2)(i) Biological tests requiring whole combustion emissions shall be conducted using emissions generated from the test vehicle or engine operated in accordance with general FTP requirements.

(ii) Light-duty test vehicles/engines shall be repeatedly operated over the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (UDDS) (or equivalent engine dynamometer trace, per paragraph (e)(1)(i)(A) of this section) and heavy-duty test engines shall be repeatedly operated over the Engine Dynamometer Schedule (EDS) (see 40 CFR part 86, appendix I).

(A) The tolerances of the driving cycle shall be two times those of the Federal Test Procedure and must be met 95 percent of the time.

(B) The UDDS or EDS shall be repeated as many times as required for the biological test session.

(C) Light-duty dynamometers shall be calibrated prior to the start of a biological test (40 CFR 86.118-78), verified weekly (40 CFR 86.118-78), and recalibrated as required. Heavy-duty dynamometers shall be calibrated and checked prior to the start of a biological test (40 CFR 86.1318-84), recalibrated every two weeks (40 CFR 86.1318-84(a)) and checked as stated in 40 CFR 86.1318-84(b) and (c).

(D) The fuel reservoir for the test vehicle/engine shall be large enough to operate the test vehicle/engine throughout the daily biological exposure period, avoiding the need for refueling during testing.

(iii) An apparatus to integrate the large concentration swings typical of transient-cycle exhaust is to be used between the source of emissions and the exposure chamber containing the animal test cages(s). The purpose of such apparatus is to decrease the variability of the biological exposure atmosphere and achieve the necessary concentration of CO or NO, whichever is limiting.

(A) A large mixing chamber is suggested for this purpose. The mixing chamber would be charged from the CVS at a constant rate determined by the exposure chamber purge rate. Flow to the exposure chamber would begin at the conclusion of the initial transient cycle with the associated mixing chamber charge.

(B) A potential alternative apparatus is a mini-diluter (see, for example, AIGER/CRADA, February, 1994 in ยง 79.57(g)).

(C) [Reserved]
