
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.57 Emission generation.
####### Emission collection and storage.

(iv)(A) Vapor phase emissions shall be collected and stored in Tedlar bags for subsequent chemical analysis. Storage conditions are specified in ยง 79.52(b)(2).

(B) Particulate phase emissions shall be collected on a particulate filter (or more than one, if required) using methods described in 40 CFR 86.1301 through 86.1344. These methods, ordinarily applied only to heavy-duty emissions, are to be adapted and used for collection of particulates from light-duty vehicles/engines, as well. The particulate matter may be stored on the filter in a sealed container, or the soluble organic fraction may be extracted and stored in a separate sealed container. Both the particulate and the extract shall be shielded from ultraviolet light and stored at -20 &#xB0;C or less. Particulate emissions shall be tested no later than six months from the date they were generated.

(C) Semi-volatile emissions shall be collected immediately downstream from the particulate collection filters using porous polymer resin beds, or their equivalent, designed for their capture. The soluble organic fraction of semi-volatile emissions shall be extracted immediately and tested within six months of being generated. The extract shall be stored in a sealed container which is shielded from ultraviolet light and stored at -20 &#xB0;C or less.

(D) Particulate and semi-volatile phase emission collection, handling and extraction methods shall not alter the composition of the collected material, to the extent possible.

(v) Additional requirements for combustion emission sampling, storage, and characterization are specified in ยง 79.52(b).
