
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method)
###### Dynamic Calibration Procedures,19,20,21

10.3(Option 2). Atmospheres containing accurately known concentrations of sulfur dioxide are prepared using permeation devices. In the systems for generating these atmospheres, the permeation device emits gaseous SOat a known, low, constant rate, provided the temperature of the device is held constant (+/-0.1 &#xB0;C) and the device has been accurately calibrated at the temperature of use. The SOpermeating from the device is carried by a low flow of dry carrier gas to a mixing chamber where it is diluted with SO-free air to the desired concentration and supplied to a vented manifold. A typical system is shown schematically in Figure 4 and this system and other similar systems have been described in detail by O'Keeffe and Ortman; () Scaringelli, Frey, and Saltzman, () and Scaringelli, O'Keeffe, Rosenberg, and Bell. () Permeation devices may be prepared or purchased and in both cases must be traceable either to a National Bureau of Standards (NBS) Standard Reference Material (SRM 1625, SRM 1626, SRM 1627) or to an NBS/EPA-approved commercially available Certified Reference Material (CRM). CRM's are described in Reference 22, and a list of CRM sources is available from the address shown for Reference 22. A recommended protocol for certifying a permeation device to an NBS SRM or CRM is given in Section 2.0.7 of Reference 2. Device permeation rates of 0.2 to 0.4 µg/min, inert gas flows of about 50 mL/min, and dilution air flow rates from 1.1 to 15 L/min conveniently yield standard atmospheres in the range of 25 to 600 µg SO/m(0.010 to 0.230 ppm).
