
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.59 Reporting requirements.
####### Market distribution of the product.

(3)For fuels and bulk additives, this information shall be presented as the percent of total annual sales volume marketed in each Petroleum Administration for Defense District (PADD). The States comprising each PADD are listed in the following section. For aftermarket additives, the distribution data shall be presented as the percent of total annual sales volume marketed in each State. For a product not yet in production, the manufacturer shall present the distribution (by PADD or State, as applicable) projected to occur during the third year of production.

(i) The following States and jurisdictions are included in PADD I:

(ii) The following States are included in PADD II:

(iii) The following States are included in PADD III:

(iv) The following States are included in PADD IV:

(v) The following States are included in PADD V:

(4) Any applicable information pursuant to the grouping provisions in § 79.56, as follows:

(i) If the manufacturer has enrolled or intends to enroll the product in a fuel/additive group, the relevant group and the person(s) or entity expected to submit information on behalf of the group must be identified.

(ii) If the manufacturer intends to rely on registration information previously submitted by another manufacturer (or group) for registration of other product(s) in the same fuel/additive group, then the original submitter and its product (or product group) shall be identified. In such cases, the manufacturer shall provide evidence that the original submitter has been notified of the use of its registration data and that the manufacturer has complied or intends to comply with the proportional reimbursement required under § 79.56(c) of this rule.

(5) Any applicable information pursuant to the special provisions in § 79.58, as follows:

(i) If the manufacturer claims applicability of the special provisions for relabeled additives, pursuant to § 79.58(a), then the manufacturer and brand name of the original product shall be given.

(ii) If the manufacturer claims applicability of any small business provisions pursuant to § 79.58(d), the average of the manufacturer's total annual sales revenue for the previous three years shall be given.

(iii) If the manufacturer claims applicability of the special provisions for aerosol products, pursuant to § 79.58(e), then the purpose and recommended frequency of use shall be given.
