
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.59 Reporting requirements.
####### Timing.

(a)(1) The manufacturer of each designated fuel or fuel additive shall submit to EPA the basic registration data detailed in paragraph (b) of this section. Forms for submitting this data may be obtained from EPA at the following address: Attn: Fuel/Additives Registration, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Mail Code 6405A, Washington, DC 20460.

(i) For existing products (pursuant to § 79.51(c)(1)), manufacturers shall submit the basic registration data as specified in § 79.59(b) to EPA by November 28, 1994.

(ii) For registrable products (pursuant to § 79.51(c)(2)), manufacturers shall submit the basic registration data as specified in § 79.59(b) to apply for registration for such product.

(iii) For new products (pursuant to § 79.51(c)(3)), manufacturers are strongly encouraged to notify EPA of an intent to obtain product registration by submitting the basic registration data as specified in § 79.59(b) prior to starting Tiers 1 and 2.

(2) The information specified in paragraph (c) of this section shall be submitted to the address in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at the conclusion of activities performed in compliance with Tiers 1 and 2 under the provisions of §§ 79.52 and 79.53, according to the time constraints specified in § 79.51 (c) through (d).

(3) The information specified in paragraph (d) of this section shall be submitted to EPA at the address in paragraph (a)(1) of this section at the conclusion of activities performed in compliance with Tier 3 under the provisions of § 79.54.
