
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method)
###### i.e.

Be sure that the total flow rate of the standard exceeds the flow demand of the sample train, with the excess flow vented at atmospheric pressure. Sample each atmosphere using similar apparatus as shown in Figure 1 and under the same conditions as field sampling (, use same absorbing reagent volume and sample same volume of air at an equivalent flow rate). Due to the length of the sampling periods required, this method is not recommended for 24-hour sampling. At the completion of sampling, quantitatively transfer the contents of each impinger to one of a series of 25-mL volumetric flasks (if 10 mL of absorbing solution was used) using small amounts of distilled water for rinse (<5mL). If >10 mL of absorbing solution was used, bring the absorber solution in each impinger to orginal volume with distilled HO and pipet 10-mL portions from each impinger into a series of 25-mL volumetric flasks. If the color development steps are not to be started within 12 hours of sampling, store the solutions at 5&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. Calculate the total micrograms SOin each solution as follows:

Add the remaining reagents for color development in the same manner as in Section 10.2 for static solutions. Calculate a calibration equation and a calibration factor (B) according to Section 10.2, adhering to all the specified criteria.

10.3.2 Calibration Option 2B (24-hour samples): Generate a standard atmosphere containing approximately 1,050 µg SO/mand calculate the exact concentration according to equation 12. Set up a series of six absorbers according to Figure 2 and connect to a common manifold for sampling the standard atmosphere. Be sure that the total flow rate of the standard exceeds the flow demand at the sample manifold, with the excess flow vented at atmospheric pressure. The absorbers are then allowed to sample the atmosphere for varying time periods to yield solutions containing 0, 0.2, 0.6, 1.0, 1.4, 1.8, and 2.2 µg SO/mL solution. The sampling times required to attain these solution concentrations are calculated as follows:

At the completion of sampling, bring the absorber solutions to original volume with distilled water. Pipet a 10-mL portion from each absorber into one of a series of 25-mL volumetric flasks. If the color development steps are not to be started within 12 hours of sampling, store the solutions at 5&#xB0; +/-5 &#xB0;C. Add the remaining reagents for color development in the same manner as in Section 10.2 for static solutions. Calculate the total µg SOin each standard as follows:

Calculate a calibration equation and a calibration factor (B) according to Section 10.2 adhering to all the specified criteria.
