
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.58 Special provisions.
####### Provisions Applicable to Atypical Products.

(3)A manufacturer with total annual sales less than $10 million is not required to meet the requirements of Tier 2 (specified in § 79.53) in regard to such manufacturer's fuel and/or additive products which meet the criteria for inclusion in an Atypical group pursuant to § 79.56. Upon such manufacturer's satisfactory completion and submittal to EPA of basic registration data specified in § 79.59(b) and Tier 1 information specified in § 79.52 for an Atypical fuel or additive, the manufacturer may request and EPA shall issue a registration for such product, subject to § 79.51(c) and paragraphs (d)(4) and (d)(5) of this section. Compliance with Tier 1 requirements under this paragraph may be accomplished by the individual manufacturer or as a part of a group pursuant to § 79.56.

(4) Any registration granted by EPA under the provisions of this section are conditional upon satisfactory completion of any Tier 3 requirements which EPA may subsequently impose pursuant to § 79.54. In such circumstances, the Tier 3 requirements might include (but would not necessarily be limited to) information which would otherwise have been required under the provisions of Tier 1 and/or Tier 2.

(5) The provisions in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section are voluntary on the part of qualifying small manufacturers. Such manufacturers may choose to fulfill the standard requirements for their fuels and additives, individually or as a part of a group, rather than satisfying only the requirements specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and/or (d)(3) of this section. If a qualifying small manufacturer elects these special provisions rather than the standard requirements for a product, then EPA will generally assume that any additional information submitted by other manufacturers, for fuels and additives meeting the same grouping criteria (under § 79.56) as that of the small manufacturer's product, is pertinent to further testing and/or regulatory decisions that may affect the small manufacturer's product.

(6) In the case of an additive for which the manufacturer is not required to meet the requirements of Tier 2 pursuant to paragraph (d)(3) of this section:

(i) A fuel manufacturer which blends such an additive into fuel shall not be required to meet the requirements of Tier 2 with respect to such additive/fuel mixture.

(ii) An additive manufacturer which blends such an additive with one or more other registered additive products and/or with substances containing only carbon and/or hydrogen shall not be required to meet the requirements of Tier 2 with respect to such additive or additive blend.
