
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
####### Protocol for and conduct of a study,Protocol.

(g)-(1)(i) Each study shall have a written protocol that clearly indicates the objectives and all methods for the conduct of the study. The protocol shall contain but shall not be limited to the following information:

(A) A descriptive title and statement of the purpose of the study.

(B) Identification of the test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, and reference substance by name, chemical abstracts service (CAS) number or code number, as applicable.

(C) The name and address of the sponsor and the name and address of the testing facility at which the study is being conducted.

(D) The proposed experimental start and termination dates.

(E) Justification for selection of the test system, as necessary.

(F) Where applicable, the number, body weight, sex, source of supply, species, strain, substrain, and age of the test system.

(G) The procedure for identification of the test system.

(H) A description of the experimental design, including methods for the control of bias.

(I) Where applicable, a description and/or identification of the diet used in the study. The description shall include specifications for acceptable levels of contaminants that are reasonably expected to be present in the dietary materials and are known to be capable of interfering with the purpose or conduct of the study if present at levels greater than established by the specifications.

(J) Each concentration level, expressed in milligrams per cubic meter of air or other appropriate units, of the test or reference substance to be administered and the frequency of administration.

(K) The type and frequency of tests, analyses, and measurements to be made.

(L) The records to be maintained.

(M) The date of approval of the protocol by the sponsor and the dated signature of the study director.

(N) A statement of the proposed statistical method.

(ii) All changes in or revisions of an approved protocol and the reasons therefor shall be documented, signed by the study director, dated, and maintained with the protocol.
