
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
####### Retention of records.

(3)(i) Record retention requirements set forth in this section do not supersede the record retention requirements of any other regulations in this subchapter.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3)(iii) of this section, documentation records, raw data, and specimens pertaining to a study and required to be retained by this part shall be archived for a period of at least ten years following the completion of the study.

(iii) Wet specimens, samples of test fuel, additive/base fuel mixtures, or reference substances, and specially prepared material which are relatively fragile and differ markedly in stability and quality during storage, shall be retained only as long as the quality of the preparation affords evaluation. Specimens obtained from mutagenicity tests, wet specimens of blood, urine, feces, biological fluids, do not need to be retained after quality assurance verification. In no case shall retention be required for a longer period than that set forth in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The master schedule sheet, copies of protocols, and records of quality assurance inspections, as required by ยง 79.60(b)(4)(iii) shall be maintained by the quality assurance unit as an easily accessible system of records for the period of time specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.

(v) Summaries of training and experience and job descriptions required to be maintained by ยง 79.60(b)(1)(ii) may be retained along with all other testing facility employment records for the length of time specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.

(vi) Records and reports of the maintenance and calibration and inspection of equipment, as required by ยง 79.60(d)(2) (ii) and (iii), shall be retained for the length of time specified in paragraph (h)(3)(ii) of this section.

(vii) If a facility conducting testing or an archive contracting facility goes out of business, all raw data, documentation, and other material specified in this section shall be transferred to the sponsor of the study for archival.

(viii) Records required by this section may be retained either as original records or as true copies such as photocopies, microfilm, microfiche, or other accurate reproductions of the original records.
