
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
####### Storage and retrieval of records and data.

(2)(i) All raw data, documentation, records, protocols, specimens, and final reports generated as a result of a study shall be retained. Specimens obtained from mutagenicity tests, wet specimens of blood, urine, feces, and biological fluids, do not need to be retained after quality assurance verification. Correspondence and other documents relating to interpretation and evaluation of data, other than those documents contained in the final report, also shall be retained.

(ii) All raw data, documentation, protocols, specimens, and interim and final reports shall be archived for orderly storage and expedient retrieval. Conditions of storage shall minimize deterioration of the documents or specimens in accordance with the requirements for the time period of their retention and the nature of the documents of specimens. A testing facility may contract with commercial archives to provide a repository for all material to be retained. Raw data and specimens may be retained elsewhere provided that the archives have specific reference to those other locations.

(iii) An individual shall be identified as responsible for the archiving of records.

(iv) Access to archived material shall require authorization and documentation.

(v) Archived material shall be indexed to permit expedient retrieval.
