
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
####### i.e.,,i.e.,

(H) A description of the concentration regimen as daily exposure period,number of hours, and exposure duration,number of days.

(I) A description of all circumstances that may have affected the quality or integrity of the data.

(J) The name of the study director, the names of other scientists or professionals and the names of all supervisory personnel, involved in the study.

(K) A description of the transformations, calculations, or operations performed on the data, a summary and analysis of the data, and a statement of the conclusions drawn from the analysis.

(L) The signed and dated reports of each of the individual scientists or other professionals involved in the study, including each person who, at the request or direction of the testing facility or sponsor, conducted an analysis or evaluation of data or specimens from the study after data generation was completed.

(M) The locations where all specimens, raw data, and the final report are to be kept or stored.

(N) The statement, prepared and signed by the quality assurance unit, as described in ยง 79.60(b)(4)(i)(G).

(ii) The final report shall be signed and dated by the study director.

(iii) Corrections or additions to a final report shall be in the form of an amendment by the study director. The amendment shall clearly identify that part of the final report that is being added to or corrected and the reasons for the correction or addition, and shall be signed and dated by the person responsible. Modification of a final report to comply with the submission requirements of EPA does not constitute a correction, addition, or amendment to a final report.

(iv) A copy of the final report and of any amendment to it shall be maintained by the sponsor and the test facility.
