
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
####### Records and Reports,Reporting of study results.

(h)-(1)(i) A final report shall be prepared for each study and shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the following:

(A) Name and address of the facility performing the study and the dates on which the study was initiated and was completed, terminated, or discontinued.

(B) Objectives and procedures stated in the approved protocol, including any changes in the original protocol.

(C) Statistical methods employed for analyzing the data.

(D) The test fuel, additive/base fuel mixture, and test and reference substances identified by name, chemical abstracts service (CAS) number or code number, strength, purity, content, or other appropriate characteristics.

(E) Stability, and when relevant to the conduct of the study, the solubility of the test emissions and reference substances under the conditions of administration.

(F) A description of the methods used.

(G) A description of the test system used. Where applicable, the final report shall include the number of animals or other test organisms used, sex, body weight range, source of supply, species, strain and substrain, age, and procedure used for identification.
