
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.60 Good laboratory practices (GLP) standards for inhalation exposure health effects testing.
####### Test fuel, additive/base fuel mixture, and reference substance handling.

(2)Procedures shall be established for a system for the handling of the test fuel, fuel/additive mixture, and reference substance(s) to ensure that:

(i) There is proper storage.

(ii) Distribution is made in a manner designed to preclude the possibility of contamination, deterioration, or damage.

(iii) Proper identification is maintained throughout the distribution process.

(iv) The receipt and distribution of each batch is documented. Such documentation shall include the date and quantity of each batch distributed or returned.

(3) Mixtures of test emissions or reference solutions with carriers.

(i) For test emissions or each reference substance mixed with a carrier, tests by appropriate analytical methods shall be conducted:

(A) To determine the uniformity of the test substance and to determine, periodically, the concentration of the test emissions or reference substance in the mixture;

(B) When relevant to the conduct of the experiment, to determine the solubility of each reference substance in the carrier mixture before the experimental start date; and

(C) To determine the stability of test emissions or a reference solution in the test substance before the experimental start date or concomitantly according to written standard operating procedures, which provide for periodic analysis of each batch.

(ii) Where any of the components of the reference substance/carrier mixture has an expiration date, that date shall be clearly shown on the container. If more than one component has an expiration date, the earliest date shall be shown.

(iii) If a chemical or physical agent is used to facilitate the mixing of a test substance with a carrier, assurance shall be provided that the agent does not interfere with the integrity of the test.
