
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.61 Vehicle emissions inhalation exposure guideline.
####### Safety procedures and requirements.

(8)In the case of potentially explosive test substance concentrations, care shall be taken to avoid generating explosive atmospheres.

(i) It is mandatory that the upper explosive limit (UEL) and lower explosive limit (LEL) for the fuel and/or fuel additive(s) that are being tested be determined. These limits can be found in the material safety data sheets (MSDS) for each substance and in various reference texts. The air concentration of the fuel or additive-base fuel mixture in the generation system, dilution/delivery system, and the exposure chamber system shall be calculated to ensure that explosive limits are not present.

(ii) Storage, handling, and use of fuels or fuel/additive mixtures shall follow guidelines given in 29 CFR 1910.106.

(iii) Monitoring for carbon monoxide (CO) levels is mandatory for combustion systems. CO shall be continuously monitored in the immediate area of the engine/vehicle system and in the exposure chamber(s).

(iv) Air samples shall be taken quarterly in the immediate area of the vapor generation system and the exposure chamber system, or once at the beginning, middle, and end of the study for shorter studies. These samples shall be analyzed by methods described in paragraph (d)(6)(ii)(B) of this section.

(v) With the presence of fuels and/or fuel additives, all electrical and electronic equipment must be grounded. Also, the dilution/delivery system and chamber exposure system must be grounded. Guidelines for grounding are given in 29 CFR 1910.304.
