
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix A-2 to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method)
###### Atmospheric Environment,

3. Dasqupta, P. K., and K. B. DeCesare. Stability of Sulfur Dioxide in Formaldehyde and Its Anomalous Behavior in Tetrachloromercurate (II). Submitted for publication in1982.

4. West, P. W., and G. C. Gaeke. Fixation of Sulfur Dioxide as Disulfitomercurate (II) and Subsequent Colorimetric Estimation. Anal. Chem., 28:1816, 1956.

5. Ephraim, F. Inorganic Chemistry. P. C. L. Thorne and E. R. Roberts, Eds., 5th Edition, Interscience, 1948, p. 562.

6. Lyles, G. R., F. B. Dowling, and V. J. Blanchard. Quantitative Determination of Formaldehyde in the Parts Per Hundred Million Concentration Level. J. Air. Poll. Cont. Assoc., Vol. 15(106), 1965.

7. McKee, H. C., R. E. Childers, and O. Saenz, Jr. Collaborative Study of Reference Method for Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method). EPA-APTD-0903, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, September 1971.

8. Urone, P., J. B. Evans, and C. M. Noyes. Tracer Techniques in Sulfur-Air Pollution Studies Apparatus and Studies of Sulfur Dioxide Colorimetric and Conductometric Methods. Anal. Chem., 37: 1104, 1965.

9. Bostrom, C. E. The Absorption of Sulfur Dioxide at Low Concentrations (pphm) Studied by an Isotopic Tracer Method. Intern. J. Air Water Poll., 9:333, 1965.

10. Scaringelli, F. P., B. E. Saltzman, and S. A. Frey. Spectrophotometric Determination of Atmospheric Sulfur Dioxide. Anal. Chem., 39: 1709, 1967.

11. Pate, J. B., B. E. Ammons, G. A. Swanson, and J. P. Lodge, Jr. Nitrite Interference in Spectrophotometric Determination of Atmospheric Sulfur Dioxide. Anal. Chem., 37:942, 1965.

12. Zurlo, N., and A. M. Griffini. Measurement of the Sulfur Dioxide Content of the Air in the Presence of Oxides of Nitrogen and Heavy Metals. Medicina Lavoro, 53:330, 1962.

13. Rehme, K. A., and F. P. Scaringelli. Effect of Ammonia on the Spectrophotometric Determination of Atmospheric Concentrations of Sulfur Dioxide. Anal. Chem., 47:2474, 1975.

14. McCoy, R. A., D. E. Camann, and H. C. McKee. Collaborative Study of Reference Method for Determination of Sulfur Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Pararosaniline Method) (24-Hour Sampling). EPA-650/4-74-027, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, December 1973.

15. Fuerst, R. G. Improved Temperature Stability of Sulfur Dioxide Samples Collected by the Federal Reference Method. EPA-600/4-78-018, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, April 1978.

16. Scaringelli, F. P., L. Elfers, D. Norris, and S. Hochheiser. Enhanced Stability of Sulfur Dioxide in Solution. Anal. Chem., 42:1818, 1970.

17. Martin, B. E. Sulfur Dioxide Bubbler Temperature Study. EPA-600/4-77-040, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, August 1977.

18. American Society for Testing and Materials. ASTM Standards, Water; Atmospheric Analysis. Part 23. Philadelphia, PA, October 1968, p. 226.

19. O'Keeffe, A. E., and G. C. Ortman. Primary Standards for Trace Gas Analysis. Anal. Chem., 38:760, 1966.

20. Scaringelli, F. P., S. A. Frey, and B. E. Saltzman. Evaluation of Teflon Permeation Tubes for Use with Sulfur Dioxide. Amer. Ind. Hygiene Assoc. J., 28:260, 1967.

21. Scaringelli, F. P., A. E. O'Keeffe, E. Rosenberg, and J. P. Bell, Preparation of Known Concentrations of Gases and Vapors With Permeation Devices Calibrated Gravimetrically. Anal. Chem., 42:871, 1970.

22. A Procedure for Establishing Traceability of Gas Mixtures to Certain National Bureau of Standards Standard Reference Materials. EPA-600/7-81-010, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory (MD-77), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, January 1981.
