
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.63 Fertility assessment/teratology.
####### Test performance,Study conduct.

(f)-(1)Directions specific to this study are:

(i) The duration of exposure shall be at least six hours daily, allowing appropriate additional time for chamber equilibrium.

(ii) Where an exposure chamber is used, its design shall minimize crowding of the test animals. This is best accomplished by individual caging.

(iii) Pregnant animals shall not be subjected to beyond the minimum amount of stress. Since whole-body exposure appears to be the least stressful mode of exposure, it is the preferred method. In general oronasal or head-only exposure, which is sometimes used to avoid concurrent exposure by the dermal or oral routes, is not recommended because of the associated stress accompanying the restraining of the animals. However, there may be specific instances where it may be more appropriate than whole-body exposure. The tester shall provide justification/reasoning for its selection.

(iv) Measurements shall be made at least every other day of food consumption for all animals in the study. Males and females shall be weighed on the first day of exposure and 2-3 times per week thereafter, except for pregnant dams.

(v) The test animal housing, mating, and exposure chambers shall be operated on a twenty-four hour lighting schedule, with twelve hours of light and twelve hours of darkness. Test animal exposure shall only occur during the light portion of the cycle.

(vi) Signs of toxicity shall be recorded as they are observed including the time of onset, degree, and duration.

(vii) Females showing signs of abortion or premature delivery shall be sacrificed and subjected to a thorough macroscopic examination.

(viii) Animals that die or are euthanized because of morbidity will be necropsied promptly.
