
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.63 Fertility assessment/teratology.
####### Individual animal data.

(1)(i) Time of death during the study or whether animals survived to termination.

(ii) Date of onset and duration of each abnormal sign and its subsequent course.

(iii) Feed and body weight data.

(iv) Necropsy findings.

(v) Male test subjects.

(A) Testicle weight, and body weight: testicle weight ratio.

(B) Detailed description of all histopathological findings, especially for the testes and the epididymides.

(vi) Female test subjects.

(A) Uterine weight data.

(B) Beginning and ending collection dates for vaginal cell smears.

(C) Estrous cycle length compared within and between groups including mean cycle length for groups.

(D) Percentage of time spent in each stage of cycle.

(E) Stage of estrus at time of mating/sacrifice and proportion of females in estrus between concentration groups.

(F) Detailed description of all histopathological findings, especially for uterine/ovary samples.

(vii) Pregnancy and litter data. Toxic response data by exposure level, including but not limited to, indices of fertility and time-to-mating, including the number of days until mating and the number of full or partial estrous cycles until mating.

(A) Number of pregnant animals,

(B) Number and percentage of live fetuses, resorptions.
