
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### § 79.67 Glial fibrillary acidic protein assay.
####### Standard Incubation Conditions.,et al.

(viii)These conditions have been described by Jahn(1984) in paragraph (e)(2) of this section. All steps are carried out at room temperature on a flat shaking platform (one complete excursion every 2-3 seconds). For best results, do not use rocking or orbital shakers. Perform the following steps in enough solution to cover the nitrocellulose sheets to a depth of 1 cm.

(A) Incubate 20 minutes in fixer (25 percent (v/v) isopropanol, 10 percent (v/v) acetic acid).

(B) Discard fixer, wash several times in deionized water to eliminate the fixer, and then incubate for 5 minutes in Tris-buffered saline (TBS): 200 mM NaCL, 60 mM Tris-HCl to pH 7.4.

(C) Discard TBS and incubate 1 hour in blocking solution (0.5 percent gelatin (w/v)) in TBS.

(D) Discard blocking solution and incubate for 2 hours in antibody solution (anti-GFAP antiserum diluted to the desired dilution in blocking solution containing 0.1 percent Triton X-100). Serum anti-bovine GFAP, which cross reacts with GFAP from rodents and humans, can be obtained commercially (e.g., Dako Corp.) and used at a dilution of 1:500.

(E) Discard antibody solution, and wash in 4 changes of TBS for 5 minutes each time. Then wash in TBS for 10 minutes.

(F) Discard TBS and incubate in blocking solution for 30 minutes.

(G) Discard blocking solution and incubate for 1 hour in Protein A solution ([I]-labeled Protein A diluted in blocking solution containing 0.1 percent Triton X-100, sufficient to produce 2000 counts per minute (cpm) per 10 µl of Protein A solution).

(H) Remove Protein A solution (it may be reused once). Wash in 0.1 percent Triton X-100 in TBS (TBSTX) for 5 minutes, 4 times. Then wash in TBSTX for 2-3 hours for 4 additional times. An overnight wash in a larger volume can be used to replace the last 4 washes.

(I) Hang sheets to air-dry. Cut out squares or spots and count radioactivity in a gamma counter.
