
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.67 Glial fibrillary acidic protein assay.
####### References.

(e)For additional background information on this test guideline the following references should be consulted.

(1) Brock, T.O and O'Callaghan, J.P. 1987. Quantitative changes in the synaptic vesicle proteins, synapsin I and p38 and the astrocyte specific protein, glial fibrillary acidic protein, are associated with chemical-induced injury to the rat central nervous system, J. Neurosci. 7:931-942.

(2) Jahn, R., Schiebler, W. Greengard, P. 1984. A quantitative dot-immunobinding assay for protein using nitrocellulose membrane filters. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 81:1684-1687.

(3) O'Callaghan, J.P. 1988. Neurotypic and gliotypic protein as biochemical markers of neurotoxicity. Neurotoxicol. Teratol. 10:445-452.

(4) O'Callaghan, J.P. 1991. Quantification of glial fibrillary acidic protein: comparison of slot-immunobinding assays with a novel sandwich ELISA. Neurotoxicol. Teratol. 13:275-281.

(5) O'Callaghan, J.P. and Miller, D.B. 1985. Cerebellar hypoplasia in the Gunn rat is associated with quantitative changes in neurotypic and gliotypic proteins. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 234:522-532.

(6) Sette, W.F. "Pesticide Assessment Guidelines, Subdivision 'F', Hazard Evaluation: Human and Domestic Animals, Addendum 10, Neurotoxicity, Series 81, 82, and 83" US-EPA, Office of Pesticide Programs, EPA-540/09-91-123, March 1991.

(7) Smith, P.K., Krohn, R.I., Hermanson, G.T., Mallia, A.K., Gartner, F.H., Provenzano, M.D., Fujimoto, E.K., Goeke, N.M., Olson, B.J., Klenk, D.C. 1985. Measurement of protein using bicinchoninic acid. Annal. Biochem. 150:76-85.
