
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 79 - REGISTRATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart F - Testing Requirements for Registration
###### ยง 79.67 Glial fibrillary acidic protein assay.
####### References.
######## Salmonella typhimurium

(8) Claxton, L., Houk, V.S., Warner, J.R., Myers, L.E., Hughes, T.J., "Assessing the use of known mutagens to calibrate themutagenicity assay: II. With exogenous activation." Mutation Research 253:149-159 (1991).

(9) Claxton, L., Creason, J., Lares, B., Augurell, E., Bagley, S., Bryant, D.W., Courtois, Y.A., Douglas, G., Clare, C.B., Goto, S., Quillardet, P., Jagannath, D.R., Mohn, G., Neilsen, P.A., Ohnishi, Y., Ong, T., Pederson, T.C., Shimizu, H., Nylund, L., Tokiwa, H., Vink, I.G.R., Wang, Y., Warshawsky, D., "Results of the IPCS Collaborative Study on Complex Mixtures" Mutation Research 276:23-32 (1992).

(10) Claxton, L., Douglas, G., Krewski, D., Lewtas, J., Matsushita, H., Rosenkranz, H., "Overview, conclusions, and recommendations of the IPCS Collaborative Study on Complex Mixtures" Mutation Research 276:61-80 (1992).

(11) Houk, V.S., Schalkowsky, S., and Claxton, L.D., "Development and Validation of the Spiral Salmonella Assay: An Automated Approach to Bacterial Mutagenicity Testing" Mutation Research 223:49-64 (1989).

(12) Jones, E., Richold, M., May, J.H., and Saje, A. "The Assessment of the Mutagenic Potential of Vehicle Engine Exhaust in the Ames Salmonella Assay Using a Direct Exposure Method" Mutation Research 97:35-40 (1985).

(13) Maron, D., and Ames, B. N., Revised methods for the Salmonella mutagenicity test, Mutation Research, 113:173-212 (1983).
