
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions
###### ยง 80.7 Requests for information.

(a) When the Administrator, the Regional Administrator, or their delegates have reason to believe that a violation of section 211(c) or section 211(n) of the Act and the regulations thereunder has occurred, they may require any refiner, distributor, wholesale purchaser-consumer, or retailer to report the following information regarding receipt, transfer, delivery, or sale of gasoline represented to be unleaded gasoline and to allow the reproduction of such information at all reasonable times.

(1) For any bulk shipment of gasoline represented to be unleaded gasoline which is transferred, sold, or delivered within the previous 6 months by a refiner or a distributor to a distributor, wholesale purchaser-consumer or a retail outlet, the refiner or distributor shall maintain and provide the following information as applicable:

(i) Business or corporate name and address of distributors, wholesale purchaser-consumers or retail outlets to which the gasoline has been transferred, sold, or delivered.

(ii) Quantity of gasoline involved.

(iii) Date of delivery.

(iv) Storage location of gasoline prior to transit via delivery vessel (e.g., location of a bulk terminal).

(v) Business or corporate name and address of the person who delivered the gasoline.

(vi) Identification of delivery vessel (e.g., truck number). This information shall be supplied by the person in paragraph (a)(1)(v) of this section who performed the delivery, e.g., common or contract carrier.

(2) For any bulk shipment of gasoline represented to be unleaded gasoline received by a retail outlet or a wholesale-purchaser-consumer facility within the previous 6 months, whether by purchase or otherwise, the retailer or wholesale purchaser-consumer shall maintain accessibility to and provide the following information:

(i) Business or corporate name and address of the distributor.

(ii) Quantity of gasoline received.

(iii) Date of receipt.

(b) Upon request by the Administrator, the Regional Administrator, or their delegates, any retailer shall provide documentation of his annual total sales volume in gallons of gasoline for each retail outlet for each calendar year beginning with 1971.

(c) Any refiner, distributor, wholesale purchaser-consumer, retailer, or importer shall provide such other information as the Administrator or his authorized representative may reasonably require to enable him to determine whether such refiner, distributor, wholesale purchaser-consumer, retailer, or importer has acted or is acting in compliance with sections 211(c) and 211(n) of the Act and the regulations thereunder and shall, upon request of the Administrator or his authorized representative, produce and allow reproduction of any relevant records at all reasonable times. Such information may include but is not limited to records of unleaded gasoline inventory at a wholesale purchaser-consumer facility or a retail outlet, unleaded pump meter readings at a wholesale purchaser-consumer facility or a retail outlet, and receipts providing the date of acquisition of signs, labels, and nozzles required by 40 CFR 1090.1550. No person shall be required to furnish information requested under this paragraph if he can establish that such information is not maintained in the normal course of his business.
