
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1415 How are equivalence values assigned to renewable fuel?
####### Calculation of new equivalence values.

(c)(1) The equivalence value for renewable fuels described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section shall be calculated using the following formula:

(2) The application for an equivalence value shall include a technical justification that includes all the following:

(i) A calculation for the requested equivalence value according to the equation in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, including supporting documentation for the value of EC used in the calculation such as a certificate of analysis from a laboratory that verifies the lower heating value in Btu per gallon of the renewable fuel produced.

(ii) For each feedstock, biointermediate, component, or additive that is used to make the renewable fuel, provide a description, the percent input, and identify whether or not it is renewable biomass or is derived from renewable biomass.

(iii) For each feedstock or biointermediate that also qualifies as a renewable fuel, state whether or not RINs have been previously generated for such feedstock.

(iv) A description of the renewable fuel and the production process, including a block diagram that shows all inputs and outputs at each step of the production process with a sample quantity of all inputs and outputs for one batch of renewable fuel produced.

(3) The Agency will review the technical justification and assign an appropriate equivalence value to the renewable fuel based on the procedure in this paragraph (c).

(4) Applications for equivalence values must be sent to the attention of "RFS2 Program (Equivalence Value Application)" to the address in ยง 80.10(a).

(5) All applications required under this section shall be submitted on forms and following procedures prescribed by the Administrator.
