
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1425 Renewable Identification Numbers (RINs).

RINs generated on or after July 1, 2010 shall not be generated as a 38-digit code, but shall be identified by the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section and introduced into EMTS as data elements during the generation of RINs pursuant to § 80.1452(b). For RINs generated prior to July 1, 2010, each RIN is a 38-digit code of the following form:

(a) K is a number identifying the type of RIN as follows:

(1) K has the value of 1 when the RIN is assigned to a volume of renewable fuel pursuant to § 80.1426(e) and § 80.1428(a).

(2) K has the value of 2 when the RIN has been separated from a volume of renewable fuel pursuant to § 80.1429.

(b) YYYY is the calendar year in which the RIN was generated.

(c) CCCC is the registration number assigned, according to § 80.1450, to the producer or importer of the batch of renewable fuel.

(d) FFFFF is the registration number assigned, according to § 80.1450, to the facility at which the batch of renewable fuel was produced or imported.

(e) BBBBB is a serial number assigned to the batch which is chosen by the producer or importer of the batch such that no two batches have the same value in a given calendar year.

(f) RR is a number representing 10 times the equivalence value of the renewable fuel as specified in § 80.1415.

(g) D is a number determined according to § 80.1426(f) and identifying the type of renewable fuel, as follows:

(1) D has the value of 3 to denote fuel categorized as cellulosic biofuel.

(2) D has the value of 4 to denote fuel categorized as biomass-based diesel.

(3) D has the value of 5 to denote fuel categorized as advanced biofuel.

(4) D has the value of 6 to denote fuel categorized as renewable fuel.

(5) D has the value of 7 to denote fuel categorized as cellulosic diesel.

(h) SSSSSSSS is a number representing the first gallon-RIN associated with a batch of renewable fuel.

(i) EEEEEEEE is a number representing the last gallon-RIN associated with a volume of renewable fuel.
