
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1407 How are the Renewable Volume Obligations calculated?
####### MVNRLM diesel fuel

(e) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, all products meeting the definition ofat § 80.2 that are produced or imported during a compliance period, collectively called "diesel fuel" for the purposes of this section (unless otherwise specified), are to be included (but not double-counted) in the volume used to calculate a party's Renewable Volume Obligations under paragraph (a) of this section.

(f) The following products are not included in the volume of gasoline or diesel fuel produced or imported used to calculate a party's Renewable Volume Obligations according to paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) Any renewable fuel. Renewable fuel for which a RIN is invalidly generated under § 80.1431 may not be excluded from a party's renewable volume obligations.

(2) Blendstock that has not been combined with other blendstock, finished gasoline, or diesel to produce gasoline or diesel.

(3) Gasoline or diesel fuel produced or imported for use in Alaska, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, unless the area has opted into the RFS program under § 80.1443.

(4) Gasoline or diesel fuel produced by a small refinery that has an exemption under § 80.1441 or an approved small refiner that has an exemption under § 80.1442.

(5) Gasoline or diesel fuel exported for use outside the 48 United States and Hawaii, and gasoline or diesel fuel exported for use outside Alaska, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas, if the area has opted into the RFS program under § 80.1443.

(6) For blenders, the volume of finished gasoline, finished diesel fuel, RBOB, or CBOB to which a blender adds blendstocks.

(7) Transmix gasoline product (as defined in 40 CFR 1090.80) and transmix distillate product (as defined in 40 CFR 1090.80) produced by a transmix processor, and transmix blended into gasoline or diesel fuel by a transmix blender under 40 CFR 1090.500.

(8) Any gasoline or diesel fuel that is not transportation fuel.

(9) Distillate fuel with a sulfur content greater than 15 ppm that is clearly designated for a use other than transportation fuel, such as heating oil or ECA marine fuel.

(10) Distillate fuel that meets a 15 ppm sulfur standard, is designated for non-transportation use, and that remains completely segregated from MVNRLM diesel fuel from the point of production through to the point of use for a non-transportation purpose, such as heating oil or ECA marine fuel.

(11) Certified NTDF, if the refiner or importer has a reasonable expectation that the fuel will be used for non-transportation purposes. To establish a reasonable expectation that the fuel will be used for non-transportation purposes, a refiner or importer must, at a minimum, be able to demonstrate that they supply areas that use heating oil, ECA marine fuel, or 15 ppm distillate fuel for non-transportation purposes in quantities that are consistent with past practices or changed circumstances. EPA may consider any other relevant information, including the price of the fuel, in assessing whether a refiner or importer has a reasonable expectation that the fuel will be used for non-transportation purposes.
