
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1407 How are the Renewable Volume Obligations calculated?
####### Renewable fuel.

(4)

(b) The non-renewable gasoline volume, GV, for an obligated party for a given year as specified in paragraph (a) of this section is calculated as follows:

(c) Except as specified in paragraph (f) of this section, all of the following products that are produced or imported during a compliance period, collectively called "gasoline" for the purposes of this section (unless otherwise specified), are to be included (but not double-counted) in the volume used to calculate a party's Renewable Volume Obligations under paragraph (a) of this section, except as provided in paragraph (f) of this section:

(1) Reformulated gasoline, whether or not renewable fuel is later added to it.

(2) Conventional gasoline, whether or not renewable fuel is later added to it.

(3) Reformulated gasoline blendstock that becomes finished reformulated gasoline upon the addition of oxygenate (RBOB).

(4) Conventional gasoline blendstock that becomes finished conventional gasoline upon the addition of oxygenate (CBOB).

(5) Blendstock (including butane, pentane, and gasoline treated as blendstock (GTAB)) that has been combined with other blendstock and/or finished gasoline to produce gasoline.

(6) Any gasoline, or any unfinished gasoline that becomes finished gasoline upon the addition of oxygenate, that is produced or imported to comply with a state or local fuels program.

(d) The diesel non-renewable volume, DV, for an obligated party for a given year as specified in paragraph (a) of this section is calculated as follows:
