
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1426 How are RINs generated and assigned to batches of renewable fuel?
####### Definition of batch.

(d)(1)For the purposes of this section and ยง 80.1425, a "batch of renewable fuel" is a volume of renewable fuel that has been assigned a unique identifier within a calendar year by the producer or importer of the renewable fuel in accordance with the provisions of this section and ยง 80.1425.

(i) The number of gallon-RINs generated for a batch of renewable fuel may not exceed 99,999,999.

(ii) A batch of renewable fuel cannot represent renewable fuel produced or imported in excess of one calendar month.

(2) Multiple gallon-RINs generated to represent a given volume of renewable fuel can be represented by a single batch-RIN through the appropriate designation of the RIN volume codes SSSSSSSS and EEEEEEEE.

(i) The value of SSSSSSSS in the batch-RIN shall be 00000001 to represent the first gallon-RIN associated with the volume of renewable fuel.

(ii) The value of EEEEEEEE in the batch-RIN shall represent the last gallon-RIN associated with the volume of renewable fuel, based on the RIN volume Vdetermined pursuant to paragraph (f) of this section.

(iii) Under ยง 80.1452, RIN volumes will be managed by EMTS. RIN codes SSSSSSSS and EEEEEEEE do not have a role in EMTS.
