
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1426 How are RINs generated and assigned to batches of renewable fuel?
####### Cases in which RINs are not generated.

(c)(1) Fuel producers and importers may not generate RINs for fuel that does not satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(2) Pursuant to § 80.1455(a) and (b), renewable fuel producers that produce less than 10,000 gallons a year of renewable fuel, and importers that import less than 10,000 gallons a year of renewable fuel, are not required to generate and assign RINs to batches of renewable fuel that satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section that they produce or import.

(3) Pursuant to § 80.1455(c) and (d), new renewable fuel producers that produce less than 125,000 gallons of renewable fuel a year are not required to generate and assign RINs to batches of renewable fuel to satisfy the requirements of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(i) The provisions of this paragraph (c)(3) apply only to new facilities, for a maximum of three years beginning with the calendar year in which the production facility produces its first gallon of renewable fuel.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4) Importers shall not generate RINs for renewable fuel imported from a non-RIN-generating foreign renewable fuel producer unless the foreign renewable fuel producer is registered with EPA as required in § 80.1450.

(5) Importers shall not generate RINs for renewable fuel that has already been assigned RINs by a RIN-generating foreign renewable fuel producer.

(6) A party is prohibited from generating RINs for a volume of fuel that it produces if the fuel has been produced by a process that uses a renewable fuel as a feedstock, and the renewable fuel that is used as a feedstock was produced by another party, except that RINs may be generated for such fuel if allowed by the EPA in response to a petition submitted pursuant to § 80.1416 and the petition approval specifies a mechanism to prevent double counting of RINs.
