
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1426 How are RINs generated and assigned to batches of renewable fuel?
####### 4

() A volume of each composite sample must be retained for a minimum of two years, and be of sufficient volume to permit two additional tests to be conducted.

(iv) If the party is using the composite sampling approach according to paragraph (f)(9)(iii)(B) of this section, the party may estimate the value of R for use in generating RINs in the first month if all of the following conditions are met:

(A) The estimate of R for the first month is based on information on the composition of the feedstock;

(B) The party calculates R in the second month based on the application of a radiocarbon dating test on a composite sample pursuant to (f)(9)(iii)(B) of this section; and

(C) The party adjusts the value of R used to generate RINs in the second month using the following formula

(10)(i) For purposes of this section, electricity that is only distributed via a closed, private, non-commercial system is considered renewable fuel and RINs may be generated if all of the following apply:

(A) The electricity is produced from renewable biomass and qualifies for a D code in Table 1 to this section or has received approval for use of a D code by the Administrator.

(B) The RIN generator has documentation for the sale, if applicable, and use of a specific quantity of renewable electricity as transportation fuel, or has obtained affidavits from all parties selling or using the electricity as transportation fuel.

(C) The electricity is used as a transportation fuel and for no other purposes.

(ii) For purposes of this section, CNG or LNG produced from biogas that is only distributed via a closed, private, non-commercial system is considered renewable fuel for which RINs may be generated if all of the following apply:

(A) The CNG/LNG is produced from renewable biomass and qualifies for a D code in Table 1 to this section or has received approval for use of a D code by the Administrator.

(B) The RIN generator has entered into a written contract for the sale or use of a specific quantity of CNG/LNG to be used as transportation fuel, or obtained affidavits from all parties selling or using the CNG/LNG as transportation fuel.

(C) The CNG/LNG is used as a transportation fuel and for no other purposes.

(iii) A producer of electricity that is generated by co-firing a combination of renewable biomass and fossil fuel may generate RINs only for the portion attributable to the renewable biomass, using the procedure described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(11)(i) For purposes of this section, electricity that is introduced into a commercial distribution system (transmission grid) is considered renewable fuel for which RINs may be generated if all of the following apply:

(A) The electricity is produced from renewable biomass and qualifies for a D code in Table 1 of this section or has received approval for use of a D code by the Administrator.

(B) The RIN generator has documentation for the sale and use of a specific quantity of renewable electricity as transportation fuel, or has obtained affidavits from all parties selling or using the electricity as transportation fuel.

(C) The quantity of electricity for which RINs were generated was sold for use as transportation fuel and for no other purpose.

(D) The renewable electricity was loaded onto and withdrawn from a physically connected transmission grid.

(E) The amount of electricity sold for use as transportation fuel corresponds to the amount of electricity derived from biogas that was placed into the commercial distribution system.

(F) No other party relied upon the renewable electricity for the creation of RINs.

(ii) For purposes of this section, CNG or LNG produced from biogas that is introduced into a commercial distribution system is considered renewable fuel for which RINs may be generated if all the following apply:

(A) The fuel is produced from renewable biomass and qualifies for a D code in Table 1 to this section or has received approval for use of a D code by the Administrator.

(B) The RIN generator has entered into a written contract for the sale or use of a specific quantity of renewable CNG/LNG, taken from a commercial distribution system (e.g., physically connected pipeline, barge, truck, rail), for use as a transportation fuel, or has obtained affidavits from all parties selling or using the CNG/LNG taken from a commercial distribution system as a transportation fuel.

(C) The quantity of CNG/LNG for which RINs were generated was sold for use as transportation fuel and for no other purposes.

(D) The biogas/CNG/LNG was injected into and withdrawn from the same commercial distribution system.

(E) The biogas/CNG/LNG that is ultimately withdrawn from the commercial distribution system for use as transportation fuel is withdrawn in a manner and at a time consistent with the transport of the biogas/CNG/LNG between the injection and withdrawal points.

(F) The volume and heat content of biogas/CNG/LNG injected into a pipeline and the volume of biogas/CNG/LNG withdrawn to make a transportation fuel are measured by continuous metering.

(G) The amount of fuel sold for use as transportation fuel corresponds to the amount of fuel derived from biogas that was placed into the commercial distribution system.

(H) No other party relied upon the volume of biogas/CNG/LNG for the creation of RINs.

(iii) For renewable electricity that is generated by co-firing a combination of renewable biomass and fossil fuel, the producer may generate RINs only for the portion attributable to the renewable biomass, using the procedure described in paragraph (f)(4) of this section.

(12) For purposes of Table 1 of this section, process heat produced from combustion of gas at a renewable fuel facility is considered derived from biomass if the gas is biogas.

(i) For biogas directly transported to the facility without being placed in a commercial distribution system, all of the following conditions must be met:

(A) The producer has entered into a written contract for the procurement of a specific volume of biogas with a specific heat content.

(B) The volume of biogas was sold to the renewable fuel production facility, and to no other facility.

(C) The volume and heat content of biogas injected into the pipeline and the volume of gas used as process heat are measured by continuous metering.

(ii) For biogas that has been gathered, processed and injected into a common carrier pipeline, all of the following conditions must be met:

(A) The producer has entered into a written contract for the procurement of a specific volume of biogas with a specific heat content.

(B) The volume of biogas was sold to the renewable fuel production facility, and to no other facility.

(C) The volume of biogas that is withdrawn from the pipeline is withdrawn in a manner and at a time consistent with the transport of fuel between the injection and withdrawal points.

(D) The volume and heat content of biogas injected into the pipeline and the volume of gas used as process heat are measured by continuous metering.

(E) The common carrier pipeline into which the biogas is placed ultimately serves the producer's renewable fuel facility.

(iii) The process heat produced from combustion of gas at a renewable fuel facility described in paragraph (f)(12)(i) of this section shall not be considered derived from biomass if any other party relied upon the contracted volume of biogas for the creation of RINs.

(13) In order for facilities to satisfy the requirements of the advanced biofuel grain sorghum pathway all of the following conditions (in addition to other applicable requirements) apply.

(i) The quantity of electricity used at the site that is purchased from the grid must be measured and recorded by continuous metering.

(ii) All electricity used on-site that is not purchased from the grid must be produced on-site from biogas from landfills, waste treatment plants, and/or waste digesters.

(iii) For biogas directly transported to the facility without being placed in a commercial distribution system, all of the following conditions must be met:

(A) The producer has entered into a written contract for the procurement of biogas that specifies the volume of biogas, its heat content, and that the biogas must be derived from a landfill, waste treatment plant and/or waste digester.

(B) The volume of biogas was sold to the renewable fuel production facility, and to no other facility.

(C) The volume and heat content of biogas injected into the pipeline and the volume of gas used at the renewable fuel production facility are measured by continuous metering.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) For biogas that has been gathered, processed and injected into a common carrier pipeline, all of the following conditions must be met:

(A) The producer has entered into a written contract for the procurement of biogas that specifies a specific volume of biogas, with a specific heat content, and that the biogas must be derived from a landfill, waste treatment plant and/or waste digester.

(B) The volume of biogas was sold to the renewable fuel production facility, and to no other facility.

(C) The volume of biogas that is withdrawn from the pipeline is withdrawn in a manner and at a time consistent with the transport of fuel between the injection and withdrawal points.

(D) The volume and heat content of biogas injected into the pipeline and the volume of gas used at the renewable fuel production facility are measured by continuous metering.

(E) The common carrier pipeline into which the biogas is placed ultimately serves the producer's renewable fuel facility.

(vi) No party relied upon the contracted volume of biogas for the creation of RINs.
