
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1426 How are RINs generated and assigned to batches of renewable fuel?
####### Delayed RIN generation.

(g)(1) Parties who produce or import renewable fuel may elect to generate delayed RINs to represent renewable fuel volumes that have already been transferred to another party if those renewable fuel volumes meet all of the following requirements.

(i) The renewable fuel volumes can be described by a new pathway that has been added to Table 1 to § 80.1426, or approved by petition pursuant to § 80.1416, after July 1, 2010.

(A) For new pathways that EPA approves in response to petitions submitted pursuant to § 80.1416, complete petitions must be received by EPA by January 31, 2011.

(B) [Reserved]

(ii) The renewable fuel volumes can be described by a pathway that:

(A) Is biodiesel that is made from canola oil through transesterification using natural gas or biomass for process energy; or

(B) EPA has determined was in use as of July 1, 2010, for the primary purpose of producing transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel for commercial sale.

(iii) The renewable fuel volumes were not designated or intended for export from the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii by the renewable fuel producer or importer, and the producer or importer of the renewable fuel volumes does not know or have reason to know that the volumes were exported from the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii.

(2) When a new pathway is added to Table 1 to § 80.1426 or approved by petition pursuant to § 80.1416, EPA will specify in its approval action the effective date on which the new pathway becomes valid for the generation of RINs and whether the fuel in question meets the requirements of paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section.

(i) The effective date for the pathway describing biodiesel that is made from canola oil through transesterification using natural gas or biomass for process energy is September 28, 2010.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Delayed RINs can only be generated to represent renewable fuel volumes produced in the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii or imported into the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii between July 1, 2010, and the earlier of either of the following dates:

(i) The effective date (identified pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of the new pathway through which the fuel in question was produced; or

(ii) December 31, 2011.

(4) Delayed RINs must be generated no later than 60 days after the effective date (identified pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of the pathway by which the fuel in question was produced.

(5) A party authorized pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section to generate delayed RINs, and electing to do so, who generated RINs pursuant to 80.1426(f)(6) for fuel produced through a pathway described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, and transferred those RINs with renewable fuel volumes between July 1, 2010 and the effective date (identified pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of that pathway, must retire a number of gallon-RINs prior to generating delayed RINs.

(i) The number of gallon-RINs retired by a party pursuant to this paragraph must not exceed the number of gallon-RINs originally generated by the party to represent fuel described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section that was produced in the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii or imported into the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii, and transferred to another party, between July 1, 2010 and the earlier of either of the following dates:

(A) The effective date (identified pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of the new pathway through which the fuel in question was produced; or

(B) December 31, 2011.

(ii) Retired RINs must have a D code of 6.

(iii) Retired RINs must have a K code of 2.

(iv) Retired RINs must have been generated in the same year as the gallon-RINs originally generated by the party to represent fuel described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(A) For gallon-RINs originally generated in 2010 to represent fuel described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the generation year of retired RINs shall be 2010.

(B) For gallon-RINs originally generated in 2011 to represent fuel described in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, the generation year of retired RINs shall be 2011.

(6) For parties that retire RINs pursuant to paragraph (g)(5) of this section, the number of delayed gallon-RINs generated shall be equal to the number of gallon-RINs retired in accordance with paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(7) A party authorized pursuant to paragraph (g)(1) of this section to generate delayed RINs, and electing to do so, who did not generate RINs pursuant to § 80.1426(f)(6) for renewable fuel produced in the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii or imported into the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii between July 1, 2010 and the effective date (identified pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of a new pathway for the fuel in question, may generate a number of delayed gallon-RINs for that renewable fuel in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section.

(i) The standardized volume of fuel (V) used by a party to determine the RIN volume (V) under paragraph (f) of this section shall be the standardized volume of the fuel described in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section that was produced in the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii or imported into the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii by the party, and transferred to another party, between July 1, 2010 and the earlier of either of the following dates:

(A) The effective date (identified pursuant to paragraph (g)(2) of this section) of the new pathway through which the fuel in question was produced; or

(B) December 31, 2011.

(ii) [Reserved]

(8) The renewable fuel for which delayed RINs are generated must be described by a pathway that satisfies the requirements of paragraph (g)(1) of this section.

(9) All delayed RINs generated by a renewable fuel producer or importer must be generated within EMTS on the same date.

(10) The generation year of delayed RINs as designated in EMTS shall be the year that the renewable fuel volumes they represent were either produced or imported into the 48 contiguous states plus Hawaii.

(i) For renewable fuel volumes produced or imported in 2010, the generation year of delayed RINs shall be 2010 and the production date specified in EMTS shall be 07/01/2010.

(ii) For renewable fuel volumes produced or imported in 2011, the generation year of delayed RINs shall be 2011 and the production date specified in EMTS shall be 01/01/2011.

(11) Delayed RINs shall be generated as assigned RINs in EMTS with a batch number that begins with "DRN", and then immediately separated by the RIN generator.

(12) The D code that shall be used in delayed RINs shall be the D code which corresponds to the new pathway.

(13) Except as provided in this paragraph (g), all other provisions in this Subpart M that pertain to the identification of fuels for which RINs may be generated, the generation and use of RINs, and recordkeeping and reporting, are also applicable to delayed RINs.
