
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1427 How are RINs used to demonstrate compliance?
####### Renewable fuel.

(iv)

(2) RINs that are valid for use in complying with each Renewable Volume Obligation are determined by their D codes.

(i) RINs with a D code of 3 or 7 are valid for compliance with the cellulosic biofuel RVO.

(ii) RINs with a D code of 4 or 7 are valid for compliance with the biomass-based diesel RVO.

(iii) RINs with a D code of 3, 4, 5, or 7 are valid for compliance with the advanced biofuel RVO.

(iv) RINs with a D code of 3, 4, 5, 6, or 7 are valid for compliance with the renewable fuel RVO.

(3)(i) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, a party may use the same RIN to demonstrate compliance with more than one RVO so long as it is valid for compliance with all RVOs to which it is applied.

(ii) A cellulosic diesel RIN with a D code of 7 cannot be used to demonstrate compliance with both a cellulosic biofuel RVO and a biomass-based diesel RVO.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) The value of (ΣRINNUM)may not exceed values determined by the following inequalities except as provided in paragraph (a)(7)(iii) of this section and § 80.1442(d)

(6) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(7) of this section:

(i) RINs may only be used to demonstrate compliance with the RVOs for the calendar year in which they were generated or the following calendar year.

(ii) RINs used to demonstrate compliance in one year cannot be used to demonstrate compliance in any other year.
