
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1430 Requirements for exporters of renewable fuels.
####### Renewable fuel.

(4)

(c) If the exporter of renewable fuel knows or has reason to know that a volume of exported renewable fuel is cellulosic diesel, the exporter of renewable fuel must treat the exported volume as either cellulosic biofuel or biomass-based diesel when determining his Renewable Volume Obligations pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(d) For the purposes of calculating the Renewable Volume Obligations:

(1) If the equivalence value for a volume of exported renewable fuel can be determined pursuant to § 80.1415 based on its composition, then the appropriate equivalence value shall be used in the calculation of the exporter of renewable fuel's Renewable Volume Obligations under paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) If the category of the exported renewable fuel is known to be biomass-based diesel but the composition is unknown, the value of EVshall be 1.5.

(3) If neither the category nor composition of a volume of exported renewable fuel can be determined, the value of EVshall be 1.0.

(e) For renewable fuels that are in the form of a blend at the time of export, the exporter of renewable fuel shall determine the volume of exported renewable fuel based on one of the following:

(1) Information from the supplier of the blend of the concentration of renewable fuel in the blend.

(2) Determination of the renewable portion of the blend using Method B or Method C of ASTM D6866 (incorporated by reference, see § 80.1468), or an alternative test method as approved by the EPA.

(3) Assuming the maximum concentration of the renewable fuel in the blend as allowed by law and/or regulation.

(f) Each exporter of renewable fuel must fulfill its ERVO for each discrete volume of exported renewable fuel within thirty days of export, and must demonstrate compliance with its ERVOs pursuant to § 80.1427(c).

(g) Each exporter of renewable fuel must fulfill any 2014 ERVOs existing as of September 16, 2014 for which RINs have not yet been retired by the compliance demonstration deadline for the 2013 compliance period, and must demonstrate compliance with such ERVOs pursuant to § 80.1427(c).

(h) Each person meeting the definition of exporter of renewable fuel for a particular export transaction is jointly and severally liable for completion of the requirements of this section and all associated RIN retirement demonstration, registration, reporting, and attest engagement obligations under this subpart. However, these requirements for exporters of renewable fuel must be met only once for any export transaction.
