
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1435 How are RIN holdings and RIN holding thresholds calculated?
####### Exemption from aggregation requirements.

(e)(1) A party may claim exemption from the requirement to aggregate D6 RIN holdings for any affiliate where one or more of the following apply:

(i) There is an absence of common trading-level control and information sharing with the affiliate.

(ii) The sharing of information regarding aggregation with the affiliate could lead either party to violate state or Federal law, or the law of a foreign jurisdiction.

(iii) The affiliate is exempt from the regulations regarding commodities and securities exchanges under 17 CFR 150.4(b)(7).

(2) A party must retain detailed, explanatory documentation supporting its exemption and must provide this documentation to the attest auditor under ยง 80.1464, and to EPA upon request. Such records include, but are not limited to, the following:

(i) Documents that reflect that the parties do not have knowledge of the trading decisions of the other.

(ii) Documents that demonstrate that there are developed and independent trading systems in place.

(iii) Documents that demonstrate that the parties have and enforce written procedures to preclude each from having knowledge of, gaining access to, or receiving data about, trades of the other.

(iv) Documents reflective of the risk management and other systems in place.

(v) Documents that support an exemption under 17 CFR 150.4(b)(7).

(vi) Any other documents that support the applicability of the exemption.
