
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1442 What are the provisions for small refiners under the RFS program?
####### Small refiner temporary exemption.

(c)(1) Transportation fuel produced by an small refiner pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, or an approved foreign small refiner (as defined at ยง 80.1465(a)), is exempt from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010 from the renewable fuel standards of ยง 80.1405 and the requirements that apply to obligated parties under this subpart if the refiner or foreign refiner meets all the criteria of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(2) The small refiner exemption shall apply to a small refiner pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section or an approved foreign small refiner unless that refiner chooses to waive this exemption (as described in paragraph (d) of this section).

(d)(1) A refiner may, at any time, waive the small refiner exemption under paragraph (c) of this section upon notification to EPA.

(2) A refiner's notice to EPA that it intends to waive the small refiner exemption must be received by November 1 of a given year in order for the waiver to be effective for the following calendar year. The waiver will be effective beginning on January 1 of the following calendar year, at which point the refiner will be subject to the renewable fuel standards of ยง 80.1405 and the requirements that apply to obligated parties under this subpart.

(3) The waiver must be sent to EPA at one of the addresses listed in paragraph (i) of this section.

(e) Refiners who qualify as small refiners under this section and subsequently fail to meet all of the qualifying criteria as set out in paragraph (a) of this section are disqualified as small refiners of January 1 of the next calendar year, except as provided under paragraphs (d) and (e)(2) of this section.

(1) In the event such disqualification occurs, the refiner shall notify EPA in writing no later than 20 days following the disqualifying event.

(2) Disqualification under this paragraph (e) shall not apply in the case of a merger between two approved small refiners.

(f) If EPA finds that a refiner provided false or inaccurate information in its small refiner status verification letter under this subpart M, the refiner will be disqualified as a small refiner as of the effective date of this subpart.

(g) Any refiner that acquires a refinery from another refiner with approved small refiner status under paragraph (a) of this section shall notify EPA in writing no later than 20 days following the acquisition.
