
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1442 What are the provisions for small refiners under the RFS program?

(a)(1) To qualify as a small refiner under this section, a refiner must meet all of the following criteria:

(i) The refiner produced transportation fuel at its refineries by processing crude oil through refinery processing units from January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006.

(ii) The refiner employed an average of no more than 1,500 people, based on the average number of employees for all pay periods for calendar year 2006 for all subsidiary companies, all parent companies, all subsidiaries of the parent companies, and all joint venture partners.

(iii) The refiner had a corporate-average crude oil capacity less than or equal to 155,000 barrels per calendar day (bpcd) for 2006.

(2) For the purposes of this section, the term "refiner" shall include foreign refiners.

(b)(1) The small refiner exemption in paragraph (c) of this section is effective immediately, except as provided in paragraph (b)(5) of this section, provided that all requirements of this section are satisfied.

(2) Refiners who qualify for the small refiner exemption under paragraph (a) of this section must submit a verification letter (and any other relevant information) to EPA by July 1, 2010. The small refiner verification letter must include all of the following information for the refiner and for all subsidiary companies, all parent companies, all subsidiaries of the parent companies, and all joint venture partners:

(i) A listing of the name and address of each company location where any employee worked for the period January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006.

(ii) The average number of employees at each location based on the number of employees for each pay period for the period January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006.

(iii) The type of business activities carried out at each location.

(iv) For joint ventures, the total number of employees includes the combined employee count of all corporate entities in the venture.

(v) For government-owned refiners, the total employee count includes all government employees.

(vi) The total corporate crude oil capacity of each refinery as reported to the Energy Information Administration (EIA) of the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), for the period January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006. The information submitted to EIA is presumed to be correct. In cases where a company disagrees with this information, the company may petition EPA with appropriate data to correct the record when the company submits its application.

(vii) The verification letter must be signed by the president, chief operating or chief executive officer of the company, or his/her designee, stating that the information is true to the best of his/her knowledge, and that the company owned the refinery as of December 31, 2006.

(viii) Name, address, phone number, facsimile number, and e-mail address of a corporate contact person.

(3) In the case of a refiner who acquires or reactivates a refinery that was shutdown or non-operational between January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2006, the information required in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be provided for the time period since the refiner acquired or reactivated the refinery.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) For foreign refiners the small refiner exemption shall be effective upon approval, by EPA, of a small refiner application. The application must contain all of the elements required for small refiner verification letters (as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section), must satisfy the provisions of ยง 80.1465(f) through (h) and (o), must demonstrate compliance with the crude oil capacity criterion of paragraph (a)(1)(iii) of this section, and must be submitted by July 1, 2010 to one of the addresses listed in paragraph (i) of this section.
