
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1443 What are the opt-in provisions for noncontiguous states and territories?

(a) Alaska or a United States territory may petition the Administrator to opt-in to the program requirements of this subpart.

(b) The Administrator will approve the petition if it meets the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(c) The petition must be signed by the Governor of the state or his authorized representative (or the equivalent official of the territory).

(d)(1) A petition submitted under this section must be received by EPA by November 1 for the state or territory to be included in the RFS program in the next calendar year.

(2) A petition submitted under this section should be sent to the attention of "RFS Program" to the address in ยง 80.10(a).

(e) Upon approval of the petition by the Administrator:

(1) EPA shall calculate the standards for the following year, including the total gasoline and diesel fuel volume for the state or territory in question.

(2) Beginning on January 1 of the next calendar year, all gasoline and diesel fuel refiners and importers in the state or territory for which a petition has been approved shall be obligated parties as defined in ยง 80.1406.

(3) Beginning on January 1 of the next calendar year, all renewable fuel producers in the state or territory for which a petition has been approved shall, pursuant to ยง 80.1426(a)(2), be required to generate RINs and comply with other requirements of this subpart M that are applicable to producers of renewable fuel.
