
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1440 What are the provisions for blenders who handle and blend less than 250,000 gallons of renewable fuel per year or who handle renewable fuel blended for fuels under a national security exemption?

(a)(1) Renewable fuel blenders who handle and blend less than 250,000 gallons of renewable fuel per year, and who do not have one or more reported or unreported Renewable Volume Obligations, are permitted to delegate their RIN-related responsibilities to the party directly upstream of them who supplied the renewable fuel for blending.

(2) Renewable fuel blenders who handle and blend renewable fuel for parties that have a national security exemption under paragraph (f) of this section, or a national security exemption under 40 CFR 1090.605, and who do not have one or more reported or unreported Renewable Volume Obligations, are permitted to delegate their RIN-related responsibilities to the party directly upstream of them who supplied the renewable fuel for blending.

(b) The RIN-related responsibilities that may be delegated directly upstream include all of the following:

(1) The RIN separation requirements of § 80.1429.

(2) The reporting requirements of § 80.1451.

(3) The recordkeeping requirements of § 80.1454.

(4) The attest engagement requirements of § 80.1464.

(c) For upstream delegation of RIN-related responsibilities, both parties must agree on the delegation, and a quarterly written statement signed by both parties must be included with the reporting party's reports under § 80.1451.

(1) Both parties must keep copies of the signed quarterly written statement agreeing to the upward delegation for 5 years.

(2) Parties delegating their RIN responsibilities upward shall keep copies of their registration forms as submitted to EPA.

(3) A renewable fuel blender who delegates its RIN-related responsibilities under this section will remain liable for any violation of this subpart M associated with its renewable fuel blending activities.

(d) Renewable fuel blenders who handle and blend less than 250,000 gallons of renewable fuel per year and delegate their RIN-related responsibilities under paragraph (b) of this section must register pursuant to § 80.1450(e), and may not own RINs.

(e) Renewable fuel blenders who handle and blend less than 250,000 gallons of renewable fuel per year and who do not opt to delegate their RIN-related responsibilities, or own RINs, will be subject to all requirements stated in paragraph (b) of this section, and all other applicable requirements of this subpart M.

(f) The requirements described in paragraph (b) of this section may be delegated directly upstream for renewable fuel (neat or blended) that is produced, imported, sold, offered for sale, supplied, offered for supply, stored, dispensed, or transported for use in any of the following:

(1) Tactical military vehicles, engines, or equipment having an EPA national security exemption from emission standards under 40 CFR 85.1708, 89.908, 92.908, 94.908, 1042.635, or 1068.225.

(2) Tactical military vehicles, engines, or equipment that are not subject to a national security exemption from vehicle or engine emissions standards as described in paragraph (f)(1) of this section but, for national security purposes (for purposes of readiness for deployment overseas), need to be fueled on the same transportation fuel, heating oil, or jet fuel as the vehicles, engines, or equipment for which EPA has granted such a national security exemption.
