
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1449 What are the Production Outlook Report requirements?

(a) By June 1 of each year (September 1 for the report due in 2010), a registered renewable fuel producer or importer must submit and an unregistered renewable fuel producer may submit all of the following information for each of its facilities, as applicable, to EPA:

(1) The type, or types, of renewable fuel expected to be produced or imported at each facility owned by the renewable fuel producer or importer.

(2) The volume of each type of renewable fuel expected to be produced or imported at each facility.

(3) The number of RINs expected to be generated by the renewable fuel producer or importer for each type of renewable fuel.

(4) Information about all the following:

(i) Existing and planned production capacity.

(ii) Long-range plans for expansion of production capacity at existing facilities or construction of new facilities.

(iii) Feedstocks, biointermediates, and production processes to be used at each production facility.

(iv) Changes to the facility that would raise or lower emissions of any greenhouse gases from the facility.

(5) For expanded production capacity that is planned or underway at each existing facility, or new production facilities that are planned or underway, information on all the following, as available:

(i) Strategic planning.

(ii) Planning and front-end engineering.

(iii) Detailed engineering and permitting.

(iv) Procurement and construction.

(v) Commissioning and startup.

(6) Whether capital commitments have been made or are projected to be made.

(b) The information listed in paragraph (a) of this section shall include the reporting party's best estimates for the five following calendar years.

(c) Production outlook reports must provide an update of the progress in each of the areas listed in paragraph (a) of this section in comparison to information provided in previous year production outlook reports.

(d) Production outlook reports shall be sent to the attention of "RFS Program (Production Output Reports)" to the address in ยง 80.10(a).

(e) All production outlook reports required under this section shall be submitted on forms and following procedures prescribed by the Administrator.
