
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Suspended Particulate Matter in the Atmosphere (High-Volume Method)
###### Maximum pressure drop at 1.7 std m

7.8.4/min; 50 cm HO (5 kPa).

7.8.5 The flow rate transfer standard must connect without leaks to the inlet of the sampler and measure the flow rate of the total air sample.

7.8.6 The flow rate transfer standard must include a means to vary the sampler flow rate over the range of 1.0 to 1.8 m/min (35-64 ft/min) by introducing various levels of flow resistance between the sampler and the transfer standard inlet.

7.8.7 The conventional type of flow transfer standard consists of: An orifice unit with adapter that connects to the inlet of the sampler, a manometer or other device to measure orifice pressure drop, a means to vary the flow through the sampler unit, a thermometer to measure the ambient temperature, and a barometer to measure ambient pressure. Two such devices are shown in Figures 2a and 2b. Figure 2a shows multiple fixed resistance plates, which necessitate disassembly of the unit each time the flow resistance is changed. A preferable design, illustrated in Figure 2b, has a variable flow restriction that can be adjusted externally without disassembly of the unit. Use of a conventional, orifice-type transfer standard is assumed in the calibration procedure (Section 9). However, the use of other types of transfer standards meeting the above specifications, such as the one shown in Figure 2c, may be approved; see the note following Section 9.1.
