
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1450 What are the registration requirements under the RFS program?
####### 5

() For renewable fuel producers already registered as of August 18, 2014, to produce a single type of fuel that qualifies for D code 3 or D code 7 RINs (or would do so after denaturing) using two or more feedstocks converted simultaneously using a combination of processes or a process other than a thermochemical process, the information specified in this paragraph (b)(1)(xiii)(B) shall be provided at the next required registration update under paragraph (d) of this section.

(xiv) For a producer of cellulosic biofuel made from energy cane, or a foreign renewable fuel producer making ethanol from energy cane and seeking to have it sold after denaturing as cellulosic biofuel, provide all of the following:

(A) Data showing that the average adjusted cellulosic content of each cane cultivar they intend to use is at least 75%, based on the average of at least three representative samples of each cultivar. Cultivars must be grown under normal growing conditions and consistent with acceptable farming practices. Samples must be of feedstock from a feedstock supplier that the fuel producer intends to use to supply feedstock for their production process and must represent the feedstock supplier's range of growing conditions and locations. Cellulosic content data must come from an analytical method certified by a voluntary consensus standards body or using a method that would produce reasonably accurate results as demonstrated through peer reviewed references provided to the third party engineer performing the engineering review at registration.

(B) Producers that want to change or add new cultivar(s) after initial registration must update their registration and provide EPA with data in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section demonstrating that the average adjusted cellulosic content for any new cultivar is at least 75%. Cultivars that do not meet this requirement are considered sugarcane for purposes of Table 1 to § 80.1426.

(xv) For a producer of cellulosic biofuel made from crop residue, a foreign ethanol producer making ethanol from crop residue and seeking to have it sold after denaturing as cellulosic biofuel, or a biointermediate producer producing a biointermediate for use in the production of a cellulosic biofuel made from crop residue, provide all the following information:

(A) A list of all feedstocks the producer intends to utilize as crop residue.

(B) A written justification which explains why each feedstock a producer lists according to paragraph (b)(1)(xv)(A) of this section meets the definition of "crop residue" per § 80.1401.

(C) For producers already registered as of August 18, 2014 to produce a renewable fuel using crop residue, the information specified in this paragraph (b)(1)(xv) shall be provided at the next required registration update under paragraph (d) of this section.

(xvi) For FFA feedstock, the biointermediate producer must provide a description of how the biointermediate producer will determine FFA concentration.

(2) An independent third-party engineering review and written report and verification of the information provided pursuant to paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The report and verification shall be based upon a site visit and review of relevant documents and shall separately identify each item required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section, describe how the independent third-party evaluated the accuracy of the information provided, state whether the independent third-party agrees with the information provided, and identify any exceptions between the independent third-party's findings and the information provided.

(i) The verifications required under this section must be conducted by a professional engineer, as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i)(A) and (b)(2)(i)(B) of this section, who is an independent third-party. The verifying engineer must be:

(A) For a domestic renewable fuel production facility, a foreign ethanol production facility, or a biointermediate production facility, a professional engineer who is licensed by an appropriate state agency in the United States, with professional work experience in the chemical engineering field or related to renewable fuel production.

(B) For a foreign renewable fuel or foreign biointermediate production facility, an engineer who is a foreign equivalent to a professional engineer licensed in the United States with professional work experience in the chemical engineering field or related to renewable fuel production.

(ii) To be considered an independent third-party under this paragraph (b)(2):

(A) The third-party shall not be operated by the renewable fuel producer, foreign ethanol producer, or biointermediate producer, or any subsidiary or employee of the renewable fuel producer foreign ethanol producer, or biointermediate producer.

(B) The third-party shall be free from any interest in the renewable fuel producer, foreign ethanol producer, or biointermediate producer's business.

(C) The renewable fuel producer, foreign ethanol producer, or biointermediate producer shall be free from any interest in the third-party's business.

(D) Use of a third-party that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment pursuant to the Government-wide Debarment and Suspension regulations, 40 CFR part 32, or the Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR, part 9, subpart 9.4, shall be deemed noncompliance with the requirements of this section.

(iii) The independent third-party shall retain all records pertaining to the verification required under this section for a period of five years from the date of creation and shall deliver such records to the Administrator upon request.

(iv) The renewable fuel producer, foreign ethanol producer, or biointermediate producer must retain records of the review and verification, as required in § 80.1454(b)(6) or (i)(4), as applicable.

(v) The third-party must provide to EPA documentation of his or her qualifications as part of the engineering review, including proof of appropriate professional license or foreign equivalent.

(vi) Owners and operators of facilities described in § 80.1403(c) and (d) must submit the engineering review no later than December 31, 2010.
