
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1450 What are the registration requirements under the RFS program?
####### Independent third-party auditors.

(g)Any independent third-party auditor described in § 80.1471 must register with the EPA as an independent third-party auditor and receive an EPA issued company identification number prior to conducting quality assurance audits pursuant to § 80.1472. Registration information must be submitted at least 30 days prior to conducting audits of renewable fuel production or biointermediate production facilities. The independent third-party auditor must provide to the EPA all the following:

(1) The information specified under 40 CFR 1090.805, if such information has not already been provided under the provisions of this part.

(2) Documentation of professional qualifications as follows:

(i) For a professional engineer as described in § 80.1450(b)(2)(i)(A) and (b)(2)(i)(B).

(ii) For a domestic independent third-party auditor or a foreign independent third-party auditor, a certified public accountant who is licensed by an appropriate state agency in the United States.

(iii) For a foreign independent third-party auditor, an accountant who is a foreign equivalent to a certified public accountant licensed in the United States.

(3) Documentation of professional liability insurance as described in § 80.1471(c).

(4) Any quality assurance plans as described in § 80.1469.
