
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### Obligated parties and exporters.

(a)Any obligated party described in § 80.1406 or exporter of renewable fuel described in § 80.1430 must submit to EPA reports according to the schedule, and containing all the information, that is set forth in this paragraph (a).

(1) Annual compliance reports must include all the following information:

(i) The obligated party's or exporter of renewable fuel's name.

(ii) The EPA company registration number.

(iii) Whether the domestic refiner, as defined in § 80.1406, is complying on a corporate (aggregate) or facility-by-facility basis.

(iv) The EPA facility registration number, if complying on a facility-by-facility basis.

(v)(A) For the 2010 through 2019 compliance periods, the production volume and import volume of all of the products listed in § 80.1407(c) and (e) for the compliance period.

(B) For the 2020 compliance period, separately, the production volume and import volume of all of the gasoline products listed in § 80.1407(c), the production volume and import volume of all of the MVNRLM diesel fuel products listed in § 80.1407(e), and the combined volume of all gasoline products and MVNRLM diesel fuel listed in § 80.1407(c) and (e) for the compliance period.

(C) Beginning with the 2021 compliance period, separately, the production volume and import volume for the compliance period of all of the following:
