
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1450 What are the registration requirements under the RFS program?
####### Deactivation of registration.

(h)(1) EPA may deactivate the registration of any party required to register under this section ยง 80.1450, using the process in paragraph (h)(2) of this section, if any of the following criteria are met:

(i) Unless the party is a biointermediate producer, the party has reported no activity in EMTS for twenty-four consecutive months.

(ii) The party has failed to comply with the registration requirements of this section.

(iii) The party has failed to submit any required notification or report within 30 days of the required submission date under ยง 80.1451.

(iv) The attest engagement required under ยง 80.1464 has not been received within 30 days of the required submission date.

(v) The party fails to pay a penalty or to perform any requirements under the terms of a court order, administrative order, consent decree, or administrative settlement between the party and EPA.

(vi) The party submits false or incomplete information.

(vii) The party denies EPA access or prevents EPA from completing authorized activities under sections 114 or 208 of the Clean Air Act despite presenting a warrant or court order. This includes a failure to provide reasonable assistance.

(viii) The party fails to keep or provide the records required by this subpart.

(ix) The party otherwise circumvents the intent of the Clean Air Act or of this subpart.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (h)(3) of this section, EPA will use the following process whenever it decides to deactivate the registration of a party:

(i) EPA will provide written notification to the responsible corporate officer identifying the reasons or deficiencies for which EPA intends to deactivate the party's registration. The party will have 30 calendar days from the date of the notification to correct the deficiencies identified or explain why there is no need for corrective action.

(ii) If the basis for EPA's notice of intent to deactivate registration is the absence of EMTS activity under paragraph (h)(1)(i) of this section, a stated intent to engage in activity reported through EMTS will be sufficient to avoid deactivation of registration.

(iii) If the party does not correct identified deficiencies under paragraphs (h)(1)(ii) through (ix) of this section, or does not provide an adequate explanation regarding why such correction is not necessary within the time allotted for response, EPA may deactivate the party's registration without further notice to the party.

(3) In instances of willfulness or those in which public health, interest, or safety requires otherwise, EPA may deactivate the registration of the party without any notice to the party. EPA will provide written notification to the responsible corporate officer identifying the reasons EPA deactivated the registration of the party.

(4) Impact of registration deactivation:

(i) A party whose registration is deactivated shall still be liable for violation of any requirements of this subpart.

(ii) A party whose registration is deactivated will not be listed on any public list of actively registered parties that is maintained by EPA.

(iii) A party whose registration is deactivated will not have access to any of the electronic reporting systems associated with the renewable fuel standard program, including the EPA Moderated Transaction System (EMTS).

(iv) A party whose registration is deactivated must submit any corrections of deficiencies to EPA on forms, and following policies, established by EPA.

(v) If a party whose registration has been deactivated wishes to re-register, they may seek to do so by submitting a new registration pursuant to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c), (e), and (g) of this section, as applicable.
