
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### Renewable fuel producers (domestic and foreign) and importers.

(b)Any domestic producer or importer of renewable fuel who generates RINs, or any RIN-generating foreign producer must submit to EPA reports according to the schedule, and containing all of the following information:

(1)(i) For RINs generated beginning on July 1, 2010, RIN generation reports for each facility owned by the renewable fuel producer or importer shall be submitted according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(ii) The RIN generation reports shall include all the following information for each batch of renewable fuel produced or imported, where "batch" means a discrete quantity of renewable fuel produced or imported and assigned a unique batch-RIN per § 80.1426(d):

(A) The RIN generator's name.

(B) The RIN generator's EPA company registration number.

(C) The renewable fuel producer EPA facility registration number.

(D) The importer EPA facility registration number and foreign renewable fuel producer company registration number, if applicable.

(E) The applicable reporting period.

(F) The quantity of RINs generated for each batch according to § 80.1426.

(G) The production date of each batch.

(H) The fuel type of each batch.

(I) The volume of ethanol denaturant and applicable equivalence value of each batch.

(J) The volume of each batch produced.

(K) The types and quantities of feedstocks and biointermediates used.

(L) The process(es), feedstock(s), and biointermediate(s) used and proportion of renewable volume attributable to each process, feedstock, and biointermediate.

(M) The type of co-products produced with each batch.

(N) The quantity of co-products produced in each quarter.

(O) A list of the RINs generated and an affirmation that the feedstock(s) used for each batch meets the definition of renewable biomass as defined in § 80.1401.

(P) Producers of renewable electricity and producers or importers of biogas used for transportation as described in § 80.1426(f)(10) and (11), shall report all of the following:
