
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### 5

() Distillate fuel that is certified NTDF.

(vi) The RVOs, as defined in § 80.1427(a) for obligated parties and § 80.1430(b) for exporters of renewable fuel, for the reporting year.

(vii) Any deficit RVOs carried over from the previous year.

(viii) The total current-year RINs by category of renewable fuel, as those fuels are defined in § 80.1401 (i.e., cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel, advanced biofuel, renewable fuel, and cellulosic diesel), retired for compliance.

(ix) The total prior-year RINs by renewable fuel category, as those fuels are defined in § 80.1401, retired for compliance.

(x) The total cellulosic biofuel waiver credits used to meet the party's cellulosic biofuel RVO.

(xi) A list of all RINs generated prior to July 1, 2010 that were retired for compliance in the reporting period.

(xii) Any deficit RVO(s) carried into the subsequent year.

(xiii) Any additional information that the Administrator may require.

(xiv)-(xv) [Reserved]

(xvi) The total current-year RINs by category of renewable fuel, as those fuels are defined in § 80.1401 (i.e., cellulosic biofuel, biomass-based diesel, advanced biofuel, renewable fuel, and cellulosic diesel), retired for compliance that are invalid as defined in § 80.1431(a).

(xvii) The total prior-year RINs by renewable fuel category, as those fuels are defined in § 80.1401, retired for compliance that are invalid as defined in § 80.1431(a).

(xviii) A list of all RINs that were retired for compliance in the reporting period and are invalid as defined in § 80.1431(a).

(xix) For parties that redesignate certified NTDF as MVNRLM diesel fuel under § 80.1408 at any time during the compliance period, the volumes MVNRLM, MVNRLM, MVNRLM, and MVNRLMas calculated in § 80.1408(a)(2).

(2) The RIN transaction reports required under paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) The quarterly RIN activity reports required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(4) Reports required under this paragraph (a) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the owner or a responsible corporate officer of the obligated party or exporter of renewable fuel.
