
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### All RIN-owning parties.

(c)Any party, including any party specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, that owns RINs during a reporting period, must submit reports to EPA according to the schedule, and containing all the information, that is set forth in this paragraph (c).

(1)(i) For RIN transactions beginning on July 1, 2010, RIN transaction reports listing each RIN transaction shall be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(ii) As per ยง 80.1452, RIN transaction information listing each RIN transaction shall be submitted to the EMTS.

(iii) Each report required by paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section shall include all of the following information:

(A) The submitting party's name.

(B) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.

(C) The applicable reporting period.

(D) Transaction type (i.e., RIN buy, RIN sell, RIN separation, RIN retire, reinstated 2009 or 2010 RINs).

(E) Transaction date.

(F) For a RIN purchase or sale, the trading partner's name.

(G) For a RIN purchase or sale, the trading partner's EPA company registration number. For all other transactions, the submitting party's EPA company registration number.

(H) RIN subject to the transaction.

(I) For a RIN purchase or sale, the per gallon RIN price and/or the per gallon price of renewable fuel price with RINs included.

(J) The reason code for retiring RINs, separating RINs, buying RINs, or selling RINs.

(K) Any additional information that the Administrator may require.

(2) RIN activity reports must be submitted to EPA according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Each report must summarize RIN activities for the reporting period, separately for RINs separated from a renewable fuel volume and RINs assigned to a renewable fuel volume.

(i) For compliance periods ending on or before December 31, 2019, each report must include all of the following information:

(A) The submitting party's name.

(B) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.

(C) The number of current-year RINs owned at the start of the quarter.

(D) The number of prior-year RINs owned at the start of the quarter.

(E) The total current-year RINs purchased.

(F) The total prior-year RINs purchased.

(G) The total current-year RINs sold.

(H) The total prior-year RINs sold.

(I) The total current-year RINs retired.

(J) The total current-year RINs retired that are invalid as defined in ยง 80.1431(a).

(K) The total prior-year RINs retired.

(L) The total prior-year RINs retired that are invalid as defined in ยง 80.1431(a).

(M) The number of current-year RINs owned at the end of the quarter.

(N) The number of prior-year RINs owned at the end of the quarter.

(O) The number of RINs generated.

(P) The volume of renewable fuel (in gallons) owned at the end of the quarter.

(Q) The total 2009 and 2010 retired RINs reinstated.

(R) Any additional information that the Administrator may require.

(ii) For compliance periods starting on or after January 1, 2020, each report must include all of the following information:

(A) The submitting party's name.

(B) The submitting party's EPA-issued company identification number.
