
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### 2

() Indicate if the submitting party or the submitting party's corporate affiliate group exceeded the secondary threshold for any day in the quarter under § 80.1435(c)(2). If the submitting party is an obligated party and has exceeded the secondary threshold or is in a corporate affiliate group containing an obligated party that has exceeded the secondary threshold, then EPA may publish the name and EPA-issued company identification number of the submitting party.

(F) A list of all corporate and contractual affiliates during the reporting period. For each affiliate, include the identification information (including the EPA company ID number, if registered) and the affiliate type.

(G) The RVO used to calculate D6 RIN threshold, if alternative gasoline and diesel production volumes were used under § 80.1435(d).

(H) A list of contractual affiliates that had a contract with the party that did not result in transfer of RINs to the party during the reporting period.

(I) Any additional information that the Administrator may require.

(3) All reports required under this paragraph (c) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the RIN owner or a responsible corporate officer of the RIN owner.

(d) Except for those producers using feedstocks subject to the aggregate compliance approach described in § 80.1454(g), producers and RIN-generating importers of renewable fuel made from feedstocks that are planted crops and crop residue from existing foreign agricultural land, planted trees or tree residue from actively managed tree plantations, slash and pre-commercial thinnings from forestlands or biomass obtained from areas at risk of wildfire must submit quarterly reports according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section that include all of the following:

(1) A summary of the types and quantities of feedstocks used in that quarter.

(2) Electronic data identifying the land by coordinates of the points defining the boundaries from which each type of feedstock listed per paragraph (d)(1) of this section was harvested.

(3) If electronic data identifying a plot of land have been submitted previously, producers and RIN-generating importers may submit a cross-reference to that electronic data.

(e) If EPA finds that the 2007 baseline amount of agricultural land has been exceeded in any year beginning in 2010, beginning on the first day of July of the following calendar year any producers or importers of renewable fuel as defined in § 80.1401 who use planted crops and/or crop residue from existing U.S. agricultural lands as feedstock must submit quarterly reports according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section that include all of the following:

(1) A summary of the types and quantities of feedstocks used in that quarter.

(2) Electronic data identifying the land by coordinates of the points defining the boundaries from which each type of feedstock listed per paragraph (d)(1) of this section was harvested.

(3) If electronic data identifying a plot of land have been submitted previously, producers and RIN-generating importers may submit a cross-reference to that electronic data.
