
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### Report certification.

(3)Reports required must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the owner or a responsible corporate officer of the submitter.

(g) All independent third-party auditors. Any party that is an independent third-party auditor that verifies RINs must submit to the EPA reports according to the schedule, and containing all the information, that is set forth in this paragraph (g).

(1)(i) RIN and biointermediate verification reports for each renewable fuel or biointermediate production facility audited by the independent third-party auditor shall be submitted according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(ii) The RIN and biointermediate verification reports shall include all the following information for each batch of renewable fuel produced or imported verified per § 80.1469(c), where "batch" means a discrete quantity of renewable fuel produced or imported and assigned a unique batch-RIN per § 80.1426(d):

(A) The RIN generator or biointermediate producer's name.

(B) The RIN generator or biointermediate producer's EPA company registration number.

(C) The renewable fuel or biointermediate producer's EPA facility registration number.

(D) The importer EPA facility registration number and foreign renewable fuel producer company registration number, if applicable.

(E) The applicable reporting period.

(F) The quantity of RINs generated for each verified batch according to § 80.1426.

(G) The production date of each verified batch.

(H) The D-code of each verified batch.

(I) The volume of ethanol denaturant and applicable equivalence value of each verified batch.

(J) The volume of each verified batch produced.

(K) The volume and type of each feedstock and biointermediate used to produce the verified batch.

(L) Whether the feedstocks and biointermediates used to produce each verified batch met the definition of renewable biomass.

(M) Whether appropriate RIN generation calculations were followed per § 80.1426(f)(3), (4), or (5) for each verified batch, as applicable.

(N) The quantity and type of co-products produced.

(O) Invoice document identification numbers associated with each verified batch, if applicable.

(P) Laboratory sample identification numbers for each verified batch associated with the generation of any certificates of analysis used to verify fuel type and quality, if applicable.

(Q) Any additional information the Administrator may require.

(2) Aggregate RIN verification reports shall be submitted to the EPA according to the schedule specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Each report shall summarize RIN verification activities for the reporting period. The quarterly aggregate RIN verification reports shall include all of the following information:

(i) The submitting party's name.

(ii) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.

(iii) The number of current-year RINs verified at the start of the quarter.

(iv) The number of prior-year RINs verified at the start of the quarter.

(v) The total current-year RINs verified.

(vi) The number of current-year RINs verified at the end of the quarter.

(vii) A list of all renewable fuel and biointermediate facilities including the EPA's company and facility registration numbers audited under an approved quality assurance plan under § 80.1469 along with the date the independent third-party auditor conducted the on-site visit and audit.

(viii) Mass and energy balances calculated for each renewable fuel and biointermediate production facility audited under an approved quality assurance plan under § 80.1469.

(ix) A list of all RINs that were identified as Potentially Invalid RINs (PIRs) pursuant to § 80.1474, along with a narrative description of why the RINs were not verified or were identified as PIRs.

(x) A list of all biointermediates that were identified as potentially improperly produced biointermediates under § 80.1477(d).

(xi) Any additional information that the Administrator may require.

(3) All reports required under this paragraph (g) must be signed and certified as meeting all the applicable requirements of this subpart by the independent third-party auditor or a responsible corporate officer of the independent third-party auditor.
