
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1452 What are the requirements related to the EPA Moderated Transaction System (EMTS)?

(a) Each party required to submit information under this section must establish an account with the EPA Moderated Transaction System (EMTS) at least 60 days prior to engaging in any RIN transactions, or July 1, 2010, whichever is later.

(b) Starting July 1, 2010, each time a domestic or foreign producer or importer of renewable fuel assigns RINs to a batch of renewable fuel pursuant to § 80.1426(e), all the following information must be submitted to EPA via the submitting party's EMTS account within five (5) business days of the date of RIN assignment.

(1) The name of the renewable fuel producer or importer.

(2) The EPA company registration number of the renewable fuel producer or foreign ethanol producer, as applicable.

(3) The importer's EPA company registration number if applicable.

(4) The EPA facility registration number of the facility at which the renewable fuel producer or foreign ethanol producer produced the batch, as applicable.

(5) The EPA facility registration number of the importer that imported the batch, if applicable.

(6) The D code of RINs generated for the batch.

(7) The production process(es) used for the batch.

(8) The production date of the batch.

(9) The fuel type of the batch.

(10) The volume of the batch.

(11) The volume of ethanol denaturant and applicable equivalence value of each batch.

(12) Quantity of RINs generated for the batch.

(13) The type and quantity of feedstock(s) used for the batch.

(14) An affirmation that the feedstock(s) used for each batch meets the definition of renewable biomass as defined in § 80.1401.

(15) The type and quantity of co-products produced with the batch of renewable fuel.

(16) The type and quantity of each biointermediate used for the batch, if applicable.

(17) The EPA facility registration number of each biointermediate production facility at which a biointermediate used for the batch was produced, if applicable.

(18) Any additional information the Administrator may require.

(c) Starting July 1, 2010, each time any party sells, separates, or retires RINs generated on or after July 1, 2010, all the following information must be submitted to EPA via the submitting party's EMTS account within five (5) business days of the reportable event. Starting July 1, 2010, each time any party purchases RINs generated on or after July 1, 2010, all the following information must be submitted to EPA via the submitting party's EMTS account within ten (10) business days of the reportable event. The reportable event for a RIN purchase or sale occurs on the date of transfer per § 80.1453(a)(4). The reportable event for a RIN separation or retirement occurs on the date of separation or retirement as described in § 80.1429 or § 80.1434.

(1) The submitting party's name.

(2) The submitting party's EPA company registration number.

(3) The generation year of the RINs.

(4) The RIN status (Assigned or Separated).

(5) The D code of the RINs.

(6) Transaction type (i.e., RIN buy, RIN sell, RIN separation, RIN retire).

(7) The date of transfer per § 80.1453(a)(4), if applicable.

(8) For a RIN purchase or sale, the trading partner's name.

(9) For a RIN purchase or sale, the trading partner's EPA company registration number.

(10) For an assigned RIN purchase or sale, the renewable fuel volume associated with the sale.

(11) Quantity of RINs involved in a transaction.

(12)(i) For transactions through December 31, 2019, the per gallon RIN price or the per-gallon price of renewable fuel with RINs included.

(ii) For transactions on or after January 1, 2020:

(A) For RIN buy or sell transaction types including assigned RINs, the per-gallon RIN price or the per-gallon price of renewable fuel with RINs included.

(B) For RIN buy or sell transaction types including separated RINs, the per-gallon RIN price.

(13) The reason for retiring RINs, separating RINs, buying RINs, or selling RINs.

(14) Any additional information that the Administrator may require.
