
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1451 What are the reporting requirements under the RFS program?
####### Biointermediate producers.

(j)For each biointermediate production facility, any biointermediate producer must submit quarterly reports for biointermediate batch production to EPA containing all of the information in this paragraph (j).

(1) Include all the following information for each batch of biointermediate produced:

(i) The biointermediate producer's name.

(ii) The biointermediate producer's EPA company registration number.

(iii) The biointermediate producer's EPA facility registration number.

(iv) The applicable compliance period.

(v) The production date.

(vi) The batch number.

(vii) For batches of biointermediates intended for use to produce cellulosic biofuels, the adjusted cellulosic content of each batch and certification that the cellulosic content of each batch was derived from cellulose, hemicellulose, or lignin that was derived from renewable biomass.

(viii) The volume of each batch produced.

(ix) The types and quantities of feedstocks used.

(x) The renewable fuel type(s) each batch of biointermediate was designated to be used as a feedstock material for.

(xi) The EPA company registration number and EPA facility registration number for each renewable fuel producer or foreign renewable fuel producer that received each batch.

(xii) The percentage of each batch of biointermediate that met the definition of renewable biomass and certification that this portion of the batch of biointermediate was derived from renewable biomass.

(xiii) The process(es) and feedstock(s) used and proportion of biointermediate volume attributable to each process and feedstock.

(xiv) The type of co-products produced with each batch.

(xv) The quantity of co-products produced in each quarter.

(xvi) Any additional information the Administrator may require.

(2) Quarterly reports under this paragraph (j) must be submitted according to the schedule in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(k) All reports required under this section shall be submitted on forms and following procedures prescribed by the Administrator.
