
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Suspended Particulate Matter in the Atmosphere (High-Volume Method)
###### Procedure.

8

(See References 1 and 2 for quality assurance information.)

8.1 Number each filter, if not already numbered, near its edge with a unique identification number.

8.2 Backlight each filter and inspect for pinholes, particles, and other imperfections; filters with visible imperfections must not be used.

8.3 Equilibrate each filter in the conditioning environment for at least 24-hr.

8.4 Following equilibration, weigh each filter to the nearest milligram and record this tare weight (W) with the filter identification number.

8.5 Do not bend or fold the filter before collection of the sample.

8.6 Open the shelter and install a numbered, preweighed filter in the sampler, following the sampler manufacturer's instructions. During inclement weather, precautions must be taken while changing filters to prevent damage to the clean filter and loss of sample from or damage to the exposed filter. Filter cassettes that can be loaded and unloaded in the laboratory may be used to minimize this problem (See Section 6.6).

8.7 Close the shelter and run the sampler for at least 5 min to establish run-temperature conditions.

8.8 Record the flow indicator reading and, if needed, the barometric pressure (P) and the ambient temperature (T) see NOTE following step 8.12). Stop the sampler. Determine the sampler flow rate (see Section 10.1); if it is outside the acceptable range (1.1 to 1.7 m/min [39-60 ft/min]), use a different filter, or adjust the sampler flow rate. Warning: Substantial flow adjustments may affect the calibration of the orifice-type flow indicators and may necessitate recalibration.

8.9 Record the sampler identification information (filter number, site location or identification number, sample date, and starting time).

8.10 Set the timer to start and stop the sampler such that the sampler runs 24-hrs, from midnight to midnight (local time).

8.11 As soon as practical following the sampling period, run the sampler for at least 5 min to again establish run-temperature conditions.

8.12 Record the flow indicator reading and, if needed, the barometric pressure (P) and the ambient temperature (T).

8.13 Stop the sampler and carefully remove the filter, following the sampler manufacturer's instructions. Touch only the outer edges of the filter. See the precautions in step 8.6.

8.14 Fold the filter in half lengthwise so that only surfaces with collected particulate matter are in contact and place it in the filter holder (glassine envelope or manila folder).

8.15 Record the ending time or elapsed time on the filter information record, either from the stop set-point time, from an elapsed time indicator, or from a continuous flow record. The sample period must be 1,440 +/-60 min. for a valid sample.

8.16 Record on the filter information record any other factors, such as meteorological conditions, construction activity, fires or dust storms, etc., that might be pertinent to the measurement. If the sample is known to be defective, void it at this time.

8.17 Equilibrate the exposed filter in the conditioning environment for at least 24-hrs.

8.18 Immediately after equilibration, reweigh the filter to the nearest milligram and record the gross weight with the filter identification number. See Section 10 for TSP concentration calculations.
