
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### 4

() Evidence of the existence and ongoing maintenance of a road system or other physical infrastructure designed and maintained for logging use, together with one of the aforementioned documents in this paragraph (c)(1)(ii)(B).

(iii) RIN-generating foreign producers and importers of renewable fuel made from any other type of renewable biomass must have documents from their feedstock supplier certifying that the feedstock qualifies as renewable biomass as defined in § 80.1401, describing the feedstock and identifying the process that was used to generate the feedstock.

(2) Beginning July 1, 2010, any RIN-generating importer of renewable fuel (as defined in § 80.1401) must keep all of the following records:

(i) Product transfer documents consistent with § 80.1453 and associated with the renewable fuel importer's activity, if any, as transferor or transferee of renewable fuel.

(ii) Copies of all reports submitted to EPA under §§ 80.1449 and 80.1451(b).

(iii) Records related to the generation and assignment of RINs for each facility, including all of the following:

(A) Batch volume in gallons.

(B) Batch number.

(C) RIN as assigned under § 80.1426.

(D) Identification of batches by renewable category.

(E) Type and quantity of feedstocks used.

(F) Type and quantity of fuel used for process heat.

(G) Date of import.

(H) Results of any laboratory analysis of batch chemical composition or physical properties.

(I) The EPA registration number of the foreign renewable fuel producers producing the fuel.

(J) Additional information related to details of RIN generation.

(iv) Records related to each RIN transaction, including all of the following:

(A) A list of the RINs owned, purchased, sold, separated, retired, or reinstated.

(B) The parties involved in each transaction including the transferor, transferee, and any broker or agent.

(C) The date of the transfer of the RIN(s).

(D) Additional information related to details of the transaction and its terms.

(v) Copies of registration documents required under § 80.1450.

(vi) Records related to the import of any volume of renewable fuel that the importer designates for use as transportation fuel, jet fuel, or heating oil.
