
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Requirements for all producers of renewable fuel.

(b)Beginning July 1, 2010, any domestic or RIN-generating foreign producer of a renewable fuel as defined in § 80.1401 must keep all of the following records in addition to those required under paragraphs (c) or (d) of this section:

(1) Product transfer documents consistent with § 80.1453 and associated with the renewable fuel producer's activity, if any, as transferor or transferee of renewable fuel or separated RINs.

(2) Copies of all reports submitted to EPA under §§ 80.1449 and 80.1451(b).

(3) Records related to the generation and assignment of RINs for each facility, including all of the following:

(i) Batch volume in gallons.

(ii) Batch number.

(iii) RIN as assigned under § 80.1426, if applicable.

(iv) Identification of batches by renewable category.

(v) Type and quantity of co-products produced.

(vi) Type and quantity of feedstocks used.

(vii) Type and quantity of biointermediates used.

(viii) Type and quantity of fuel used for process heat.

(ix) Feedstock energy calculations per § 80.1426(f)(4).

(x) Date of production.

(xi) Results of any laboratory analysis of batch chemical composition or physical properties.

(xii) For RINs generated for ethanol produced from corn starch at a facility using a pathway in Table 1 to § 80.1426 that requires the use of one or more of the advanced technologies listed in Table 2 to § 80.1426, documentation to demonstrate that employment of the required advanced technology or technologies was conducted in accordance with the specifications in Tables 1 and 2 to § 80.1426, including any requirement for application to 90% of the production on a calendar year basis.

(xiii) All commercial documents and additional information related to details of RIN generation.

(4) Records related to each RIN transaction, separately for each transaction, including all of the following:

(i) A list of the RINs owned, purchased, sold, separated, retired, or reinstated.

(ii) The parties involved in each transaction including the transferor, transferee, and any broker or agent.

(iii) The date of the transfer of the RIN(s).

(iv) Additional information related to details of the transaction and its terms.

(5) Records related to the production, importation, ownership, sale or use of any volume of renewable fuel for which RINs were generated or blend of renewable fuel for which RINs were generated and gasoline or diesel fuel that any party designates for use as transportation fuel, jet fuel, or heating oil and the use of the fuel or blend as transportation fuel, jet fuel, or heating oil without further blending, in the designated form.

(6) Copies of registration documents required under § 80.1450, including information on fuels and products, feedstocks, biointermediates, facility production processes, process changes, and capacity, energy sources, and a copy of the independent third party engineering review report submitted to EPA per § 80.1450(b)(2).
