
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Requirements for obligated parties and exporters of renewable fuel.

(a)Beginning July 1, 2010, any obligated party (as described at § 80.1406) or exporter of renewable fuel (as described at § 80.1430) must keep all of the following records:

(1) Product transfer documents consistent with § 80.1453 and associated with the obligated party's or exporter of renewable fuel's activity, if any, as transferor or transferee of renewable fuel or separated RINs.

(2) Copies of all reports submitted to EPA under § 80.1451(a), as applicable.

(3) Records related to each RIN transaction, including all of the following:

(i) A list of the RINs owned, purchased, sold, separated, retired, or reinstated.

(ii) The parties involved in each RIN transaction including the transferor, transferee, and any broker or agent.

(iii) The date of the transfer of the RIN(s).

(iv) Additional information, including contracts, correspondence, and invoices, related to details of the RIN transaction and its terms.

(4) Records related to the use of RINs (by facility, if applicable) for compliance, including all of the following:

(i) Methods and variables used to calculate the Renewable Volume Obligations pursuant to § 80.1407 or § 80.1430.

(ii) List of RINs used to demonstrate compliance.

(iii) Additional information related to details of RIN use for compliance.

(5) Records related to the separation of assigned RINs from renewable fuel volume.

(6) For exported renewable fuel, invoices, bills of lading and other documents describing the exported renewable fuel.

(i) For exporters of renewable fuel for which no RINs were generated, an affidavit signed by the producer of the exported renewable fuel affirming that no RINs were generated for that volume of renewable fuel.

(ii) [Reserved]

(7) Any obligated party that uses the provisions of § 80.1444 for a small refinery must keep the following records:

(i) Copies of any notifications submitted to EPA under § 80.1444(e)(2).

(ii) Copies of the methods and variables used to calculate the number of RINs retired for the alternative RIN retirement schedule under § 80.1444(f).
