
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Additional requirements for domestic producers of renewable fuel.

(d)Except as provided in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, beginning July 1, 2010, any domestic producer of renewable fuel as defined in ยง 80.1401 that generates RINs for such fuel must keep documents associated with feedstock purchases and transfers that identify where the feedstocks were produced and are sufficient to verify that feedstocks used are renewable biomass (as defined in ยง 80.1401) if RINs are generated.

(1) Domestic producers of renewable fuel made from feedstocks that are planted trees or tree residue from actively managed tree plantations, slash and pre-commercial thinnings from forestlands or biomass obtained from areas at risk of wildfire must maintain all the following records to verify the location where these feedstocks were produced:

(i) Maps or electronic data identifying the boundaries of the land where each type of feedstock was produced.

(ii) Bills of lading, product transfer documents or other commercial documents showing the quantity of feedstock purchased from each area identified in paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, and showing each transfer of custody of the feedstock from the location where it was produced to the renewable fuel production facility.

(2) Domestic producers of renewable fuel made from planted trees or tree residue from actively managed tree plantations must keep records that serve as evidence that the land from which the feedstock was obtained was cleared prior to December 19, 2007 and actively managed on December 19, 2007. The records must be provided by the feedstock producer and must include at least one of the following documents, which must be traceable to the land in question:

(i) Sales records for planted trees or tree residue.

(ii) Purchasing records for fertilizer, weed control, or reseeding, including seeds, seedlings, or other nursery stock.

(iii) A written management plan for silvicultural purposes.

(iv) Documentation of participation in a silvicultural program sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency.

(v) Documentation of land management in accordance with a silvicultural product certification program, an agreement for land management consultation with a professional forester.

(vi) Evidence of the existence and ongoing maintenance of a road system or other physical infrastructure designed and maintained for logging use, together with one of the aforementioned documents.

(3) Domestic producers of renewable fuel made from planted crops or crop residue from existing foreign agricultural land must keep all the following records:

(i) Records that serve as evidence that the land from which the feedstock was obtained was cleared or cultivated prior to December 19, 2007 and actively managed or fallow, and nonforested on December 19, 2007. The records must be provided by the feedstock producer and must include at least one of the following documents, which must be traceable to the land in question:

(A) Sales records for planted crops, crop residue, or livestock.

(B) Purchasing records for fertilizer, weed control, seeds, seedlings, or other nursery stock.

(C) A written management plan for agricultural purposes.

(D) Documentation of participation in an agricultural program sponsored by a Federal, State, or local government agency.

(E) Documentation of land management in accordance with an agricultural product certification program.

(ii) Records to verify the location where the feedstocks were produced:

(A) Maps or electronic data identifying the boundaries of the land where each type of feedstock was produced; and

(B) Bills of lading, product transfer documents or other commercial documents showing the quantity of feedstock purchased from each area identified in paragraph (d)(3)(ii)(A) of this section, and showing each transfer of custody of the feedstock from the location where it was produced to the renewable fuel facility.

(4) Domestic producers of renewable fuel or biointermediates made from any other type of renewable biomass must have documents from their feedstock supplier certifying that the feedstock qualifies as renewable biomass, describing the feedstock. Separated yard and food waste, biogenic oils/fats/greases, and separated municipal solid waste are also subject to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section.
