
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Suspended Particulate Matter in the Atmosphere (High-Volume Method)
###### Equipment required:

9.2.1Positive displacement standard volume meter traceable to the National Bureau of Standards (such as a Roots meter or equivalent), stop-watch, manometer, thermometer, and barometer.

9.2.2 Connect the flow rate transfer standard to the inlet of the standard volume meter. Connect the manometer to measure the pressure at the inlet of the standard volume meter. Connect the orifice manometer to the pressure tap on the transfer standard. Connect a high-volume air pump (such as a high-volume sampler blower) to the outlet side of the standard volume meter. See Figure 3a.

9.2.3 Check for leaks by temporarily clamping both manometer lines (to avoid fluid loss) and blocking the orifice with a large-diameter rubber stopper, wide cellophane tape, or other suitable means. Start the high-volume air pump and note any change in the standard volume meter reading. The reading should remain constant. If the reading changes, locate any leaks by listening for a whistling sound and/or retightening all connections, making sure that all gaskets are properly installed.

9.2.4 After satisfactorily completing the leak check as described above, unclamp both manometer lines and zero both manometers.

9.2.5 Achieve the appropriate flow rate through the system, either by means of the variable flow resistance in the transfer standard or by varying the voltage to the air pump. (Use of resistance plates as shown in Figure 1a is discouraged because the above leak check must be repeated each time a new resistance plate is installed.) At least five different but constant flow rates, evenly distributed, with at least three in the specified flow rate interval (1.1 to 1.7 m/min [39-60 ft/min]), are required.

9.2.6 Measure and record the certification data on a form similar to the one illustrated in Figure 4 according to the following steps.

9.2.7 Observe the barometric pressure and record as P(item 8 in Figure 4).

9.2.8 Read the ambient temperature in the vicinity of the standard volume meter and record it as T(item 9 in Figure 4).

9.2.9 Start the blower motor, adjust the flow, and allow the system to run for at least 1 min for a constant motor speed to be attained.

9.2.10 Observe the standard volume meter reading and simultaneously start a stopwatch. Record the initial meter reading (V) in column 1 of Figure 4.

9.2.11 Maintain this constant flow rate until at least 3 mof air have passed through the standard volume meter. Record the standard volume meter inlet pressure manometer reading as ΔP (column 5 in Figure 4), and the orifice manometer reading as ΔH (column 7 in Figure 4). Be sure to indicate the correct units of measurement.

9.2.12 After at least 3 mof air have passed through the system, observe the standard volume meter reading while simultaneously stopping the stopwatch. Record the final meter reading (V) in column 2 and the elapsed time (t) in column 3 of Figure 4.

9.2.13 Calculate the volume measured by the standard volume meter at meter conditions of temperature and pressures as V= V-V. Record in column 4 of Figure 4.

9.2.14 Correct this volume to standard volume (std m) as follows:

Record Qto the nearest 0.01 std m/min in column 6 of Figure 4.

9.2.15 Repeat steps 9.2.9 through 9.2.14 for at least four additional constant flow rates, evenly spaced over the approximate range of 1.0 to 1.8 std m/min (35-64 ft/min).

9.2.16 For each flow, compute

9.2.17 Recalibrate the transfer standard annually or as required by applicable quality control procedures. (See Reference 2.)
