
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Additional requirements for producers of renewable fuel using biogas.

(k)(1) Biogas/CNG/LNG and electricity in pathways involving feedstocks other than grain sorghum. A renewable fuel producer that generates RINs for renewable CNG, renewable LNG or renewable electricity pursuant to § 80.1426(f)(10) or (11), or that uses process heat from biogas to produce renewable fuel pursuant to § 80.1426(f)(12) shall keep all of the following additional records:

(i) Documentation recording the sale of renewable CNG, renewable LNG or renewable electricity for use as transportation fuel relied upon in § 80.1426(f)(10), § 80.1426(f)(11), or for use of biogas for process heat to make renewable fuel as relied upon in § 80.1426(f)(12) and the transfer of title of the biogas/CNG/LNG or renewable electricity from the point of biogas production to the facility which sells or uses the fuel for transportation purposes.

(ii) Documents demonstrating the volume and energy content of biogas/CNG/LNG, or kilowatts of renewable electricity, relied upon under § 80.1426(f)(10) that was delivered to the facility which sells or uses the fuel for transportation purposes.

(iii) Documents demonstrating the volume and energy content of biogas/CNG/LNG, or kilowatts of renewable electricity, relied upon under § 80.1426(f)(11), or biogas relied upon under § 80.1426(f)(12) that was placed into the commercial distribution.

(iv) Documents demonstrating the volume and energy content of biogas relied upon under § 80.1426(f)(12) at the point of distribution.

(v) Affidavits, EPA-approved documentation, or data from a real-time electronic monitoring system, confirming that the amount of the biogas/CNG/LNG or renewable electricity relied upon under § 80.1426(f)(10) and (11) was used for transportation purposes only, and for no other purpose. The RIN generator shall obtain affidavits, or monitoring system data under this paragraph (k), at least once per calendar quarter.

(vi) The biogas or renewable electricity producer's Compliance Certification required under Title V of the Clean Air Act.

(vii) Any other records as requested by the Administrator.

(2) Biogas and electricity in pathways involving grain sorghum as feedstock. A renewable fuel producer that produces fuel pursuant to a pathway that uses grain sorghum as a feedstock shall keep all of the following additional records, as appropriate:

(i) Contracts and documents memorializing the purchase and sale of biogas and the transfer of biogas from the point of generation to the ethanol production facility.

(ii) If the advanced biofuel pathway is used, documents demonstrating the total kilowatt-hours (kWh) of electricity used from the grid, and the total kWh of grid electricity used on a per gallon of ethanol basis, pursuant to § 80.1426(f)(13).

(iii) Affidavits from the producer of biogas used at the facility, and all parties that held title to the biogas, confirming that title and environmental attributes of the biogas relied upon under § 80.1426(f)(13) were used for producing ethanol at the renewable fuel production facility and for no other purpose. The renewable fuel producer shall obtain these affidavits at least once per calendar quarter.

(iv) The biogas producer's Compliance Certification required under Title V of the Clean Air Act.

(v) Such other records as may be requested by the Administrator.
