
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Requirements for biointermediate producers.

(i)In addition to any other applicable records a biointermediate producer must maintain under this section, any biointermediate producer producing a biointermediate must keep all of the following records:

(1) Product transfer documents consistent with § 80.1453(f) and associated with the biointermediate producer's activities, if any, as transferor or transferee of biointermediates.

(2) Copies of all reports submitted to EPA under § 80.1451(i).

(3) Records related to the production of biointermediates for each biointermediate production facility, including all of the following:

(i) Batch volume.

(ii) Batch number.

(iii) Type and quantity of co-products produced.

(iv) Type and quantity of feedstocks used.

(v) Type and quantity of fuel used for process heat.

(vi) Calculations per § 80.1426(f), as applicable.

(vii) Date of production.

(viii) Results of any laboratory analysis of batch chemical composition or physical properties.

(4) Copies of registration documents required under § 80.1450, including information on products, feedstocks, facility production processes, process changes, and capacity, energy sources, and a copy of the independent third party engineering review submitted to EPA per § 80.1450(b)(2)(i).

(5) Records demonstrating that feedstocks are renewable biomass, as required under paragraphs (d), (g), (h), and (j) of this section, as applicable.

(6) For any biointermediate made from Arundo donax or Pennisetum purpureum per § 80.1426(f)(14), all applicable records described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(7) Records, including contracts, related to the implementation of a QAP under §§ 80.1469 and 80.1477.
