
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Additional requirements for producers that use separated yard waste, separate food waste, separated municipal solid waste, or biogenic waste oils/fats/greases.

(j)A renewable fuel or biointermediate producer that produces fuel or biointermediate from separated yard waste, separated food waste, separated municipal solid waste, or biogenic waste oils/fats/greases must keep all the following additional records:

(1) For separated yard waste, separated food waste, and biogenic waste oils/fats/greases:

(i) Documents demonstrating the amounts, by weight, purchased of separated yard waste, separated food waste, or biogenic waste oils/fats/greases for use as a feedstock in producing renewable fuel.

(ii) Documents demonstrating the location of any establishment(s) from which the waste stream consisting solely of separated yard waste, separated food waste, or biogenic waste oils/fats/greases is collected.

(iii) Such other records as may be requested by the Administrator.

(2) For separated municipal solid waste:

(i) Contracts and documents memorializing the sale of paper, cardboard, plastics, rubber, textiles, metals, and glass separated from municipal solid waste for recycling.

(ii) Documents demonstrating the amounts by weight purchased of post-recycled separated yard and food waste for use as a feedstock in producing renewable fuel.

(iii) Documents demonstrating the fuel sampling methods used pursuant to ยง 80.1426(f)(9) and the results of all fuel analyses to determine the non-fossil fraction of fuel made from separated municipal solid waste.

(iv) Such other records as may be requested by the Administrator.
