
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Alternative renewable biomass tracking requirement.

(h)Any foreign or domestic renewable fuel producer or RIN-generating importer may comply with the following alternative renewable biomass tracking requirement instead of the recordkeeping requirements in paragraphs (c)(1), (d), and (g) of this section:

(1) To comply with the alternative renewable biomass tracking requirement under this paragraph (h), a renewable fuel producer or importer must either arrange to have an independent third party conduct a comprehensive program of annual compliance surveys, or participate in the funding of an organization which arranged to have an independent third party conduct a comprehensive program of annual compliance surveys, to be carried out in accordance with a survey plan which has been approved by EPA.

(2) The annual compliance surveys under this paragraph (h) must be all the following:

(i) Planned and conducted by an independent surveyor that meets the requirements in 40 CFR 1090.55.

(ii) Conducted at renewable fuel production and import facilities and their feedstock suppliers.

(iii) Representative of all renewable fuel producers and importers in the survey area and representative of their feedstock suppliers.

(iv) Designed to achieve at least the same level of quality assurance required in paragraphs (c)(1), (d) and (g) of this section.

(3) The compliance survey program shall require the independent surveyor conducting the surveys to do all the following:

(i) Conduct feedstock audits of renewable fuel production and import facilities in accordance with the survey plan approved under this paragraph (h), or immediately notify EPA of any refusal of these facilities to allow an audit to be conducted.

(ii) Obtain the records and product transfer documents associated with the feedstocks being audited.

(iii) Determine the feedstock supplier(s) that supplied the feedstocks to the renewable fuel producer.

(iv) Confirm that feedstocks used to produce RIN-generating renewable fuels meet the definition of renewable biomass as defined in ยง 80.1401.

(v) Immediately notify EPA of any case where the feedstocks do not meet the definition of renewable biomass as defined in ยง 80.1401.

(vi) Immediately notify EPA of any instances where a renewable fuel producer, importer or feedstock supplier subject to review under the approved plan fails to cooperate in the manner described in this section.

(vii) Submit to EPA a report of each survey, within thirty days following the completion of each survey, such report to include all the following information:

(A) The identification of the person who conducted the survey.

(B) An attestation by the officer of the surveyor company that the survey was conducted in accordance with the survey plan and the survey results are accurate.

(C) Identification of the parties for whom the survey was conducted.

(D) Identification of the covered area surveyed.

(E) The dates on which the survey was conducted.

(F) The address of each facility at which the survey audit was conducted and the date of the audit.

(G) A description of the methodology used to select the locations for survey audits and the number of audits conducted.

(viii) Maintain all records relating to the survey audits conducted under this section (h) for a period of at least 5 years.

(ix) At any time permit any representative of EPA to monitor the conduct of the surveys, including observing audits, reviewing records, and analysis of the audit results.

(4) A survey plan under this paragraph (h) must include all the following:

(i) Identification of the parties for whom the survey is to be conducted.

(ii) Identification of the independent surveyor.

(iii) A methodology for determining all the following:

(A) When the audits will be conducted.

(B) The audit locations.

(C) The number of audits to be conducted during the annual compliance period.

(iv) Any other elements determined by EPA to be necessary to achieve the level of quality assurance required under paragraphs (c)(1), (d), and (g) of this section.

(5)(i) Each renewable fuel producer and importer who participates in the alternative renewable biomass tracking under this paragraph (h) must take all reasonable steps to ensure that each feedstock producer, aggregator, distributor, or supplier cooperates with this program by allowing the independent surveyor to audit their facility and by providing to the independent surveyor and/or EPA, upon request, copies of management plans, product transfer documents, and other records or information regarding the source of any feedstocks received.

(ii) Reasonable steps under paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section must include, but typically should not be limited to: Contractual agreements with feedstock producers, aggregators, distributors, and suppliers, which require them to cooperate with the independent surveyor and/or EPA in the manner described in paragraph (h)(5)(i) of this section.

(6) The procedure for obtaining EPA approval of a survey plan under this paragraph (h), and for revocation of any such approval, are as follows:

(i) A detailed survey plan which complies with the requirements of this paragraph (h) must be submitted to EPA, no later than September 1 of the year preceding the calendar year in which the surveys will be conducted.

(ii) The survey plan must be signed by a responsible corporate officer of the renewable fuel producer or importer, or responsible officer of the organization which arranges to have an independent surveyor conduct a program of renewable biomass compliance surveys, as applicable.

(iii) The survey plan must be sent to the attention of "RFS Program" to the address in ยง 80.10(a).

(iv) EPA will send a letter to the party submitting a survey plan under this section, either approving or disapproving the survey plan.

(v) EPA may revoke any approval of a survey plan under this section for cause, including an EPA determination that the approved survey plan had proved inadequate in practice or that it was not fully implemented.

(vi) The approving official for an alternative quality assurance program under this section is the Director of the Compliance and Innovative Strategies Division, Office of Transportation and Air Quality.

(vii) Any notifications required under this paragraph (h) must be directed to the officer designated in paragraph (h)(6)(vi) of this section.

(7)(i) No later than December 1 of the year preceding the year in which the surveys will be conducted, the contract with the independent surveyor shall be in effect, and an amount of money necessary to carry out the entire survey plan shall be paid to the independent surveyor or placed into an escrow account with instructions to the escrow agent to pay the money to the independent surveyor during the course of the conduct of the survey plan.

(ii) No later than December 15 of the year preceding the year in which the surveys will be conducted, EPA must receive a copy of the contract with the independent surveyor, proof that the money necessary to carry out the survey plan has either been paid to the independent surveyor or placed into an escrow account, and, if placed into an escrow account, a copy of the escrow agreement, to be sent to the official designated in paragraph (h)(6)(iii) of this section.
