
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Aggregate compliance with renewable biomass requirement.

(g)Any producer or RIN-generating importer of renewable fuel made from planted crops or crop residue from existing U.S. agricultural land as defined in § 80.1401, or from planted crops or crop residue from existing agricultural land in a country covered by a petition approved pursuant to § 80.1457, is covered by the aggregate compliance approach and is not subject to the recordkeeping requirements for planted crops and crop residue at § 80.1454(g)(2) unless EPA publishes a finding that the 2007 baseline amount of agricultural land in the U.S. has been exceeded or, for the aggregate compliance approach in a foreign country, that the withdrawal of EPA approval of the aggregate compliance approach is warranted pursuant to § 80.1457(e).

(1) EPA will make findings concerning whether the 2007 baseline amount of agricultural land in the U.S. or other country covered by a petition approved pursuant to § 80.1457 has been exceeded and will publish these findings in theby November 30 of the year preceding the compliance period.

(2) If EPA finds that the 2007 baseline amount of agricultural land in the U.S. or other country covered by a petition approved pursuant to § 80.1457 has been exceeded, beginning on the first day of July of the compliance period in question any producer or RIN-generating importer of renewable fuel made from planted crops or crop residue in the country for which such a finding is made must keep all the following records:

(i) Records that serve as evidence that the land from which the feedstock was obtained was cleared or cultivated prior to December 19, 2007 and actively managed or fallow, and nonforested on December 19, 2007. The records must be provided by the feedstock producer and must include at least one of the following documents, which must be traceable to the land in question:

(A) Sales records for planted crops, crop residue or livestock.

(B) Purchasing records for fertilizer, weed control, seeds, seedlings, or other nursery stock.

(C) A written management plan for agricultural purposes.

(D) Documentation of participation in an agricultural program sponsored by a Federal, state, or local government agency.

(E) Documentation of land management in accordance with an agricultural product certification program.

(ii) Records to verify the location where the feedstocks were produced:

(A) Maps or electronic data identifying the boundaries of the land where each type of feedstock was produced; and

(B) Bills of lading, product transfer documents or other commercial documents showing the quantity of feedstock purchased from each area identified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, and showing each transfer of custody of the feedstock from the location where it was produced to the renewable fuel facility.
