
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Suspended Particulate Matter in the Atmosphere (High-Volume Method)
###### Calibration of sampler flow indicator.

9.3

9.3.1 A form similar to the one illustrated in Figure 5 should be used to record the calibration data.

9.3.2 Connect the transfer standard to the inlet of the sampler. Connect the orifice manometer to the orifice pressure tap, as illustrated in Figure 3b. Make sure there are no leaks between the orifice unit and the sampler.

9.3.3 Operate the sampler for at least 5 minutes to establish thermal equilibrium prior to the calibration.

9.3.4 Measure and record the ambient temperature, T, and the barometric pressure, P, during calibration.

9.3.5 Adjust the variable resistance or, if applicable, insert the appropriate resistance plate (or no plate) to achieve the desired flow rate.

9.3.6 Let the sampler run for at least 2 min to re-establish the run-temperature conditions. Read and record the pressure drop across the orifice (ΔH) and the sampler flow rate indication (I) in the appropriate columns of Figure 5.

9.3.7 Calculate &#x221A;ΔΔH(P/P)(298/T) and determine the flow rate at standard conditions (Q) either graphically from the certification curve or by calculating Qfrom the least square slope and intercept of the transfer standard's transposed certification curve: Q= 1/m &#x221A;ΔH(P/P)(298/T)-b. Record the value of Qon Figure 5.

9.3.8 Repeat steps 9.3.5, 9.3.6, and 9.3.7 for several additional flow rates distributed over a range that includes 1.1 to 1.7 std m/min.

9.3.9 Determine the calibration curve by plotting values of the appropriate expression involving I, selected from table 1, against Q. The choice of expression from table 1 depends on the flow rate measurement device used (see Section 7.4.1) and also on whether the calibration curve is to incorporate geographic average barometric pressure (P) and seasonal average temperature (T) for the site to approximate actual pressure and temperature. Where Pand Tcan be determined for a site for a seasonal period such that the actual barometric pressure and temperature at the site do not vary by more than +/-60 mm Hg (8 kPa) from Por +/-15 &#xB0;C from T, respectively, then using Pand Tavoids the need for subsequent pressure and temperature calculation when the sampler is used. The geographic average barometric pressure (P) may be estimated from an altitude-pressure table or by making an (approximate) elevation correction of -26 mm Hg (-3.46 kPa) for each 305 m (1,000 ft) above sea level (760 mm Hg or 101 kPa). The seasonal average temperature (T) may be estimated from weather station or other records. Be sure to use consistent units (mm Hg or kPa) for barometric pressure.

9.3.10 Draw the sampler calibration curve or calculate the linear least squares slope (m), intercept (b), and correlation coefficient of the calibration curve: [Expression from table 1]= mQ+ b. See Figures 3 and 5. Calibration curves should be readable to 0.02 std m/min.

9.3.11 For a sampler equipped with a flow controller, the flow controlling mechanism should be re-enabled and set to a flow near the lower flow limit to allow maximum control range. The sample flow rate should be verified at this time with a clean filter installed. Then add two or more filters to the sampler to see if the flow controller maintains a constant flow; this is particularly important at high altitudes where the range of the flow controller may be reduced.

9.4 Alternate calibration of flow-controlled samplers. A flow-controlled sampler may be calibrated solely at its controlled flow rate, provided that previous operating history of the sampler demonstrates that the flow rate is stable and reliable. In this case, the flow indicator may remain uncalibrated but should be used to indicate any relative change between initial and final flows, and the sampler should be recalibrated more often to minimize potential loss of samples because of controller malfunction.

9.4.1 Set the flow controller for a flow near the lower limit of the flow range to allow maximum control range.

9.4.2 Install a clean filter in the sampler and carry out steps 9.3.2, 9.3.3, 9.3.4, 9.3.6, and 9.3.7.

9.4.3 Following calibration, add one or two additional clean filters to the sampler, reconnect the transfer standard, and operate the sampler to verify that the controller maintains the same calibrated flow rate; this is particularly important at high altitudes where the flow control range may be reduced.
