
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1454 What are the recordkeeping requirements under the RFS program?
####### Requirements for independent third-party auditors.

(m)Any independent third-party auditor (as described at § 80.1471) must keep all of the following records for a period of at least five years:

(1) Copies of all reports submitted to the EPA under § 80.1451(g), as applicable.

(2) Records related to the implementation of a QAP under § 80.1469 for each facility including records from facility audits and ongoing and quarterly monitoring activities.

(3) Records related to the verification of RINs under § 80.1471(e).

(4) Copies of communications sent to and received from renewable fuel producers or foreign renewable fuel producers, feedstock suppliers, purchasers of RINs, and obligated parties.

(5) Copies of all notes relating to the implementation of a QAP under § 80.1469.

(6) List of RINs reported to the EPA and renewable fuel producers or foreign renewable fuel producers as potentially invalidly generated under § 80.1474 compliance.

(7) Records related to the professional liability insurance requirement under § 80.1471(c).

(8) Copies of all records related to any financial assurance instrument as required under § 80.1470 under a quality assurance plan implemented under § 80.1469(a) during the interim period.

(9) Copies of all records and notifications related to the identification of a potentially invalid RIN under § 80.1474(b).

(10) Copies of all reports required under § 80.1464.

(11) Such other records as may be requested by the Administrator.
