
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1457 Petition process for aggregate compliance approach for foreign countries.

(a) EPA may approve a petition for application of the aggregate compliance approach to planted crops and crop residue from existing agricultural land in a foreign country if EPA determines that an aggregate compliance approach will provide reasonable assurance that planted crops and crop residue from the country in question meet the definition of renewable biomass and will continue to meet the definition of renewable biomass, based on the submission of credible, reliable, and verifiable data.

(1) As part of its evaluation, EPA will consider all of the following:

(i) Whether there has been a reasonable identification of the "2007 baseline area of land," defined as the total amount of cropland, pastureland, and land that is equivalent to U.S. Conservation Reserve Program land in the country in question that was actively managed or fallow and nonforested on December 19, 2007.

(ii) Whether information on the total amount of cropland, pastureland, and land that is equivalent to U.S. Conservation Reserve Program land in the country in question for years preceding and following calendar year 2007 shows that the 2007 baseline area of land identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is not likely to be exceeded in the future.

(iii) Whether economic considerations, legal constraints, historical land use and agricultural practices and other factors show that it is likely that producers of planted crops and crop residue will continue to use agricultural land within the 2007 baseline area of land identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section into the future, as opposed to clearing and cultivating land not included in the 2007 baseline area of land.

(iv) Whether there is a reliable method to evaluate on an annual basis whether the 2007 baseline area of land identified in paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section is being or has been exceeded.

(v) Whether a credible and reliable entity has been identified to conduct data gathering and analysis, including annual identification of the aggregate amount of cropland, pastureland, and land that is equivalent to U.S. Conservation Reserve Program land, needed for the annual EPA evaluation specified in § 80.1454(g)(1), and whether the data, analyses, and methodologies are publicly available.

(2) [Reserved]

(b) Any petition and all supporting materials submitted under paragraph (a) of this section must be submitted both in English and its original language (if other than English), and must include all of the following or an explanation of why it is not needed for EPA to consider the petition:

(1) Maps or electronic data identifying the boundaries of the land for which the petitioner seeks approval of an aggregate compliance approach.

(2) The total amount of land that is cropland, pastureland, or land equivalent to U.S. Conservation Reserve Program land within the geographic boundaries specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section that was cleared or cultivated prior to December 19, 2007 and that was actively managed or fallow and nonforested on that date, and

(3) Land use data that demonstrates that the land identified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is cropland, pastureland or land equivalent to U.S. Conservation Reserve Program land that was cleared or cultivated prior to December 19, 2007, and that was actively managed or fallow and nonforested on that date, which may include any of the following:

(i) Satellite imagery or data.

(ii) Aerial photography.

(iii) Census data.

(iv) Agricultural survey data.

(v) Agricultural economic modeling data.

(4) Historical land use data for the land within the geographic boundaries specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section to the current year, which may include any of the following:

(i) Satellite imagery or data.

(ii) Aerial photography.

(iii) Census data.

(iv) Agricultural surveys.

(v) Agricultural economic modeling data.

(5) A description of any applicable laws, agricultural practices, economic considerations, or other relevant factors that had or may have an effect on the use of agricultural land within the geographic boundaries specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, including information regarding the efficacy and enforcement of relevant laws and regulations.

(6) A plan describing how the petitioner will identify a credible and reliable entity who will, on a continuing basis, conduct data gathering, analysis, and submittal to assist EPA in making an annual determination of whether the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section remains satisfied.

(7) A letter, signed by a national government representative at the ministerial level or equivalent, confirming that the petition and all supporting data have been reviewed and verified by the ministry (or ministries) or department(s) of the national government with primary expertise in agricultural land use patterns, practices, data, and statistics, that the data support a finding that planted crops and crop residue from the specified country meet the definition of renewable biomass and will continue to meet the definition of renewable biomass, and that the responsible national government ministry (or ministries) or department(s) will review and verify the data submitted on an annual basis to facilitate EPA's annual evaluation of the 2007 baseline area of land specified in § 80.1454(g)(1) for the country in question.

(8) Any additional information the Administrator may require.

(c) EPA will issue anotice informing the public of receipt of any petition submitted pursuant to this section and will provide a 60-day period for public comment. If EPA approves a petition it will issue anotice announcing its decision and specifying an effective date for the application of the aggregate compliance approach to planted crops and crop residue from the country. Thereafter, the planted crops and crop residue from the country will be covered by the aggregate compliance approach set forth in § 80.1454(g), or as otherwise specified pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section.

(d) If EPA grants a petition to establish an aggregate compliance approach for planted crops and crop residue from a foreign country, it may include any conditions that EPA considers appropriate in light of the conditions and circumstances involved.

(e)(1) EPA may withdraw its approval of the aggregate compliance approach for the planted crops and crop residue from the country in question if:

(i) EPA determines that the data submitted pursuant to the plan described in paragraph (b)(6) of this section does not demonstrate that the amount of cropland, pastureland and land equivalent to U.S. Conservation Reserve Program land within the geographic boundaries covered by the approved petition does not exceed the 2007 baseline area of land;

(ii) EPA determines based on other information that the criteria specified in paragraph (a) of this section is no longer satisfied; or

(iii) EPA determines that the data needed for its annual evaluation has not been collected and submitted in a timely and appropriate manner.

(2) If EPA withdraws its approval for a given country, then producers using planted crops or crop residue from that country will be subject to the individual recordkeeping and reporting requirements of § 80.1454(b) through (d) in accordance with the schedule specified in § 80.1454(g).
