
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1455 What are the small volume provisions for renewable fuel production facilities and importers?
####### Standard volume threshold.

(a)Renewable fuel production facilities located within the United States that produce less than 10,000 gallons of renewable fuel each year, and importers who import less than 10,000 gallons of renewable fuel each year, are not subject to the requirements of § 80.1426(a) and (e) related to the generation and assignment of RINs to batches of renewable fuel. Except as stated in paragraph (b) of this section, such production facilities and importers that do not generate and assign RINs to batches of renewable fuel are also exempt from all the following requirements of this subpart:

(1) The registration requirements of § 80.1450.

(2) The reporting requirements of § 80.1451.

(3) The EMTS requirements of § 80.1452.

(4) The recordkeeping requirements of § 80.1454.

(5) The attest engagement requirements of § 80.1464.

(6) The production outlook report requirements of § 80.1449.

(b)(1) Renewable fuel production facilities and importers who produce or import less than 10,000 gallons of renewable fuel each year and that generate and assign RINs to batches of renewable fuel are subject to the provisions of §§ 80.1426, 80.1449 through 80.1452, 80.1454, and 80.1464.

(2) Renewable fuel production facilities and importers who produce or import less than 10,000 gallons of renewable fuel each year but wish to own RINs will be subject to all requirements stated in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(6) and (b)(1) of this section, and all other applicable requirements of this subpart M.
