
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix B to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Suspended Particulate Matter in the Atmosphere (High-Volume Method)
###### 11:

3. Wedding, J. B., A. R. McFarland, and J. E. Cernak. Large Particle Collection Characteristics of Ambient Aerosol Samplers. Environ. Sci. Technol.387-390, 1977.

4. McKee, H. C., et al. Collaborative Testing of Methods to Measure Air Pollutants, I. The High-Volume Method for Suspended Particulate Matter. J. Air Poll. Cont. Assoc., 22 (342), 1972.

5. Clement, R. E., and F. W. Karasek. Sample Composition Changes in Sampling and Analysis of Organic Compounds in Aerosols. The Intern. J. Environ. Anal. Chem., 7:109, 1979.

6. Lee, R. E., Jr., and J. Wagman. A Sampling Anomaly in the Determination of Atmospheric Sulfuric Concentration. Am. Ind. Hygiene Assoc. J., 27:266, 1966.

7. Appel, B. R., et al. Interference Effects in Sampling Particulate Nitrate in Ambient Air. Atmospheric Environment, 13:319, 1979.

8. Tierney, G. P., and W. D. Conner. Hygroscopic Effects on Weight Determinations of Particulates Collected on Glass-Fiber Filters. Am. Ind. Hygiene Assoc. J., 28:363, 1967.

9. Chahal, H. S., and D. J. Romano. High-Volume Sampling Effect of Windborne Particulate Matter Deposited During Idle Periods. J. Air Poll. Cont. Assoc., Vol. 26 (885), 1976.

10. Patterson, R. K. Aerosol Contamination from High-Volume Sampler Exhaust. J. Air Poll. Cont. Assoc., Vol. 30 (169), 1980.

11. EPA Test Procedures for Determining pH and Integrity of High-Volume Air Filters. QAD/M-80.01. Available from the Methods Standardization Branch, Quality Assurance Division, Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory (MD-77), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, 1980.

12. Smith, F., P. S. Wohlschlegel, R. S. C. Rogers, and D. J. Mulligan. Investigation of Flow Rate Calibration Procedures Associated with the High-Volume Method for Determination of Suspended Particulates. EPA-600/4-78-047, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Research Triangle Park, NC, June 1978.
