
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1464 What are the attest engagement requirements under the RFS program?
####### Annual compliance demonstration report.

(1)(i) Obtain and read a copy of the annual compliance demonstration report required under § 80.1451(a)(1) which contains information regarding all the following:

(A) The obligated party's volume of all products listed in § 80.1407(c) and (e), or the exporter of renewable fuel's volume of each category of exported renewable fuel identified in § 80.1430(b)(1) through (b)(4).

(B) RVOs.

(C) RINs used for compliance.

(ii) Obtain documentation of any volumes of renewable fuel used in products listed in § 80.1407(c) and (e) at the refinery or import facility or exported during the reporting year; compute and report as a finding the total volumes of renewable fuel represented in these documents.

(iii) For obligated parties, compare the volumes of products listed in § 80.1407(c), (e), and (f) reported to EPA in the report required under § 80.1451(a)(1) with the volumes, excluding any renewable fuel volumes, contained in the inventory reconciliation analysis under 40 CFR 1090.1810 and the volume of non-renewable diesel produced or imported. Verify that the volumes reported to EPA agree with the volumes in the inventory reconciliation analysis and the volumes of non-renewable diesel produced or imported, and report as a finding any exception.

(iv) For exporters of renewable fuel, perform all of the following:

(A) Obtain the database, spreadsheet, or other documentation that the exporter of renewable fuel maintains for all exported renewable fuel.

(B) Compare the volume of products identified in these documents with the volumes reported to EPA.

(C) Verify that the volumes reported to EPA agree with the volumes identified in the database, spreadsheet, or other documentation, and report as a finding any exception.

(D) Select sample batches in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805 from each separate category of renewable fuel exported and identified in § 80.1451(a); obtain invoices, bills of lading and other documentation for the representative samples; state whether any of these documents refer to the exported fuel as advanced biofuel or cellulosic biofuel; and report as a finding whether or not the exporter of renewable fuel calculated an advanced biofuel or cellulosic biofuel RVO for these fuels pursuant to § 80.1430(b)(1) or (3).

(v) Compute and report as a finding the RVOs for the obligated party or exporter of renewable fuel, and any deficit RVOs carried over from the previous year or carried into the subsequent year, and verify that the values agree with the values reported to EPA.

(vi) Obtain the database, spreadsheet, or other documentation for all RINs by type of renewable fuel used for compliance during the year being reviewed; calculate the total number of RINs associated with each type of renewable fuel used for compliance by year of generation represented in these documents; state whether this information agrees with the report to EPA and report as a finding any exceptions.

(vii) For obligated parties that redesignate certified NTDF as MVNRLM diesel fuel under § 80.1408, perform the additional attest engagement procedures described at § 80.1475 and report any findings in the report described in paragraph (d) of this section. Parties that do not incur an RVO under § 80.1408(a)(2)(i) and do not otherwise need to complete an attest engagement under this paragraph (a) do not need to arrange for the additional attest engagement procedures under § 80.1475 to be performed.
