
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1464 What are the attest engagement requirements under the RFS program?
####### RIN generation reports.

(1)(i) Obtain and read copies of the reports required under § 80.1451(b)(1), (e), and (d) for the compliance year.

(ii) Obtain production data for each renewable fuel batch by type of renewable fuel that was produced or imported during the year being reviewed; compute the RIN numbers, production dates, types, volumes of ethanol denaturant and applicable equivalence values, and production volumes for each batch; report the total RINs generated during the year being reviewed; and state whether this information agrees with the party's reports to EPA. Report as a finding any exceptions.

(iii) Verify that the proper number of RINs were generated and assigned pursuant to the requirements of § 80.1426 for each batch of renewable fuel produced or imported. For RINs generated for ethanol produced from corn starch at a facility using a pathway in Table 1 to § 80.1426 that requires the use of one or more of the advanced technologies listed in Table 2 to § 80.1426, verify that the required advanced technology or technologies were employed in accordance with the specifications in Tables 1 and 2 to § 80.1426, including any requirement for application to 90% of the production on a calendar year basis.

(iv) Obtain product transfer documents for a representative sample, selected in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805, of renewable fuel batches produced or imported during the year being reviewed; verify that the product transfer documents contain the applicable information required under § 80.1453; verify the accuracy of the information contained in the product transfer documents; report as a finding any product transfer document that does not contain the applicable information required under § 80.1453.

(v)(A) Obtain documentation, as required under § 80.1451(b), (d), and (e), associated with feedstock and biointermediate purchases for a representative sample of feedstocks and biointermediates separately, selected in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805, of renewable fuel batches produced or imported during the year being reviewed.

(B) Verify that feedstocks were properly identified in the reports and met the definition of renewable biomass in § 80.1401.

(C) Verify that biointermediates were properly identified in the reports, as applicable.
