
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1466 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for foreign renewable fuel producers and importers of renewable fuels?
####### Load port independent testing and producer identification.

(d)(1) On each occasion that RFS-FRRF is loaded onto a vessel for transport to the United States the RIN-generating foreign producer shall have an independent third party do all the following:

(i) Inspect the vessel prior to loading and determine the volume of any tank bottoms.

(ii) Determine the volume of RFS-FRRF, standardized per ยง 80.1426(f)(8), loaded onto the vessel (exclusive of any tank bottoms before loading).

(iii) Obtain the EPA-assigned registration number of the foreign renewable fuel producer.

(iv) Determine the name and country of registration of the vessel used to transport the RFS-FRRF to the United States.

(v) Determine the date and time the vessel departs the port serving the RIN-generating foreign producer.

(vi) Review original documents that reflect movement and storage of the RFS-FRRF from the RIN-generating foreign producer to the load port, and from this review determine all the following:

(A) The facility at which the RFS-FRRF was produced.

(B) That the RFS-FRRF remained segregated from Non-RFS-FRRF and other RFS-FRRF produced by a different foreign producer.

(2) The independent third party shall submit a report to the following:

(i) The RIN-generating foreign producer, containing the information required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, to accompany the product transfer documents for the vessel.

(ii) The Administrator, containing the information required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section, within thirty days following the date of the independent third party's inspection. This report shall include a description of the method used to determine the identity of the foreign producer facility at which the renewable fuel was produced, assurance that the renewable fuel remained segregated as specified in paragraph (j)(1) of this section, and a description of the renewable fuel's movement and storage between production at the source facility and vessel loading.

(3) The independent third party must:

(i) Be approved in advance by EPA, based on a demonstration of ability to perform the procedures required in this paragraph (d);

(ii) Be independent under the criteria specified in 40 CFR 1090.1805; and

(iii) Sign a commitment that contains the provisions specified in paragraph (f) of this section with regard to activities, facilities and documents relevant to compliance with the requirements of this paragraph (d).
