
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1466 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for foreign renewable fuel producers and importers of renewable fuels?
####### Foreign producer commitments.

(f)Any foreign renewable fuel producer shall commit to and comply with the following provisions as a condition to being registered as a foreign renewable fuel producer under this subpart:

(1) Any EPA inspector or auditor must be given full, complete, and immediate access to conduct inspections and audits of the foreign renewable fuel producer facility.

(i) Inspections and audits may be either announced in advance by EPA, or unannounced.

(ii) Access will be provided to any location where:

(A) Renewable fuel is produced;

(B) Documents related to renewable fuel producer operations are kept; and

(C) Renewable fuel is stored or transported between the foreign renewable fuel producer and the United States, including storage tanks, vessels and pipelines.

(iii) EPA inspectors and auditors may be EPA employees or contractors to EPA.

(iv) Any documents requested that are related to matters covered by inspections and audits must be provided to an EPA inspector or auditor on request.

(v) Inspections and audits may include review and copying of any documents related to the following:

(A) The volume of renewable fuel.

(B) The proper classification of renewable fuel as being RFS-FRRF.

(C) Transfers of title or custody to renewable fuel.

(D) Work performed and reports prepared by independent third parties and by independent auditors under the requirements of this section, including work papers.

(vi) Inspections and audits by EPA may include interviewing employees.

(vii) Any employee of the foreign renewable fuel producer must be made available for interview by the EPA inspector or auditor, on request, within a reasonable time period.

(viii) English language translations of any documents must be provided to an EPA inspector or auditor, on request, within 10 working days.

(ix) English language interpreters must be provided to accompany EPA inspectors and auditors, on request.

(2) An agent for service of process located in the District of Columbia shall be named, and service on this agent constitutes service on the foreign renewable fuel producer or any employee of the foreign renewable fuel producer for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this subpart.

(3) The forum for any civil or criminal enforcement action related to the provisions of this section for violations of the Clean Air Act or regulations promulgated thereunder shall be governed by the Clean Air Act, including the EPA administrative forum where allowed under the Clean Air Act.

(4) United States substantive and procedural laws shall apply to any civil or criminal enforcement action against the foreign renewable fuel producer or any employee of the foreign renewable fuel producer related to the provisions of this section.

(5) Applying to be an approved foreign renewable fuel producer under this section, or producing or exporting renewable fuel under such approval, and all other actions to comply with the requirements of this subpart relating to such approval constitute actions or activities covered by and within the meaning of the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1605(a)(2), but solely with respect to actions instituted against the foreign renewable fuel producer, its agents and employees in any court or other tribunal in the United States for conduct that violates the requirements applicable to the foreign renewable fuel producer under this subpart, including conduct that violates the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 1001) and section 113(c)(2) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7413).

(6) The foreign renewable fuel producer, or its agents or employees, will not seek to detain or to impose civil or criminal remedies against EPA inspectors or auditors for actions performed within the scope of EPA employment or contract related to the provisions of this section.

(7) The commitment required by this paragraph shall be signed by the owner or president of the foreign renewable fuel producer company.

(8) In any case where renewable fuel produced at a foreign renewable fuel production facility is stored or transported by another company between the production facility and the vessel that transports the renewable fuel to the United States, the foreign renewable fuel producer shall obtain from each such other company a commitment that meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (7) of this section, and these commitments shall be included in the foreign renewable fuel producer's application to be an approved foreign renewable fuel producer under this subpart.
