
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1466 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for foreign renewable fuel producers and importers of renewable fuels?
####### Designation, RIN-generating foreign producer certification, and product transfer documents.

(c)(1) Any registered foreign renewable fuel producer must designate each batch of such renewable fuel as "RFS-FRRF" at the time the renewable fuel is produced.

(2) On each occasion when RFS-FRRF is transferred for transport to a vessel or loaded onto a vessel or other transportation mode for transport to the United States, the RIN-generating foreign producer shall prepare a certification for each batch of RFS-FRRF; the certification shall include the report of the independent third party under paragraph (d) of this section, and all the following additional information:

(i) The name and EPA registration number of the company that produced the RFS-FRRF.

(ii) The identification of the renewable fuel as RFS-FRRF.

(iii) The identification of the renewable fuel by type, D code, and number of RINs generated.

(iv) The volume of RFS-FRRF, standardized per ยง 80.1426(f)(8), being transported, in gallons.

(3) On each occasion when any person transfers custody or title to any RFS-FRRF prior to its being imported into the United States, it must include all the following information as part of the product transfer document information:

(i) Designation of the renewable fuel as RFS-FRRF.

(ii) The certification required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.
