
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1467 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for a foreign RIN owner?
####### Foreign RIN owner commitments.

(c)Any person shall commit to and comply with the provisions contained in this paragraph (c) as a condition to being approved as a foreign RIN owner under this subpart.

(1) Any United States Environmental Protection Agency inspector or auditor must be given full, complete, and immediate access to conduct inspections and audits of the foreign RIN owner's place of business.

(i) Inspections and audits may be either announced in advance by EPA, or unannounced.

(ii) Access will be provided to any location where documents related to RINs the foreign RIN owner has obtained, sold, transferred or held are kept.

(iii) Inspections and audits may be by EPA employees or contractors to EPA.

(iv) Any documents requested that are related to matters covered by inspections and audits must be provided to an EPA inspector or auditor on request.

(v) Inspections and audits by EPA may include review and copying of any documents related to the following:

(A) Transfers of title to RINs.

(B) Work performed and reports prepared by independent auditors under the requirements of this section, including work papers.

(vi) Inspections and audits by EPA may include interviewing employees.

(vii) Any employee of the foreign RIN owner must be made available for interview by the EPA inspector or auditor, on request, within a reasonable time period.

(viii) English language translations of any documents must be provided to an EPA inspector or auditor, on request, within 10 working days.

(ix) English language interpreters must be provided to accompany EPA inspectors and auditors, on request.

(2) An agent for service of process located in the District of Columbia shall be named, and service on this agent constitutes service on the foreign RIN owner or any employee of the foreign RIN owner for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this subpart.

(3) The forum for any civil or criminal enforcement action related to the provisions of this section for violations of the Clean Air Act or regulations promulgated thereunder shall be governed by the Clean Air Act, including the EPA administrative forum where allowed under the Clean Air Act.

(4) United States substantive and procedural laws shall apply to any civil or criminal enforcement action against the foreign RIN owner or any employee of the foreign RIN owner related to the provisions of this section.

(5) Submitting an application to be a foreign RIN owner, and all other actions to comply with the requirements of this subpart constitute actions or activities covered by and within the meaning of the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1605(a)(2), but solely with respect to actions instituted against the foreign RIN owner, its agents and employees in any court or other tribunal in the United States for conduct that violates the requirements applicable to the foreign RIN owner under this subpart, including conduct that violates the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 1001) and section 113(c)(2) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7413).

(6) The foreign RIN owner, or its agents or employees, will not seek to detain or to impose civil or criminal remedies against EPA inspectors or auditors, whether EPA employees or EPA contractors, for actions performed within the scope of EPA employment related to the provisions of this section.

(7) The commitment required by this paragraph (c) shall be signed by the owner or president of the foreign RIN owner business.
