
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1466 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for foreign renewable fuel producers and importers of renewable fuels?
####### Truck imports of RFS-FRRF produced by a RIN-generating foreign producer.

(l)(1) Any RIN-generating foreign producer whose RFS-FRRF is transported into the United States by truck may petition EPA to use alternative procedures to meet all the following requirements:

(i) Certification under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(ii) Load port and port of entry testing under paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(iii) Importer testing under paragraph (k)(2) of this section.

(2) These alternative procedures must ensure RFS-FRRF remains segregated from Non-RFS-FRRF until it is imported into the United States. The petition will be evaluated based on whether it adequately addresses all of the following:

(i) Contracts with any facilities that receive and/or transport RFS-FRRF that prohibit the commingling of RFS-FRRF with Non-RFS-FRRF or RFS-FRRF from other foreign renewable fuel producers.

(ii) Attest procedures to be conducted annually by an independent third party that review loading records and import documents based on volume reconciliation to confirm that all RFS-FRRF remains segregated.

(3) The petition described in this section must be submitted to EPA along with the application for approval as a RIN-generating foreign producer under this subpart.
