
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1466 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for foreign renewable fuel producers and importers of renewable fuels?
####### Additional attest requirements for producers of RFS-FRRF.

(m)The following additional procedures shall be carried out by any producer of RFS-FRRF as part of the attest engagement required for renewable fuel producers under this subpart M.

(1) Obtain listings of all tenders of RFS-FRRF. Agree the total volume of tenders from the listings to the volumes determined by the third party under paragraph (d) of this section.

(2) For each tender under paragraph (m)(1) of this section, where the renewable fuel is loaded onto a marine vessel, report as a finding the name and country of registration of each vessel, and the volumes of RFS-FRRF loaded onto each vessel.

(3) Select a sample from the list of vessels identified in paragraph (m)(2) of this section used to transport RFS-FRRF, in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805, and for each vessel selected perform all the following:

(i) Obtain the report of the independent third party, under paragraph (d) of this section, and of the United States importer under paragraph (k) of this section.

(A) Agree the information in these reports with regard to vessel identification and renewable fuel volume.

(B) Identify, and report as a finding, each occasion the load port and port of entry volume results differ by more than the amount allowed in paragraph (e) of this section, and determine whether the importer retired the appropriate amount of RINs as required under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and submitted the applicable reports under ยง 80.1451 in accordance with paragraph (k)(4) of this section.

(ii) Obtain the documents used by the independent third party to determine transportation and storage of the RFS-FRRF from the RIN-generating foreign producer's facility to the load port, under paragraph (d) of this section. Obtain tank activity records for any storage tank where the RFS-FRRF is stored, and activity records for any mode of transportation used to transport the RFS-FRRF prior to being loaded onto the vessel. Use these records to determine whether the RFS-FRRF was produced at the RIN-generating foreign producer's facility that is the subject of the attest engagement, and whether the RFS-FRRF was mixed with any Non-RFS-FRRF or any RFS-FRRF produced at a different facility.

(4) Select a sample from the list of vessels identified in paragraph (m)(2) of this section used to transport RFS-FRRF, in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805, and for each vessel selected perform the following:

(i) Obtain a commercial document of general circulation that lists vessel arrivals and departures, and that includes the port and date of departure of the vessel, and the port of entry and date of arrival of the vessel.

(ii) Agree the vessel's departure and arrival locations and dates from the independent third party and United States importer reports to the information contained in the commercial document.

(5) Obtain a separate listing of the tenders under this paragraph (m)(5) where the RFS-FRRF is loaded onto a marine vessel. Select a sample from this listing in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805, and obtain a commercial document of general circulation that lists vessel arrivals and departures, and that includes the port and date of departure and the ports and dates where the renewable fuel was offloaded for the selected vessels. Determine and report as a finding the country where the renewable fuel was offloaded for each vessel selected.

(6) In order to complete the requirements of this paragraph (m) an auditor shall:

(i) Be independent of the RIN-generating foreign producer;

(ii) Be licensed as a Certified Public Accountant in the United States and a citizen of the United States, or be approved in advance by EPA based on a demonstration of ability to perform the procedures required in 40 CFR 1090.1800, ยง 80.1464, and this paragraph (m); and

(iii) Sign a commitment that contains the provisions specified in paragraph (f) of this section with regard to activities and documents relevant to compliance with the requirements of 40 CFR 1090.1800, ยง 80.1464, and this paragraph (m).
