
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1466 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for foreign renewable fuel producers and importers of renewable fuels?
####### Requirements for United States importers of RFS-FRRF.

(k)Any United States importers of RFS-FRRF shall meet all the following requirements:

(1) Renewable fuel shall be classified as RFS-FRRF according to the designation by the RIN-generating foreign producer if this designation is supported by product transfer documents prepared by the foreign producer as required in paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) For each renewable fuel batch classified as RFS-FRRF, any United States importer shall have an independent third party do all the following:

(i) Determine the volume of renewable fuel, standardized per ยง 80.1426(f)(8), in the vessel.

(ii) Use the RIN-generating foreign producer's RFS-FRRF certification to determine the name and EPA-assigned registration number of the RIN-generating foreign producer that produced the RFS-FRRF.

(iii) Determine the name and country of registration of the vessel used to transport the RFS-FRRF to the United States.

(iv) Determine the date and time the vessel arrives at the United States port of entry.

(3) Where the importer is required to retire RINs under paragraph (e)(2) of this section, the importer must report the retired RINs in the applicable reports under ยง 80.1451.

(4) Any importer shall submit reports within 30 days following the date any vessel transporting RFS-FRRF arrives at the United States port of entry to all the following:

(i) The Administrator, containing the information determined under paragraph (k)(2) of this section.

(ii) The RIN-generating foreign producer, containing the information determined under paragraph (k)(2)(i) of this section, and including identification of the port at which the product was offloaded, and any RINs retired under paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(5) Any United States importer shall meet all other requirements of this subpart for any imported renewable fuel that is not classified as RFS-FRRF under paragraph (k)(1) of this section.
