
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT AND ASSESSING THE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF EPA ACTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for EPA Actions Subject to NEPA
###### ยง 6.101 Applicability.

(a) Subparts A through C of this part apply to the proposed actions of EPA that are subject to NEPA. EPA actions subject to NEPA include the award of wastewater treatment construction grants under Title II of the Clean Water Act, EPA's issuance of new source National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits under section 402 of the Clean Water Act, certain research and development projects, development and issuance of regulations, EPA actions involving renovations or new construction of facilities, and certain grants awarded for projects authorized by Congress through the Agency's annual Appropriations Act.

(b) Subparts A through C of this part do not apply to EPA actions for which NEPA review is not required. EPA actions under the Clean Water Act, except those identified in ยง 6.101(a), and EPA actions under the Clean Air Act are statutorily exempt from NEPA. Additionally, the courts have determined that certain EPA actions for which analyses that have been conducted under another statute are functionally equivalent with NEPA.

(c) The appropriate Responsible Official will undertake certain EPA actions required by the provisions of subparts A through C of this part.

(d) Certain procedures in subparts A through C of this part apply to the responsibilities of the NEPA Official.

(e) Certain procedures in subparts A through C of this part apply to applicants who are required to provide environmental information to EPA.
