
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1467 What are the additional requirements under this subpart for a foreign RIN owner?
####### Bond posting.

(e)Any foreign entity shall meet the requirements of this paragraph (e) as a condition to approval as a foreign RIN owner under this subpart.

(1) The foreign entity shall post a bond of the amount calculated using the following equation:

(2) Bonds shall be posted by any of the following methods:

(i) Paying the amount of the bond to the Treasurer of the United States.

(ii) Obtaining a bond in the proper amount from a third party surety agent that is payable to satisfy United States administrative or judicial judgments against the foreign RIN owner, provided EPA agrees in advance as to the third party and the nature of the surety agreement.

(3) All the following shall apply to bonds posted under this paragraph (e); bonds shall:

(i) Be used to satisfy any judicial judgment that results from an administrative or judicial enforcement action for conduct in violation of this subpart, including where such conduct violates the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 1001) and section 113(c)(2) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7413).

(ii) Be provided by a corporate surety that is listed in the United States Department of Treasury Circular 570 "Companies Holding Certificates of Authority as Acceptable Sureties on Federal Bonds".

(iii) Include a commitment that the bond will remain in effect for at least five years following the end of latest reporting period in which the foreign RIN owner obtains, sells, transfers, or holds RINs.

(4) On any occasion a foreign RIN owner bond is used to satisfy any judgment, the foreign RIN owner shall increase the bond to cover the amount used within 90 days of the date the bond is used.
