
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1469 Requirements for Quality Assurance Plans.
####### Feedstock-related components.

(1)(i) Components requiring ongoing monitoring:

(A) Feedstocks are renewable biomass as defined in § 80.1401.

(B) Feedstocks are being separated according to a separation plan, if applicable under § 80.1426(f)(5)(ii).

(C) Crop and crop residue feedstocks meet land use restrictions, or alternatively the aggregate compliance provisions of § 80.1454(g).

(D) If applicable, verify that feedstocks with additional recordkeeping requirements meet requirements of § 80.1454(d).

(E) Feedstocks are valid for the D code being used, and are consistent with information recorded in EMTS.

(F) Feedstock is consistent with production process and D code being used as permitted under Table 1 to § 80.1426 or a petition approved through § 80.1416.

(G) Feedstock is not renewable fuel for which RINs were previously generated.

(ii) Components requiring quarterly monitoring:

(A) Separated food waste or separated yard waste plan is accepted and up to date, if applicable under § 80.1426(f)(5)(ii).

(B) Separated municipal solid waste plan is approved and up to date, if applicable under § 80.1426(f)(5)(ii).

(C) Contracts or agreements for feedstock acquisition are sufficient for facility production.

(D) Feedstock processing and storage equipment are sufficient and are consistent with the most recent engineering review under § 80.1450(b)(2).

(E) If applicable, accuracy of feedstock energy FE calculation factors related to feedstocks, including average moisture content m and feedstock energy content E.
