
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1469 Requirements for Quality Assurance Plans.
####### Feedstock-related components.

(1)(i) Feedstocks are renewable biomass as defined in § 80.1401.

(ii) If applicable, plans under § 80.1426(f)(5)(ii) are accepted and up to date.

(iii) If applicable, separated municipal solid waste plan under § 80.1426(f)(5) is approved and current.

(iv) Feedstocks are being separated according to a separation plan, if applicable under § 80.1426(f)(5).

(v) Crop and crop residue feedstocks meet land use restrictions, or alternatively the aggregate compliance provisions of § 80.1454(g).

(vi) Feedstock(s) and biointermediate(s) are consistent with production process and D code being used as permitted under the approved pathway and is consistent with information recorded in EMTS.

(vii) Feedstock(s) and biointermediate(s) are not renewable fuel for which RINs were previously generated unless the RINs were generated under § 80.1426(c)(6). For renewable fuels that have RINs generated under § 80.1426(c)(6), verify that renewable fuels used as a feedstock meet all applicable requirements of this paragraph (c)(1).

(viii) If applicable, accuracy of feedstock energy FE calculation factors related to feedstocks, including average moisture content m and feedstock energy content E.
