
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1470 RIN replacement mechanisms for Option A independent third party auditors.
####### Requirements.

(b)An independent third party auditor must establish or participate in the establishment of a RIN replacement mechanism. The RIN replacement mechanism must fulfill, at a minimum, all the following conditions:

(1) The RIN replacement mechanism must be capable of fulfilling the independent third party auditor's RIN replacement responsibility, as described in ยง 80.1474(b)(5)(i).

(2) The independent third party auditor is responsible for calculating and maintaining the minimum coverage afforded by the RIN replacement mechanism at all times.

(3) RINs held by the RIN replacement mechanism (if any) must be identified in a unique EMTS account designated for the exclusive use of the replacement mechanism.

(4) Distribution and removal of RINs from the replacement mechanism may not be under the sole operational control of the third-party auditor.

(5) An originally signed duplicate of the agreement or contract establishing the RIN replacement mechanism must be submitted to the EPA by the independent third party auditor in accordance with ยง 80.1450(g)(7).

(6) Any substantive change to the agreement establishing the RIN replacement mechanism must be submitted to the EPA within 30 days of the change.
