
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1472 Requirements for quality assurance audits.
####### QAP.

(3)(i) As applicable, the independent third-party auditor shall conduct an on-site visit at the renewable fuel production facility, foreign ethanol production facility, or biointermediate production facility:

(A) At least two times per calendar year; or

(B) In the event an auditor uses a remote monitoring system approved by the EPA, at least one time per calendar year.

(ii) An on-site visit specified in paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section shall occur no more than:

(A) 200 days after the previous on-site visit. The 200-day period shall start the day after the previous on-site visit ends; or

(B) 380 days after the previous on-site visit if a previously approved (by EPA) remote monitoring system is in place at the renewable fuel production facility, foreign ethanol production facility, or biointermediate production facility, as applicable. The 380-day period shall start the day after the previous on-site visit ends.

(iii) An on-site visit shall include verification of all QAP elements that require inspection or evaluation of the physical attributes of the renewable fuel production facility, foreign ethanol production facility, or biointermediate production facility, as applicable.

(iv) The on-site visit shall be overseen by a professional engineer, as specified in ยง 80.1450(b)(2)(i)(A) and (b)(2)(i)(B).
