
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1471 Requirements for QAP auditors.

(a) QAP audits conducted pursuant to § 80.1472 must be conducted by an independent third-party auditor.

(b) To be considered an independent third-party auditor under paragraph (a) of this section:

(1) The independent third-party auditor and its contractors and subcontractors must not be owned or operated by the renewable fuel producer, foreign renewable fuel producer, or biointermediate producer or any subsidiary or employee of the renewable fuel producer, foreign ethanol producer, or biointermediate producer.

(2) The independent third-party auditor and its contractors and subcontractors shall not be owned or operated by an obligated party or any subsidiary or employee of an obligated party as defined in § 80.1406.

(3) The independent third-party auditor shall not own, buy, sell, or otherwise trade RINs unless required to maintain a financial assurance mechanism for a QAP implemented under QAP Option A pursuant to § 80.1469(a) during the interim period or to replace an invalid RIN pursuant to § 80.1474.

(4) The independent third-party auditor and its contractors and subcontractors must be free from any interest or the appearance of any interest in the renewable fuel producer, foreign renewable fuel producer, or biointermediate producer's business.

(5) The renewable fuel producer, foreign renewable fuel producer, or biointermediate producer must be free from any interest or the appearance of any interest in the third-party auditor's business and the businesses of third-party auditor's contractors and subcontractors.

(6) The independent third-party auditor and its contractors and subcontractors must not have performed an attest engagement under § 80.1464 for the renewable fuel producer, foreign renewable fuel producer, or biointermediate producer in the same calendar year as a QAP audit conducted pursuant to § 80.1472.

(7) The independent third-party auditor and its contractors and subcontractors must not be debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment pursuant to the Government-wide Debarment and Suspension regulations, 40 CFR part 32, or the Debarment, Suspension and Ineligibility provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4.
