
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1471 Requirements for QAP auditors.
####### i.e.,

(c) Independent third-party auditors must maintain professional liability insurance. Independent third-party auditors must use insurance providers that possess a financial strength rating in the top four categories from Standard & Poor's or Moody's (AAA, AA, A, or BBB for Standard & Poor's and Aaa, Aa, A, or Baa for Moody's), or a comparable rating acceptable to EPA. Independent third-party auditors must disclose the level of professional liability insurance they possess when entering into contracts to provide RIN verification services.

(d)(1) In the event that an independent third-party auditor identifies a RIN that may have been invalidly generated, the independent third-party auditor shall, within five business days, send notification of the potentially invalidly generated RIN to the EPA and the renewable fuel producer that generated the RIN.

(2) The independent third-party auditor shall provide the notification required under paragraph (d)(1) of this section in writing (which includes email or facsimile) and, if requested by the party being notified of a potentially invalidly generated RIN, by telephone.

(e) The independent third-party auditor shall identify RINs generated from a renewable fuel producer or foreign renewable fuel producer as having been verified under a QAP.

(1) For RINs verified under QAP Option A pursuant to § 80.1469(a) during the interim period, RINs shall be designated as A-RINs.

(2) For RINs verified under QAP Option B pursuant to § 80.1469(b), during the interim period, RINs shall be designated as B-RINs.

(3) For RINs verified under a QAP pursuant to § 80.1469(c), RINs shall be designated as Q-RINs and shall be identified as having been verified under a QAP in EMTS.

(4) The independent third-party auditor shall not identify RINs generated from a renewable fuel producer or foreign renewable fuel producer as having been verified under a QAP if a revised QAP must be submitted to and approved by the EPA under § 80.1469(f).

(5) The independent third-party auditor must not identify RINs generated for renewable fuel produced using a biointermediate as having been verified under a QAP unless the biointermediate used to produce the renewable fuel was verified under an approved QAP pursuant to § 80.1477.

(f)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, auditors may only verify RINs that have been generated after the audit required under § 80.1472 has been completed. Auditors may only verify biointermediates that were produced after the audit required under § 80.1472 has been completed. Auditors must only verify RINs generated from renewable fuels produced from biointermediates after the audit required under § 80.1472 has been completed for both the biointermediate production facility and the renewable fuel production facility.

(i) For A-RINs, ongoing monitoring must have been initiated.

(ii) Verification of RINs or biointermediates may continue for no more than 200 days following an on-site visit or 380 days after an on-site visit if a previously the EPA-approved remote monitoring system is in place at the renewable fuel production facility.

(2) Auditors may verify RINs that were generated before the audit required under § 80.1472 has been completed, under the following conditions:

(i) The RINs in question were generated during the interim period.

(ii) The audit is completed during the interim period.

(iii) The audit is performed in accordance with the elements specified in a QAP that has been approved by the EPA per § 80.1469(e).

(iv) The audit requirements of § 80.1472 are met for every batch of renewable fuel for which RINs were generated and are being verified.

(v) The auditor may not perform more than one audit under this subparagraph for any single RIN generator.

(g) The independent third-party auditor must permit any representative of the EPA to monitor at any time the implementation of QAPs and renewable fuel and biointermediate production facility audits.

(h) Any person who fails to meet a requirement under of this section shall be subject to a separate violation pursuant to § 80.1460(f).
