
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### § 80.1473 Affirmative defenses.
####### Asserting an affirmative defense for invalid B-RINs verified during the interim period.

(d)To establish an affirmative defense to a violation of § 80.1460(b)(2) or (c)(1) involving invalid B-RINs, the person must meet the notification requirements of paragraph (f) of this section and prove by a preponderance of evidence all of the following:

(1) The RIN in question was verified through a quality assurance audit pursuant to § 80.1472 using an approved Option B QAP as defined in § 80.1469(b).

(2) The person did not know or have reason to know that the RINs were invalidly generated at the time of transfer or use for compliance, unless the RIN generator replaced the RIN pursuant to § 80.1474.

(3) If the person self-identified the RIN as having been invalidly generated, the person notified the EPA within five business days of discovering the invalidity.

(4) The person did not cause the invalidity.

(5) The person did not have a financial interest in the company that generated the invalid RIN.

(6) If the person used the invalid B-RIN for compliance, the person adjusted its records, reports, and compliance calculations in which the invalid B-RIN was used as required by § 80.1431, unless the RIN generator replaced the RIN pursuant to § 80.1474.
