
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1475 What are the additional attest engagement requirements for parties that redesignate certified NTDF as MVNRLM diesel fuel?
####### Listing of tenders.

(d)Auditors must perform the following:

(1) For each of the volumes listed in paragraphs (c)(1)(iii) through (vi) of this section, obtain a separate listing of all tenders from the refiner or importer for the reporting period. Each listing should provide for each tender the volume shipped and other information as needed to distinguish tenders.

(2) Foot to the volume totals per the listings.

(3) Agree the volume totals on the listing to the tender volume total in the inventory reconciliation analysis obtained in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) For each of the listings select a representative sample of the tenders in accordance with the guidelines in 40 CFR 1090.1805, and for each tender selected perform the following:

(i) Obtain product transfer documents associated with the tender and agree the volume on the tender listing to the volume on the product transfer documents.

(ii) Note whether the product transfer documents include the information required by 40 CFR 1090.1115 and, for tenders involving the transfer of certified NTDF, the information required by ยง 80.1453(e).

(5) Report as a finding any discrepancies.
