
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1475 What are the additional attest engagement requirements for parties that redesignate certified NTDF as MVNRLM diesel fuel?
####### Inventory reconciliation analysis.

(c)Auditors must perform the following:

(1) Obtain an inventory reconciliation analysis for the facility for the reporting period for each of the following and perform the procedures at paragraphs (c)(2) through (4) of this section separately for each of the following products:

(i) The volume of certified NTDF that was redesignated as MVNRLM diesel fuel.

(ii) The volume of MVNRLM diesel fuel that was redesignated to a non-transportation use.

(iii) The volume of MVNRLM diesel fuel owned when the fuel was received at the facility and acquired at the facility during the compliance period.

(iv) The volume of MVNRLM diesel fuel owned and sold or transferred to other parties at the facility during the compliance period.

(v) The volume of certified NTDF received.

(vi) The volume of certified NTDF delivered.

(2) Foot and crossfoot the volume totals reflected in the analysis.

(3) Agree the beginning and ending inventory amounts in the analysis to the facility's inventory records.

(4) If the obligated party delivered more MVNRLM diesel fuel than received, agree the annual balance with the reports obtained at ยง 80.1475(b)(1) and verify whether the obligated party incurred and satisfied its RVO under ยง 80.1408(a)(2)(i).

(5) Report as a finding each of the volume totals along with any discrepancies.
