
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1478 Requirements for foreign biointermediate producers and importers.
####### Foreign biointermediate producer commitments.

(c)Any foreign biointermediate producer must commit to the following provisions as a condition of being registered as a foreign biointermediate producer under this subpart:

(1) Any EPA inspector or auditor must be given full, complete, and immediate access to conduct inspections and audits of the foreign biointermediate producer facility.

(i) Inspections and audits may be either announced in advance by EPA, or unannounced.

(ii) Access will be provided to any location where:

(A) Biointermediate is produced.

(B) Documents related to foreign biointermediate producer operations are kept.

(C) Biointermediate is stored or transported between the foreign biointermediate producer and the renewable fuel producer, including storage tanks, vessels, and pipelines.

(iii) EPA inspectors and auditors may be EPA employees or contractors to EPA.

(iv) Any documents requested that are related to matters covered by inspections and audits must be provided to an EPA inspector or auditor on request.

(v) Inspections and audits may include review and copying of any documents related to the following:

(A) The volume of biointermediate produced or delivered to renewable fuel production facilities.

(B) Transfers of title or custody to the biointermediate.

(C) Work performed and reports prepared by independent third parties and by independent auditors under the requirements of this section, including work papers.

(vi) Inspections and audits by EPA may include interviewing employees.

(vii) Any employee of the foreign biointermediate producer must be made available for interview by the EPA inspector or auditor, on request, within a reasonable time period.

(viii) English language translations of any documents must be provided to an EPA inspector or auditor, on request, within 10 business days.

(ix) English language interpreters must be provided to accompany EPA inspectors and auditors, on request.

(2) An agent for service of process located in the District of Columbia must be named, and service on this agent constitutes service on the foreign biointermediate producer or any employee of the foreign biointermediate producer for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this subpart.

(3) The forum for any civil or criminal enforcement action related to the provisions of this section for violations of the Clean Air Act or regulations in this title promulgated thereunder must be governed by the Clean Air Act, including the EPA administrative forum where allowed under the Clean Air Act.

(4) United States substantive and procedural laws apply to any civil or criminal enforcement action against the foreign biointermediate producer or any employee of the foreign biointermediate producer related to the provisions of this section.

(5) Applying to be an approved foreign biointermediate producer under this section, or producing or exporting biointermediate under such approval, and all other actions to comply with the requirements of this subpart relating to such approval constitute actions or activities covered by and within the meaning of the provisions of 28 U.S.C. 1605(a)(2), but solely with respect to actions instituted against the foreign biointermediate producer, its agents and employees in any court or other tribunal in the United States for conduct that violates the requirements applicable to the foreign biointermediate producer under this subpart, including conduct that violates the False Statements Accountability Act of 1996 (18 U.S.C. 1001) and section 113(c)(2) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7413).

(6) The foreign biointermediate producer, or its agents or employees, will not seek to detain or to impose civil or criminal remedies against EPA inspectors or auditors for actions performed within the scope of EPA employment or contract related to the provisions of this section.

(7) The commitment required by this paragraph (c) must be signed by the owner or president of the foreign biointermediate producer company.

(8) In any case where the biointermediate produced at a foreign biointermediate production facility is stored or transported by another company between the production facility and the vessel that transports the biointermediate to the United States, the foreign biointermediate producer must obtain from each such other company a commitment that meets the requirements specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (7) of this section, and these commitments must be included in the foreign biointermediate producer's application to be an approved foreign biointermediate producer under this subpart.
