
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 80 - REGULATION OF FUELS AND FUEL ADDITIVES
##### Subpart M - Renewable Fuel Standard
###### ยง 80.1478 Requirements for foreign biointermediate producers and importers.
####### Requirements for biointermediate importers.

(h)Any biointermediate importer must meet all the following requirements:

(1) For each biointermediate batch, any biointermediate importer must have an independent third party do all the following:

(i) Determine the volume of biointermediate in the truck, railcar, vessel, or other shipping container.

(ii) Determine the name and EPA-assigned registration number of the foreign biointermediate producer that produced the biointermediate.

(iii) Determine the name and country of registration of the truck, railcar, vessel, or other shipping container used to transport the biointermediate to the United States.

(iv) Determine the date and time the truck, railcar, vessel, or other shipping container arrives at the United States port of entry.

(2) Any biointermediate importer must submit documentation of the information determined under paragraph (h)(1) of this section within 30 days following the date any truck, railcar, vessel, or other shipping container transporting biointermediate arrives at the United States port of entry to all the following:

(i) The foreign biointermediate producer.

(ii) The renewable fuel producer.

(3) The biointermediate importer and the independent third party must keep records of the audits and reports required under paragraphs (h)(1) and (2) of this section for five years from the date of creation.
