
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix D to Part 50 - Reference Measurement Principle and Calibration Procedure for the Measurement of Ozone in the Atmosphere (Chemiluminescence Method)
###### Assay of O,concentrations.

4.5.3The operator must carry out the following steps to properly assay Oconcentrations.

4.5.3.1 Allow the photometer system to warm up and stabilize.

4.5.3.2 Verify that the flow rate through the photometer absorption cell, F, allows the cell to be flushed in a reasonably short period of time (2 liter/min is a typical flow). The precision of the measurements is inversely related to the time required for flushing, since the photometer drift error increases with time.

4.5.3.3 Ensure that the flow rate into the output manifold is at least 1 liter/min greater than the total flow rate required by the photometer and any other flow demand connected to the manifold.

4.5.3.4 Ensure that the flow rate of zero air, Fz, is at least 1 liter/min greater than the flow rate required by the photometer.

4.5.3.5 With zero air flowing in the output manifold, actuate the two-way valve to allow the photometer to sample first the manifold zero air, then Fz. The two photometer readings must be equal (I = I).

4.5.3.6 Adjust the Ogenerator to produce an Oconcentration as needed.

4.5.3.7 Actuate the two-way valve to allow the photometer to sample zero air until the absorption cell is thoroughly flushed and record the stable measured value of Io.

4.5.3.8 Actuate the two-way valve to allow the photometer to sample the Oconcentration until the absorption cell is thoroughly flushed and record the stable measured value of I.

4.5.3.9 Record the temperature and pressure of the sample in the photometer absorption cell. (See Reference 13 for guidance.)

4.5.3.10 Calculate the Oconcentration from equation 4. An average of several determinations will provide better precision.

4.5.3.11 Obtain additional Oconcentration standards as necessary by repeating steps 4.5.3.6 to 4.5.3.10 or by Option 1.
