
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix D to Part 50 - Reference Measurement Principle and Calibration Procedure for the Measurement of Ozone in the Atmosphere (Chemiluminescence Method)
###### Calibration of ozone analyzers.

4.5.5Ozone analyzers must be calibrated as follows, using Ostandards obtained directly according to section 4.5.3 or by means of a certified transfer standard.

4.5.5.1 Allow sufficient time for the Oanalyzer and the photometer or transfer standard to warm-up and stabilize.

4.5.5.2 Allow the Oanalyzer to sample zero air until a stable response is obtained and then adjust the Oanalyzer's zero control. Offsetting the analyzer's zero adjustment to +5% of scale is recommended to facilitate observing negative zero drift (if any). Record the stable zero air response as "Z".

4.5.5.3 Generate an Oconcentration standard of approximately 80% of the desired upper range limit (URL) of the Oanalyzer. Allow the Oanalyzer to sample this Oconcentration standard until a stable response is obtained.

4.5.5.4 Adjust the Oanalyzer's span control to obtain the desired response equivalent to the calculated standard concentration. Record the Oconcentration and the corresponding analyzer response. If substantial adjustment of the span control is necessary, recheck the zero and span adjustments by repeating steps 4.5.5.2 to 4.5.5.4.

4.5.5.5 Generate additional Oconcentration standards (a minimum of 5 are recommended) over the calibration scale of the Oanalyzer by adjusting the Osource or by Option 1. For each Oconcentration standard, record the Oconcentration and the corresponding analyzer response.

4.5.5.6 Plot the Oanalyzer responses (vertical or Y-axis) versus the corresponding Ostandard concentrations (horizontal or X-axis). Compute the linear regression slope and intercept and plot the regression line to verify that no point deviates from this line by more than 2 percent of the maximum concentration tested.
