
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 81 - DESIGNATION OF AREAS FOR AIR QUALITY PLANNING PURPOSES
##### Subpart C - Section 107 Attainment Status Designations
###### ยง 81.300 Scope.

(a) Attainment status designations as approved or designated by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) pursuant to section 107 of the CAA are listed in this subpart. Area designations are subject to revision whenever sufficient data become available to warrant a redesignation. Both the state and EPA can initiate changes to these designations, but any state redesignation request must be submitted to EPA for concurrence. The EPA has replaced the national ambient air quality standards for particulate matter measured as total suspended particulate with standards measured as particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 10 micrometers (PM-10). Accordingly, area designations for PM-10 are included in the lists in subpart C of this part. However, the TSP area designations will also remain in effect until the Administrator determines that the designations are no longer necessary for implementing the maximum allowable increases in concentrations of particulate matter pursuant to section 163(b) of the CAA, as explained in paragraph (b) of this section. The EPA has also added national ambient air quality standards for fine particulate matter measured as particulate matter with an aerodynamic diameter less than or equal to a nominal 2.5 micrometers (PM). Accordingly, area designations for PMare included in the lists in subpart C of this part.

(b) Designated areas which are listed below as attainment ("Better than national standards") or unclassifiable ("Cannot be classified") for total suspended particulate (TSP), sulfur dioxide (SO), and nitrogen dioxide (NO), represent potential baseline areas or portions of baseline areas which are used in determining compliance with maximum allowable increases (increments) in concentrations of the respective pollutants for the prevention of significant deterioration of air quality (PSD). With respect to areas identified as "Rest of State" it should be assumed that such reference comprises a single area designation for PSD baseline area purposes. However, for PM-10, the use of the term "Rest of State" is an interim measure to designate as unclassifiable all locations not originally designated nonattainment for PM-10 in accordance with section 107(d)(4)(B) of the Act.

(c) For PM-10 areas designated nonattainment, pursuant to section 107(d)(4)(b) by operation of law upon enactment of the 1990 Amendments to the Act, the boundaries are more fully described as follows:

(1) For cities and towns, the boundary of the nonattainment area is defined by the municipal boundary limits as of November 15, 1990, the date the 1990 Amendments were signed into law, except for areas which were formerly categorized as "Group I areas", in which case the nonattainment area is defined by the municipal boundary limits as of October 31, 1990.

(2) Similarly, for planning areas, air quality maintenance areas, air basins, and urban growth boundaries the nonattainment area is defined by the entire planning area, air quality maintenance area, air basin, or urban growth boundary as of November 15, 1990, except for areas which were formerly "Group I", in which case the boundary is defined by the entire planning area, air quality maintenance area, air basin, or urban growth boundary as of October 31, 1990. The foregoing is true except to the extent the planning area, air quality maintenance area, air basin, or urban growth boundary is further defined, e.g., by township, range and/or section. Such geographical descriptors remain a fixed part of the nonattainment boundaries irrespective of whether they are included in the planning area, air quality maintenance area, air basin, or urban growth boundary.

(3) The boundaries of PM-10 areas subsequently redesignated pursuant to section 107(d)(3) of the Act will be defined by the city, town, planning area, air quality maintenance area, air basin, or urban growth boundary in effect the date the designation is promulgated.

(d) For ozone and carbon monoxide (CO) areas the effective date(s) of air quality area designations and classifications are described as follows:

(1) For the portions of ozone and CO nonattainment areas that were designated nonattainment prior to the date of enactment of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990 (preenactment), the effective date is November 15, 1990.

(2) For the portions of nonattainment areas that were designated attainment prior to November 15, 1990, and included as part of an area designated nonattainment prior to November 15, 1990, the effective date of the designation to nonattainment is November 15, 1990 for:

(i) Purposes of determining whether the portion of the nonattainment area is eligible for the 5-percent classification adjustment under section 181(a)(4) (ozone) or section 186(a)(3) (CO);

(ii) Triggering the process for determining the C/MSA boundary adjustment under section 107(d)(4)(A)(iv)-(v);

(iii) Determining the scope of a "covered area" under section 211 (k)(10)(D) and opt-in under section 211 (k)(6) for the reformulated gasoline requirement and for purposes of determining the baseline of the reductions needed to meet the requirement to reduce volatile organic compounds by 15 percent under section 181 (b)(1). For all other purposes the effective designation date is January 6, 1992 (except for the Towns of Blooming Grove, Chester, Highlands, Monroe, Tuxedo, Warwick, and Woodbury in Orange County, NY, and for Putnam County, NY, for which the effective date is January 15, 1992, and for the remainder of Orange County, NY, for which the effective date is April 21, 1994).

(3) For nonattainment areas designated attainment preenactment, and not included as part of any nonattainment area that was designated nonattainment preenactment, the effective date for all purposes is the date of the designation.

(e) Provisions for Early Action Compact Areas with Deferred Effective Date of Nonattainment Designation.
