
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 81 - DESIGNATION OF AREAS FOR AIR QUALITY PLANNING PURPOSES
##### Subpart C - Section 107 Attainment Status Designations
###### ยง 81.300 Scope.
####### Requirements not met.

(ii)(A) If the Administrator determines that an area subject to a compact has not met the requirements in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section, the nonattainment designation will become effective June 15, 2004.

(B) Prior to expiration of the deferred effective date on April 15, 2008, if the Administrator determines that an area or the State subject to a compact has not met either requirement in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section, the nonattainment designation shall become effective as of the deferred effective date, unless EPA takes affirmative rulemaking action to further extend the deadline.

(C) If the Administrator determines that an area subject to a compact and/or State has not met any requirement in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv) through (vi) of this section, the nonattainment designation shall become effective as of the deferred effective date, unless EPA takes affirmative rulemaking action to further extend the deadline.

(D) Not later than 1 year after the effective date of the nonattainment designation, the State shall submit to the Administrator a revised attainment demonstration SIP.

(iii) All Requirements Met. If the Administrator determines that an area subject to a compact has met all of the requirements under subparagraph (e)(2) of this section-

(A) The Administrator shall designate the area as attainment under section 107(d)(1)(B) of the Clean Air Act; and

(B) The designation shall become effective no later than April 15, 2008.
