
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### § 82.4 Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.

(a)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce, at any time in any control period, (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of unexpended production allowances or unexpended Article 5 allowances for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (a)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(b)(1) Effective January 1, 1996, for any Class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005 for any Class I, Group VI controlled substances, and effective August 18, 2003, for any Class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may produce, at any time in any control period (except that are transformed or destroyed domestically or by a person of another Party) in excess of the amount of conferred unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of the amount of unexpended critical use allowances, or in excess of the amount of unexpended Article 5 allowances as allocated under § 82.9 and § 82.11, as may be modified under § 82.12 (transfer of allowances) for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2005, production of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (b)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart, or it is solely for export to satisfy critical uses authorized by the Parties for that control period.

(c)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, no person may produce or (except for transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) import, at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess production or importation (other than transhipments, heels or used controlled substances) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 1, 2003, production and import of class I, Group VI controlled substances is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (c)(1) of this section if it is solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(d) Effective January 1, 1996, for any class I, Group I, Group II, Group III, Group IV, Group V, or Group VII controlled substances, and effective January 1, 2005, for any class I, Group VI controlled substance, and effective August 18, 2003, for any class I, Group VIII controlled substance, no person may import (except for transhipments or heels), at any time in any control period, (except for controlled substances that are transformed or destroyed) in excess of the amount of unexpended essential use allowances or exemptions, or in excess of unexpended critical use allowances, for that substance held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation (other than transhipments or heels) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the general laboratory exemption in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets.

(e) Effective January 1, 1996, no person may place an order by conferring essential-use allowances for the production of the class I controlled substance, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Effective January 1, 1996, no person may import a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, in excess of the amount of unexpended essential-use allowances, held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. No person may import or place an order for the production of a class I controlled substance with essential-use allowances, at any time in any control period, other than for the class I controlled substance(s) for which they received essential-use allowances under paragraph (u) of this section. Every kilogram of excess production ordered in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances conferred to the producer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Every kilogram of excess import in excess of the unexpended essential-use allowances held at that time constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Effective January 1, 1996, the U.S. total production and importation of a class I controlled substance (except Group VI) as allocated under this section for essential-use allowances and exemptions, and as obtained under § 82.9 for destruction and transformation credits, may not, at any time, in any control period until January 1, 2000, exceed the percent limitation of baseline production in appendix H of this subpart, as set forth in the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990. No person shall cause or contribute to the U.S. exceedance of the national limit for that control period.

(h) No person may sell in the U.S. any Class I controlled substance produced explicitly for export to an Article 5 country.

(i) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a heel of any class I controlled substance that is greater than 10 percent of the volume of the container in excess of the amount of unexpended consumption allowances, or unexpended destruction and transformation credits held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time for that control period. Every kilogram of excess importation constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(j)(1) Effective January 1, 1995, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class I controlled substance, except for Group II used controlled substances shipped in aircraft halon bottles for hydrostatic testing, without having received a non-objection notice from the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3). A person who receives a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity, in kilograms, of the used controlled substance cited in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of importation of used controlled substance in excess of the quantity cited in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(2) and (3) constitutes a separate violation.

(2) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class I controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class I controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class I controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class I controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.13(g)(5) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(k)(1) Prior to January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, a person may not use production allowances to produce a quantity of a class I controlled substance unless that person holds under the authority of this subpart at the same time consumption allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances nor may a person use consumption allowances to produce a quantity of class I controlled substances unless the person holds under authority of this subpart at the same time production allowances sufficient to cover that quantity of class I controlled substances. However, prior to January 1, 1996, for all class I controlled substances, and prior to January 1, 2005, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, only consumption allowances are required to import, with the exception of transhipments, heels, and used controlled substances. Effective January 1, 1996, for all Groups of class I controlled substances, except Group VI, only essential use allowances or exemptions are required to import class I controlled substances, with the exception of transhipments, heels, used controlled substances, and essential use CFCs.

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (k)(1) of this section, effective January 1, 2003, for class I, Group VI controlled substances, consumption allowances are not required to import quantities solely for quarantine or preshipment applications as defined in this subpart.

(l) Every kilogram of a controlled substance, and every controlled product, imported or exported in contravention of this subpart constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. No person may:
