
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.4 Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.
####### i.e.

(2) Any person acquiring unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption granted in ยง 82.8 to this subpart for use in anything other than an essential-use (, for uses other than those specifically listed in paragraph (n)(1) of this section) is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substance produced or imported under the authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and used for a non-essential use is a separate violation of this subpart. Any person selling unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption for uses other than an essential-use is in violation of this subpart. Each kilogram of unused class I controlled substances produced or imported under authority of essential-use allowances or the essential-use exemption and sold for a use other than an essential-use is a separate violation of this subpart. It is a violation of this subpart to obtain unused class I controlled substances under the exemption for laboratory and analytical uses in excess of actual need and to recycle that material for sale into other markets.

(o) [Reserved]

(p) Critical Use Exemption: With respect to class I, Group VI substances (methyl bromide):

(1) No person shall sell critical use methyl bromide without first receiving a certification from the purchaser that the quantity purchased will be sold or used solely for an approved critical use. Every kilogram of critical use methyl bromide sold without first obtaining such certification constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) For approved critical users, each action associated with each 200 kilograms of critical use methyl bromide for the following subparagraphs constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(i) No person shall take possession of quantities of critical use methyl bromide or acquire fumigation services using quantities of critical use methyl bromide without first completing the appropriate certification in accordance with the requirements in ยง 82.13.

(ii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide may use such quantities for a use other than the specified critical use listed in column A and the specified location of use in column B of appendix L to this subpart.

(iii) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for pre-plant uses, may use such quantities for other than the pre-plant uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.

(iv) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide produced or imported with expended critical use allowances for post-harvest uses, may use such quantities for other than the post-harvest uses as specified in column A and column B of appendix L to this subpart.

(v) No person who uses critical use methyl bromide on a specific field or structure may concurrently or subsequently use non-critical use methyl bromide on the same field or structure for the same use (as defined in column A and column B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption.

(vi) No person who purchases critical use methyl bromide during the control period shall use that methyl bromide on a field or structure for which that person has used non-critical use methyl bromide for the same use (as defined in columns A and B of appendix L) in the same control period, excepting methyl bromide used under the quarantine and pre-shipment exemption, unless, subsequent to that person's use of the non-critical use methyl bromide, that person becomes subject to a prohibition on the use of methyl bromide alternatives due to the reaching of a local township limit described in appendix L of this part, or becomes an approved critical user as a result of rulemaking.

(q) Emergency use exemption. [Reserved]

(r) No person may sell or use methyl bromide produced or imported under the quarantine and preshipment exemption for any purpose other than for quarantine applications or preshipment applications as defined in ยง 82.3. Each kilogram of methyl bromide produced or imported under the authority of the quarantine and preshipment exemption and sold or used for a use other than quarantine or preshipment is a separate violation of this subpart.

(s) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class I substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (s) that is sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
