
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.4 Prohibitions for class I controlled substances.
####### http://ozone.unep.org/new_site/en/treaty_ratification_status.php

(6) Import or export any quantity of a controlled substance listed in class I, Group VIII, in appendix A to this subpart, from or to any foreign state not Party to the Beijing Amendment, unless that foreign state is complying with the Beijing Amendment (For ratification status, see:).

(m) Effective October 5, 1998, no person may export a controlled product to a Party listed in appendix J of this subpart in any control period after the control period in which EPA publishes a notice in thelisting that Party in appendix J of this subpart. EPA will publish a notice in thethat lists a Party in appendix J if the Party formally presents to the U.S. a government document through its embassy in the United States stating that it has established a ban on the import of controlled products and a ban on the manufacture of those same controlled products.

(n) No person may use class I controlled substances produced or imported under the essential use exemption for any purpose other than those set forth in this paragraph. Effective January 1, 1996, essential-use allowances are apportioned to a person under ยง 82.8(a) and (b) for the exempted production or importation of specified class I controlled substances solely for the purposes listed in paragraphs (n)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(1) Essential-uses for the production or importation of controlled substances as agreed to by the Parties to the Protocol and subject to the periodic revision of the Parties are:

(i) Metered dose inhalers (MDIs) for the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease that were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000.

(ii) Space Shuttle-solvents.

(iii) Essential laboratory and analytical uses (defined in appendix G of this subpart).
