
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.12 Transfers of allowances for class I controlled substances.
####### Inter-company transfers.

(a)(1) After January 1, 2002, any essential-use allowance holder (including those persons that hold essential-use allowances issued by a Party other than the United States) ("transferor") may transfer essential-use allowances for CFCs to a metered dose inhaler company solely for the manufacture of essential MDIs. After January 1, 2005, any critical use allowance holder ("transferor") may transfer critical use allowances to any other person ("transferee").

(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:

(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;

(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;

(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;

(D) The group of controlled substances to which the allowances being transferred pertains;

(E) The amount of allowances being transferred;

(F) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;

(G) The amount of unexpended allowances of the type and for the control period being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA; and

(H) The one percent offset applied to the unweighted amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's production or consumption allowance balance (except for trades from transformers and destroyers to producers or importers for the purpose of allowance reimbursement). In the case of transferring essential use allowances, the amount of one tenth of one percent of the amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance. In the case of transferring critical use allowances, the amount of one tenth of one percent of the amount traded will be deducted from the transferor's critical use allowance balance.

(I) The transferor must include a signed document from the transferee identifying the CFC MDI products that will be produced using the essential-use allowances.
