
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.9 Availability of production allowances in addition to baseline production allowances for class I controlled substances.
####### International transfer of essential-use CFCs.

(g)(1) For trades of essential-use CFCs where the transferee or the transferor is a person in another nation (Party), the persons involved in the transfer must submit the information requested in ยง 82.12(d)(2) and (d)(3), along with a signed document from the principal diplomatic representative in the Party's embassy in the United States stating that the appropriate authority within that nation has approved the transfer of the essential-use CFCs.

(2) If the transfer claim is complete, and EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans to produce MDIs that are not essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.
