
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.12 Transfers of allowances for class I controlled substances.
####### Transfers of essential-use CFCs.

(d)(1) Effective January 1, 2002, any metered dose inhaler company (transferor) may transfer essential-use CFCs to another metered dose inhaler company (transferee) provided that the Administrator approves the transfer.

(2) The transferee must submit a transfer claim to the Administrator for approval before the transfer can take place. The transfer claim must set forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee; and

(ii) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee; and

(iii) The amount of each controlled substance (CFC-11, CFC-12, or CFC-114) being transferred; and

(iv) The specific metered dose inhaler products (i.e. the MDI drug product or active moiety) that the transferee plans to produce with the transferred CFCs; and

(v) The country(ies) where the CFC metered dose inhalers produced with the transferred essential-use CFCs will be sold if other than in the United States; and

(vi) Certification that the essential-use CFCs will be used in the production of essential MDIs. If the MDIs are to be sold in the United States, the certification must state that MDIs produced with the transferred essential-use CFCs are listed as essential at 21 CFR 2.125, and were approved by the Food and Drug Administration before December 31, 2000. If the MDIs produced with the essential-use CFCs are to be sold outside the United States, the transferee must certify that the metered dose inhalers produced with the essential-use CFCs are considered essential by the importing country.

(3) The transferor must submit a letter stating that it concurs with the terms of the transfer as requested by the transferee.

(4) Once the transfer claim is complete, and if EPA does not object to the transfer, then EPA will issue letters to the transferor and the transferee within 10 business days indicating that the transfer may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transfer if the transfer request is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the transferee plans use the essential-use CFCs in anything other than essential MDIs. If EPA objects to the transfer, within EPA will issue letters to the transferor and transferee stating the basis for disallowing the transfer. The burden of proof is placed on the transferee to retain sufficient records to prove that the transferred essential-use CFCs are used only for production of essential MDIs. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferee did not use the essential-use CFCs for production of essential MDIs then the transferee is in violation of this subpart.
