
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### § 82.15 Prohibitions for class II controlled substances.
####### Import.

(b)(1) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may import class II controlled substances (other than transhipments, heels or used class II controlled substances) for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances , in excess of the quantity of unexpended consumption allowances, or conferred unexpended HCFC-141b exemption allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period, unless the substances are for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction, or unless they are produced using an exemption granted in paragraph (f) of this section. Every kilogram of excess import constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) Effective January 21, 2003, no person may import, at any time in any control period, a used class II controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a petition to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.24(c)(3) and (4). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of used class II controlled substances may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the used class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of used class II controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.24(c)(3) and (4) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(3) No person may import for purposes of destruction, at any time in any control period, a class II controlled substance for which EPA has apportioned baseline production and consumption allowances, without having submitted a certification of intent to import for destruction to the Administrator and received a non-objection notice in accordance with § 82.24(c)(6). A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of class II controlled substances for destruction may not transfer or confer the right to import and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. For imports intended to be destroyed in the United States, a person issued a non-objection notice must destroy the controlled substance within one year of the date stamped on the non-objection letter, may not transfer or confer the right to import, and may not import any more than the exact quantity (in kilograms) of the class II controlled substance stated in the non-objection notice. Every kilogram of import of class II controlled substance in excess of the quantity stated in the non-objection notice issued by the Administrator in accordance with § 82.24(c)(6) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
