
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### § 82.15 Prohibitions for class II controlled substances.
####### Introduction into interstate commerce or use.

(g)(1) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-141b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose except for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); for HCFC-141b exemption needs; as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(2)(i) Effective January 1, 2010, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-22 or HCFC-142b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2010; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) Introduction into interstate commerce and use of HCFC-22 is not subject to the prohibitions in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section if the HCFC-22 is for use in medical equipment prior to January 1, 2015; for use in thermostatic expansion valves prior to January 1, 2015; or for use as a refrigerant in appliances manufactured before January 1, 2012, provided that the components are manufactured prior to January 1, 2010, and are specified in a building permit or a contract dated before January 1, 2010, for use on a particular project.

(3) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-141b (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a), as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(4)(i) Effective January 1, 2015, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance not governed by paragraphs (g)(1) through (3) of this section (unless used, recovered and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020; for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; for exemptions permitted under paragraph (f) of this section; or for exemptions permitted under paragraph (g)(4)(ii) or (iii) of this section.

(ii) Effective January 1, 2015, use of HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb as a solvent (excluding use in manufacturing a product containing HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb) is not subject to the use prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the person using the HCFC-225ca or HCFC-225cb placed the controlled substance into inventory before January 1, 2015. This paragraph does not create an exemption to the prohibition on introduction into interstate commerce in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(iii) Effective January 1, 2015, use of HCFC-124 as a sterilant for the manufacture and testing of biological indicators is not subject to the use prohibition in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section if the person using the HCFC-124 placed the controlled substance into inventory before January 1, 2015. This paragraph does not create an exemption to the prohibition on introduction into interstate commerce in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(5)(i) Effective January 1, 2020, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use HCFC-123 or HCFC-124 (unless used, recovered and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for use as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020; for use as a fire suppression streaming agent listed as acceptable for use or acceptable subject to narrowed use limits for nonresidential applications in accordance with the regulations at subpart G of this part and only to the extent permitted under paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this section; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted under paragraph (f) of this section.

(ii) HCFC-123 that was produced or imported on or after January 1, 2020 may be used as a fire suppression streaming agent only to service equipment manufactured before January 1, 2020. HCFC-123 that was produced or imported prior to January 1, 2020 (or used, recovered and recycled) may be used as a fire suppression streaming agent in equipment manufactured before, on, or after January 1, 2020.

(iii) Notwithstanding the prohibition on use in paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section, the use of HCFC-123 as a refrigerant in equipment manufactured on or after January 1, 2020 but before January 1, 2021 is permitted if the conditions of this paragraph (g)(5)(iii) are met. The HCFC-123 must be in the possession of an entity that will complete the manufacture of the appliance and imported prior to January 1, 2020. The appliance components must be ready for shipment to a construction location prior to July 24, 2019 and be specified in a building permit or a contract dated before July 24, 2019 for use on a particular project. All HCFC-123 used to service such appliances on or after January 1, 2021 must be used, recovered, or recycled.

(6) Effective January 1, 2030, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction; for export to Article 5 Parties under § 82.18(a); as a transhipment or heel; or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(7) Effective January 1, 2040, no person may introduce into interstate commerce or use any class II controlled substance (unless used, recovered, and recycled) for any purpose other than for use in a process resulting in its transformation or its destruction, as a transhipment or heel, or for exemptions permitted in paragraph (f) of this section.

(8) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, any class II substance that they know, or have reason to know, was imported in violation of this section, except for such actions needed to re-export the controlled substance. Every kilogram of a controlled substance imported in contravention of this paragraph (g)(8) that is sold or distributed, or offered for sale or distribution, constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
