
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.23 Transfers of allowances of class II controlled substances.
####### i.e.,

(4) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the convertor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed (the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms)). EPA will take into account any previous transfers, and any production, imports (not including transshipments or used class II controlled substances), or exports (not including transhipments or used class II controlled substances) of class II controlled substances reported by the convertor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the convertor as follows:

(i) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the convertor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). When EPA issues a no objection notice, the transferor may proceed with the transfer. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(ii) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. The transferor may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(iii) The transferor may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity (in kilograms) to be converted plus 0.1 percent of that quantity (in kilograms). The transferor will be held liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances or credits to cover the claim.
