
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.23 Transfers of allowances of class II controlled substances.
####### Inter-company transfers.

(a)Effective January 1, 2003, a person ("transferor") may transfer to any other person ("transferee") any quantity of the transferor's class II consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances for the same type of allowance as follows:

(i) The transferor must submit to the Administrator a transfer claim setting forth the following:

(A) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;

(B) The name and telephone numbers of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;

(C) The type of allowances being transferred, including the names of the class II controlled substances for which allowances are to be transferred;

(D) The quantity (in kilograms) of allowances being transferred;

(E) The control period(s) for which the allowances are being transferred;

(F) [Reserved]

(G) For trades of consumption allowances, production allowances, export production allowances, or Article 5 allowances, the quantity of the 0.1 percent offset applied to the unweighted quantity traded that will be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance.

(ii) The Administrator will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the transferor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim on the date the transfer claim is processed. The transfer claim is the quantity (in kilograms) to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The Administrator will take into account any previous transfers, any production, and allowable imports and exports of class II controlled substances reported by the transferor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the Administrator will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:

(A) The Administrator will issue a notice indicating that EPA does not object to the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances, respectively, by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. The transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer when EPA issues a no objection notice. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(B) The Administrator will issue a notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, or that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination. Either party may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the Administrator within 10 working days after receipt of notification. The Administrator may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is taken by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(iii) The transferor and transferee may proceed with the transfer if the Administrator does not respond to a transfer claim within the three working days specified in paragraph (a)(1)(ii) of this section. In the case of transfers of production or consumption allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of export production allowances or Article 5 allowances, EPA will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus 0.1 percent of that quantity. If EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and/or the transferee, where applicable, will be held liable for any knowing violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.
