
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 82.24 Recordkeeping and reporting requirements for class II controlled substances.
####### Recordkeeping and reporting.

(a)Any person who produces, imports, exports, transforms, or destroys class II controlled substances must comply with the following recordkeeping and reporting requirements:

(1) Reports required by this section must be submitted to the Administrator within 45 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified. Starting May 18, 2020, reports that are available for submission through the Central Data Exchange must be submitted electronically through that tool.

(2) Revisions of reports that are required by this section must be mailed to the Administrator within 180 days of the end of the applicable reporting period, unless otherwise specified.

(3) Records and copies of reports required by this section must be retained for three years.

(4) Quantities of class II controlled substances must be stated in terms of kilograms in reports required by this section.

(5) Reports and records required by this section may be used for purposes of compliance determinations. These requirements are not intended as a limitation on the use of other evidence admissible under the Federal Rules of Evidence. Failure to provide the reports, petitions and records required by this section and to certify the accuracy of the information in the reports, petitions and records required by this section, will be considered a violation of this subpart. False statements made in reports, petitions and records will be considered violations of Section 113 of the Clean Air Act and under 18 U.S.C. 1001.
