
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### Appendix D to Subpart A of Part 82 - Harmonized Tariff Schedule Description of Products That May Contain Controlled Substances in Appendix A, Class I, Groups I and II

This appendix is based on information provided by the Ozone Secretariat of the United Nations Ozone Environment Programme.**The Appendix lists available U.S. harmonized tariff schedule codes identifying headings and subheadings for Annex D products that may contain controlled substances.

The Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States uses an enumeration system to identify products imported and exported to and from the U.S. This system relies on a four digit heading, a four digit subheading and additional two digit statistical suffix to characterize products. The United States uses the suffix for its own statistical records and analyses. This Appendix lists only headings and subheadings.

While some can be readily associated with harmonized system codes, many products cannot be tied to HS classifications unless their exact composition and the presentation are known. It should be noted that the specified HS classifications represent the most likely headings and subheadings which may contain substances controlled by the Montreal Protocol. The codes given should only be used as a starting point; further verfication is needed to ascertain whether or not the products actually contain controlled substances.

There are no separate code numbers for air conditioning units specially used in automobiles and trucks. Although a code has been proposed for car air conditioners, it is not yet officially listed in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule (see category 2). The following codes apply to the vehicles potentially containing air conditioning units.

Domestic and commercial air conditioning and refrigeration equipment fall primarily under headings 8415 and 8418.

An array of different products use controlled substances as aerosols and in aerosol applications. Not all aerosol applications use controlled substances, however. The codes given below represent the most likely classifications for products containing controlled substances. The product codes listed include ****:

These goods have to be classified according to their composition and presentation. For example, if the insulation materials are made of polyurethane, polystyrene, polyolefin and phenolic plastics, then they may be classified Chapter 39, for "Plastics and articles thereof". The exact description of the products at issue is necessary before a classification can be given. ******

According to the Explanatory Notes to the Harmonized Commodity Description and Coding System, "prepolymers are products which are characterized by some repetition of monomer units although they may contain unreacted monomers. Prepolymers are not normally used as such but are intended to be transformed into higher molecular weight polymers by further polymerization. Therefore the term does not cover finished products, such as di-isobutylenes or mixed polyethylene glycols with very low molecular weight. Examples are epoxides based with epichlorohydrin, and polymeric isocyanates."
