
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### § 82.36 Approved refrigerant handling equipment.

(a)(1) Refrigerant recycling equipment must be certified by the Administrator or an independent standards testing organization approved by the Administrator under § 82.38 to meet the following standard:

(2) Equipment that recovers and recycles CFC-12 refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in appendix A of this subpart (Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12, Extraction and Recycle Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems, and Standard of Purity for Use in Mobile Air Conditioning Systems).

(3) Equipment that recovers but does not recycle CFC-12 refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in appendix B of this subpart (Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12 and Extraction Equipment for Mobile Automotive Air-Conditioning Systems).

(4) Effective January 1, 2008, equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a refrigerant and equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a refrigerant and recharges systems with HFC-134a refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in Appendix C of this subpart based upon J2788-HFC-134a (R-134a) Recovery/Recycling Equipment and Recovery/Recycling/Recharging for Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems.

(5) Effective October 31, 2008, equipment that recovers but does not recycle HFC-134a refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in Appendix D of this subpart based upon J2810-HFC-134a (R-134a) Recovery Equipment Mobile Air-Conditioning Systems.

(6) Equipment that recovers and recycles both CFC-12 and HFC-134a using common circuitry must meet the standards set forth in appendix E of this subpart (Automotive Refrigerant Recycling Equipment Intended for Use with both CFC-12 and HFC-134a, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12, and Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of HFC-134a).

(7) Equipment that recovers but does not recycle refrigerants other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, and HFO-1234yf must meet the standards set forth in appendix F of this subpart (Recover-Only Equipment that Extracts a Single, Specific Refrigerant Other Than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf).

(8) Equipment that recovers and recycles HFO-1234yf refrigerant from MVACs and recharges MVAC systems with HFO-1234yf refrigerant must meet the standards set forth in SAE J2843 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.31).

(9) Equipment that recovers but does not recycle contaminated HFC-134a and/or HFO-1234yf refrigerant from MVACs must meet the standards set forth in SAE J2851 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.31).

(10) Equipment that recovers, recycles, and recharges both HFO-1234yf and R-134a from MVACs must meet the standards set forth in SAE J3030 (incorporated by reference, see § 82.31).

(b)(1) Refrigerant recycling equipment that has not been certified under paragraph (a) of this section shall be considered approved if it is substantially identical to the applicable equipment certified under paragraph (a) of this section, and:

(i) For equipment that recovers and recycles CFC-12 refrigerant, it was initially purchased before September 4, 1991;

(ii) For equipment that recovers but does not recycle CFC-12 refrigerant, it was initially purchased before April 22, 1992;

(iii) For equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a refrigerant, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996;

(iv) For equipment that recovers but does not recycle HFC-134a refrigerant, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996;

(v) For equipment that recovers but does not recycle any single, specific refrigerant other than CFC-12 or HFC-134a, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996; and

(vi) For equipment that recovers and recycles HFC-134a and CFC-12 refrigerant using common circuitry, it was initially purchased before March 6, 1996.

(2) Equipment manufacturers or owners may request a determination by the Administrator by submitting an application and supporting documents that indicate that the equipment is substantially identical to approved equipment to: MVACs Recycling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, Attn: Substantially Identical Equipment Review. Supporting documents must include process flow sheets, lists of components and any other information that would indicate that the equipment is capable of processing the refrigerant to the standards in appendix A, B, C, D, E or F of this subpart, as applicable. Authorized representatives of the Administrator may inspect equipment for which approval is being sought and request samples of refrigerant that has been extracted and/or recycled using the equipment. Equipment that fails to meet appropriate standards will not be considered approved.

(3) Refrigerant recycling equipment that recovers or recovers and recycles CFC-12 refrigerant and has not been certified under paragraph (a) or approved under paragraphs(b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section shall be considered approved for use with an MVAC-like appliance if it was manufactured or imported before November 15, 1993, and is capable of reducing the system pressure to 102 mm of mercury vacuum under the conditions set forth in appendix A of this subpart.

(c) The Administrator will maintain a list of approved equipment by manufacturer and model. Persons interested in obtaining a copy of the list should send written inquiries to the address in paragraph (b) of this section.
