
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### ยง 82.38 Approved independent standards testing organizations.

(a) Any independent standards testing organization may apply for approval by the Administrator to certify equipment as meeting the standards in ยง 82.36(a) and appendices A, B, C, D, E, and F to this subpart, as applicable. The application shall be sent to: MVACs Recycling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division (6205T), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460.

(b) Applications for approval must document the following:

(1) That the organization has the capacity to accurately test whether refrigerant recycling equipment complies with the applicable standards. In particular, applications must document:

(i) The equipment present at the organization that will be used for equipment testing;

(ii) The expertise in equipment testing and the technical experience of the organization's personnel;

(iii) Thorough knowledge of the standards as they appear in the applicable appendices of this subpart; and

(iv) The test procedures to be used to test equipment for compliance with applicable standards, and why such test procedures are appropriate for that purpose.

(2) That the organization has no conflict of interest and will receive no financial benefit based on the outcome of certification testing; and

(3) That the organization agrees to allow the Administrator access to verify the information contained in the application.

(c) If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator shall give written notice to the organization setting forth the basis for his or her determination.

(d) If at any time an approved independent standards testing organization is found to be conducting certification tests for the purposes of this subpart in a manner not consistent with the representations made in its application for approval under this section, the Administrator reserves the right to revoke approval.
