
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### ยง 82.42 Certification, recordkeeping and public notification requirements.
####### Recordkeeping requirements.

(b)(1) Any person who owns approved refrigerant recycling equipment certified under ยง 82.36(a)(2) must maintain records of the name and address of any facility to which refrigerant is sent.

(2) Any person who owns approved refrigerant recycling equipment must retain records demonstrating that all persons authorized to operate the equipment are currently certified under ยง 82.40.

(3) Any person who sells or distributes any class I or class II substance that is suitable for use as a refrigerant in a motor vehicle air conditioner and that is in a container of less than 20 pounds of such refrigerant must verify that the purchaser is properly trained and certified under ยง 82.40. The seller must have a reasonable basis for believing that the information presented by the purchaser is accurate. The only exception to these requirements is if the purchaser is purchasing the small containers for resale only. In this case, the seller must obtain a written statement from the purchaser that the containers are for resale only and indicate the purchasers name and business address. Records required under this paragraph must be retained for a period of three years.

(4) All records required to be maintained pursuant to this section must be kept for a minimum of three years unless otherwise indicated. Entities which service motor vehicle air conditioners for consideration must keep these records on-site.

(5) All entities which service motor vehicle air conditioners for consideration must allow an authorized representative of the Administrator entry onto their premises (upon presentation of his or her credentials) and give the authorized representative access to all records required to be maintained pursuant to this section.
