
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix A to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recycle/Recover Equipment
####### Noncondensable Gases (air):

3.3330 ppm by wright.

4.1 The equipment shall meet SAE J1990, which covers additional moisture, acid, and filter requirements.

4.2 The equipment shall have a label indicating that it is certified to meet this document.

Purity specification of recycled R-12 refrigerant supplied in containers from other recycle sources, for service of mobile air-conditioning systems, shall meet ARI Standard 700-88 (Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute).

This shall be done in accordance with SAE J1989.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

This information applies to refrigerant used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar CFC-12 systems. Systems used on mobile vehicles for refrigerated cargo that have hermetically sealed, rigid pipe are not covered in this document.

Due to the CFC's damaging effect on the ozone layer, recycle of CFC-12 (R-12) used in mobile air-conditioning systems is required to replace system venting during normal service operations. Establishing recycle specifications for R-12 will provide the same level of performance as new refrigerant.

Extensive field testing with the EPA and the auto industry indicates that R-12 can be reused, provided that it is cleaned to specifications in SAE J1991. The purpose of this document is to establish the specific minimum equipment specification required for recycle of R-12 that has been directly removed from mobile systems for reuse in mobile automotive air-conditioning systems.

The purpose of this document is to provide equipment specifications for CFC-12 (R-12) recycling equipment. This information applies to equipment used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar CFC-12 air-conditioning systems. Systems used on mobile vehicles for refrigerated cargo that have hermetically sealed systems are not covered in this document. The equipment in this document is intended for use with refrigerant that has been directly removed from, and intended to be returned to, a mobile air-conditioning system. Should other revisions due to operational or technical requirements occur, this document may be amended.

2.1 Applicable Documents:

2.1.1 SAE Publications-Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.

2.1.2 CGA Publications-Available from CGA, Crystal Gateway #1, Ste. 501, 1235 Jefferson Davis Hwy., Arlington, VA 22202

3.1 The equipment must be able to extract and process CFC-12 from mobile air-conditioning systems. The equipment shall process the contaminated R-12 samples as defined in 8.4 and shall clean the refrigerant to the level as defined in SAE J1991.

3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service environment and be capable of continuous operation in ambients from 10 to 49 &#xB0;C.

3.3 The equipment must be certified by Underwriters Laboratories or an equivalent certifying laboratory.

3.4 The equipment shall have a label "Design Certified by (Company Name) to Meet SAE J1991". The minimum letter size shall be bold type 3 mm in height.

4.1 Moisture and Acid-The equipment shall incorporate a desiccant package that must be replaced before saturated with moisture and whose mineral acid capacity is at least 5% by weight of total system dry desiccant.

4.1.1 The equipment shall be provided with a moisture detection device that will reliably indicate when moisture in the CFC-12 exceeds the allowable level and requires the filter/dryer replacement.

4.2 Filter-The equipment shall incorporate an in-line filter that will trap particulates of 15 µm or greater.

4.3 Noncondensable Gas.

4.3.1 The equipment shall either automatically purge noncondensables (NCGs) if the acceptable level is exceeded or incorporate a device to alert the operator that NCG level has been exceeded. NCG removal must be part of normal operation of the equipment and instructions must be provided to enable the task to be accomplished within 30 minutes.

4.3.2 Refrigerant loss from noncondensable gas purging during testing described in Section 8 shall not exceed five percent (5%) by weight of the total contaminated refrigerant removed from the test system.

4.3.3 Transfer of Recycled Refrigerant-Recycled refrigerant for recharging and transfer shall be taken from the liquid phase only.

5.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of R-12 material. Safety precautions or notices related to the safe operation of the equipment shall be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state "Caution-Should Be Operated By Qualified Personnel".

6.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.

6.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

7.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring recovery of the R-12 from the system being service, by reducing the system pressure below atmospheric to a minimum of 102 mm of mercury.

7.2 To prevent overcharge, the equipment must be equipped to protect the tank used to store the recycled refrigerant with a shutoff device and a mechanical pressure relief valve.

7.3 Portable refillable tanks or containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standards and be adaptable to existing refrigerant service and charging equipment.

7.4 During operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure the storage container, internal or external, liquid fill does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21.1 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) per DOT standards, CFR title 49, § 173.304 and American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

7.4.1 Additional Storage Tank Requirements.

7.4.1.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves, UL 1769.

7.4.1.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1-Cylinders for Compressed Gases, CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.

7.4.1.3 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. The marking shall be in letters at leastin high.

7.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 hose specification effective January 1, 1992.

7.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm (12 in) of the connection point to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment and the release of the refrigerant when being disconnected.

7.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed during the process, in 30 ml units. Refrigerant dissolves in lubricant sample. This creates the illusion that more lubricant has been recovered than actually has been. The equipment lubricant measuring system must take in account such dissolved refrigerant to prevent overcharging the vehicle system with lubricant. Note: Use only new lubricant to replace the amount removed during the recycle process. Used lubricant should be discarded per applicable federal, state, and local requirements.

7.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient of 10 to 49 &#xB0;C (50 to 120 &#xB0;F).

7.9 The equipment should be compatible with leak detection material that may be present in the mobile AC system.

This test procedure and the requirement are used for evaluation of the equipment for its ability to clean the contaminated R-12 refrigerant.

8.1 The equipment shall clean the contaminated R-12 refrigerant to the minimum purity level as defined in SAE J1991, when tested in accordance with the following conditions:

8.2 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

8.3 The equipment must be preconditioned with 13.6 kg (30 lb) of the standard contaminated R-12 at an ambient of 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg (2.5 lb) with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 min. The sample method fixture, defined in Fig. 1, shall be operated at 24 &#xB0;C (75 &#xB0;F).

8.4 Contaminated R-12 Samples.

8.4.1 Standard contaminated R-12 refrigerant shall consist of liquid R-12 with 100 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) and 45,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension nominal and 770 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air).

8.4.2 High moisture contaminated sample shall consist of R-12 vapor with 1,000 ppm (by weight) moisture.

8.4.3 High oil contaminated sample shall consist of R-12 with 200,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension viscosity nominal.

8.5 Test Cycle.

8.5.1 After preconditioning as stated in 8.3, the test cycle is started, processing the following contaminated samples through the equipment:

8.5.1.1 3013.6 kg (30 lb) of standard contaminated R-12.

8.5.1.2 1 kg (2.2 lb) of high oil contaminated R-12.

8.5.1.3 4.5 kg (10 lb) of standard contaminated R-12.

8.5.1.4 1 kg (2.2 lb) of high moisture contaminated R-12.

8.6 Equipment Operating Ambient.

8.6.1 The R-12 is to be cleaned to the minimum purity level, as defined in SAE J1991, with the equipment operating in a stable ambient of 10, 21, and 49 &#xB0;C (50, 70, and 120 &#xB0;F) and processing the samples as defined in 8.5.

8.7 Sample Analysis.

8.7.1 The processed contaminated sample shall be analyzed according to the following procedure.

8.8 Quantitative Determination of Moisture.

8.8.1 The recycled liquid phase sample of CFC-12 shall be analyzed for moisture content via Karl Fischer coulometer titration or an equivalent method. The Karl Fischer apparatus is an instrument for precise determination of small amounts of water dissolved in liquid and/or gas samples.

8.8.2 In conducting the test, a weighed sample of 30 to 130 grams is vaporized directly into the Karl Fischer analyte. A coulometer titration is conducted and the results are calculated and displayed as parts per million moisture (weight).

8.9 Determination of Percent Lubricant.

8.9.1 The amount of oil in the recycled sample of CFC-12 is to be determined by gravimetric analysis.

8.9.2 Following venting of noncondensable, in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions, the refrigerant container shall be shaken for 5 minutes prior to extracting samples for test.

8.9.3 A weighted sample of 175 to 225 grams of liquid CFC-12 is allowed to evaporate at room temperature. The percent oil is to be calculated from the weight of the original sample and the residue remaining after the evaporation.

8.10 Noncondensable Gas.

8.10.1 The amount of noncondensable gas is to be determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A Porapak Q column at 130 &#xB0;C and a hot wire detector may be used for analysis.

8.10.2 This test shall be conducted on recycled refrigerant (taken from the liquid phase) within 30 minutes after the proper venting of noncondensable.

8.10.3 Samples shall be shaken for 8 hours prior to retesting while at a temperature of 24 +/-2.8 &#xB0;C (75 +/-5 &#xB0;F). Known volumes of refrigerant vapor are to be injected for separation and analysis by means of gas chromatography. A Porapak Q column at 130 &#xB0;C (266 &#xB0;F) and a hot wire detector are to be used for the analysis.

8.10.4 This test shall be conducted at 21 and 49 &#xB0;C and may be performed in conjunction with the testing defined in Section 8.6. The equipment shall process at least 13.6 kg of standard contaminated refrigerant for this test.

8.11 Sample Requirements.

8.11.1 The sample shall be tested as defined in 8.7, 8.8, 8.9, and 8.10 at ambient temperatures of 10, 21, and 49 &#xB0;C (50, 70, and 120 &#xB0;F) as defined in 8.6.1.

During service of mobile air-conditioning systems, containment of the refrigerant is important. This procedure provides service guidelines for technicians when repairing vehicles and operating equipment defined in SAE J1990.

3. 1 Connect the recovery unit service hoses, which shall have shutoff valves within 12 in (30 cm) of the service ends, to the vehicle air-conditioning system service ports.

3.2 Operate the recovery equipment as covered by the equipment manufacturers recommended procedure.

3.2.1 Start the recovery process and remove the refrigerant from the vehicle AC system. Operate the recovery unit until the vehicle system has been reduced from a pressure to a vacuum. With the recovery unit shut off for at least 5 min, determine that there is no refrigerant remaining in the vehicle AC system. If the vehicle system has pressure, additional recovery operation is required to remove the remaining refrigerant. Repeat the operation until the vehicle AC system vacuum level remains stable for 2 min.

3.3 Close the valves in the service lines and then remove the service lines from the vehicle system. Proceed with the repair/service. If the recovery equipment has automatic closing valves, be sure they are properly operating.

4.1 Service hoses must have shutoff valves in the high, low, and center service hoses within 12 in (30 cm) of the service ends. Valves must be closed prior to hose removal from the air-conditioning system. This will reduce the volume of refrigerant contained in the service hose that would otherwise be vented to atmosphere.

4.2 During all service operations, the valves should be closed until connected to the vehicle air-conditioning system or the charging source to avoid introduction of air and to contain the refrigerant rather than vent open to atmosphere.

4.3 When the manifold gage set is disconnected from the air-conditioning system or when the center hose is moved to another device which cannot accept refrigerant pressure, the gage set hoses should first be attached to the reclaim equipment to recover the refrigerant from the hoses.

5.1 To determine if the recycled refrigerant container has excess noncondensable gases (air), the container must be stored at a temperature of 65 &#xB0;F (18.3 &#xB0;C) or above for a period of time, 12 h, protected from direct sun.

5.2 Install a calibrated pressure gage, with 1 psig divisions (0.07 kg), to the container and determine the container pressure.

5.3 With a calibrated thermometer, measure the air temperature within 4 in (10 cm) of the container surface.

5.4 Compare the observed container pressure and air temperature to determine if the container exceeds the pressure limits found on Table 1, e.g., air temperature 70 &#xB0;F (21 &#xB0;C) pressure must not exceed 80 psig (5.62 kg/cm).

5.5 If the container pressure is less than the Table 1 values and has been recycled, limits of noncondensable gases (air) have not been exceeded and the refrigerant may be used.

5.6 If the pressure is greater than the range and the container contains recycled material, slowly vent from the top of the container a small amount of vapor into the recycle equipment until the pressure is less than the pressure shown on Table 1.

5.7 If the container still exceeds the pressure shown on Table 1, the entire contents of the container shall be recycled.

6.1 Recycled refrigerant should not be salvaged or stored in disposable refrigerant containers. This is the type of container in which virgin refrigerant is sold. Use only DOT CFR title 49 or UL approved storage containers for recycled refrigerant.

6.2 Any container of recycled refrigerant that has been stored or transferred must be checked prior to use as defined in section 5.

7.1 When external portable containers are used for transfer, the container must be evacuated at least 27 in of vacuum (75 mm Hg absolute pressure) prior to transfer of the recycled refrigerant. External portable containers must meet DOT and UL standards.

7.2 To prevent on-site overfilling when transferring to external containers, the safe filling level must be controlled by weight and must not exceed 60% of container gross weight rating.

8.1 Since all the refrigerant may not be removed from disposable refrigerant containers during normal system charging procedures, empty/near empty container contents should be reclaimed prior to disposal of the container.

8.2 Attach the container to the recovery unit and remove the remaining refrigerant. When the container has been reduced from a pressure to a vacuum, the container valve can be closed. The container should be marked empty and is ready for disposal.

Not applicable.

Not applicable.

During service of mobile air-conditioning systems, containment of the refrigerant is important. This procedure provides service guidelines for technicians when repairing vehicles and operating equipment defined in SAE J1990.
