
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
############# Appendix C to Subpart B of Part 82 - SAE J2788 Standard for Recovery/Recycle and Recovery/Recycle/Recharging Equipment for HFC-134Refrigerant

This Appendix establishes the specific minimum equipment requirements for the recovery/recycling of HFC-134a that has been directly removed from, and is intended for reuse in, mobile air-conditioning systems and recovery/recycling and system recharging of recycled, reclaimed or virgin HFC-134a. Establishing such specifications will ensure that system operation with recycled HFC-134a will provide the same level of performance and durability as new refrigerant.

The purpose of this SAE Standard is to establish the specific minimum equipment performance requirements for recovery and recycling of HFC-134a that has been directly removed from, and is intended for reuse in, mobile air-conditioning (A/C) systems. It also is intended to establish requirements for equipment used to recharge HFC-134a to an accuracy level that meets Section 9 of this document and SAE J2099. The requirements apply to the following types of service equipment and their specific applications.

a. Recovery/Recycling Equipment,

b. Recovery/Recycling-Refrigerant Charging,

c. Refrigerant Recharging Equipment Only.

1.1 Improved refrigerant recovery equipment is required to ensure adequate refrigerant recovery to reduce emissions and provide for accurate recharging of mobile air conditioning systems. Therefore, 12 months following the publication date of this standard, requirements in this standard supplements and supersedes, SAE J2210.

The following publications form a part of this specification to the extent specified herein. Unless otherwise indicated, the latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.
