
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
######## http://www.ul.com.

Available from Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096, Tel: 847-272-8800,

3.1 The equipment must be able to remove and process HFC-134a (R-134a) from mobile A/C systems to the purity level specified in SAE J2099.

3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment and be capable of continuous operation in ambients from 10 &#xB0;C to 49 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to 120 &#xB0;F). If it is designed to recharge a system, and it uses a scale for this purpose, the scale must demonstrate the ability to maintain accuracy per the test in 10.2.

3.3 The equipment must be certified that it meets this specification by an EPA listed certifying laboratory.

3.4 The equipment shall have a label, which states, "Certified by (Certifying Agent) to Meet SAE J2788 superseding SAE J2210" in bold-type letters a minimum of 3 mm (in) in height.

The equipment shall incorporate a desiccant package that must be replaced before saturation with moisture, and whose mineral acid capacity is at least 5% by weight of the dry desiccant.

4.1.1 The equipment shall be provided with a means of indicating when the filter desiccant moisture capacity has reached the allowable limit and desiccant replacement is required. This may include a reliable means of detecting moisture level or an algorithm based on the amount refrigerant recovered. The user must be clearly alerted to replace the filter prior to the full saturation. Warnings shall be displayed on screens and (printed on printouts where applicable). The warnings must explain that the machine is approaching the end of filter life. The manufacturer must incorporate a lockout when the end of filter life is reached.

4.1.2 The manufacturer shall use an identification system to ensure that a new filter has been installed to reset the machine for operation.

The equipment shall incorporate an in-line filter that will trap particulates of 15 micron spherical diameter or greater.

The scale must maintain accuracy when moved, as per the test in Section 10.

4.4.1 The equipment shall automatically purge noncondensables (NCGs), which are primarily air, if the acceptable level is exceeded. NCG removal must be part of the normal operation of the equipment and instructions must be provided to enable the task to be accomplished within 30 min (to reach the refrigerant purity level specified in SAE J2099).

4.4.2 Refrigerant loss from noncondensable gas purging during the testing described in Section 8 shall be minimized by a method that initiates a purge when the machine has not been in use for a period long enough for air-refrigerant separation in the tank to have occurred.

Recycled refrigerant for recharging and transfer shall be taken from the liquid phase only.

5.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to handling HFC-134a material. Safety precautions or notices related to safe operation of the equipment shall be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state "CAUTION-SHOULD BE OPERATED BY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL."

5.2 Under NO CIRCUMSTANCES should any equipment be pressure tested or leak tested with air/HFC-134a mixtures.

Do not use compressed air (shop air) or leak detection in systems containing HFC-134a.

6.1 The equipment manufacturer shall provide a warning in the instruction manual regarding the possibility of refrigerant contamination in the mobile A/C system being serviced.

6.1.1 If recovery/recycle equipment has refrigerant identification equipment, the refrigerant identification equipment shall meet the requirements of SAE J1771.

6.1.2 Recovery/recycling equipment not having refrigerant identification capability shall have instructions in the equipment manual covering possible contamination problems to the equipment and the contamination of the existing recycled refrigerant in the container in the equipment.

6.2 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, including proper attainment of vehicle system vacuum (i.e., when to stop the extraction process), filter/desiccant replacement, and purging of noncondensable gases (air). Also to be included are any other necessary maintenance procedures, source information for replacement parts and, repair and safety precautions.

6.2.1 The manual shall identify the proper maintaining of hose and seals to prevent the addition of excess air, due to leaks, during the recovery process, which would increase the NCG level in the recovered refrigerant.

6.3 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant it is designed to recycle, a service telephone number, and the part number for the replacement filter/drier.

The ability of the equipment to meet the refrigerant recovery and recharge specifications of this section shall be determined by the test procedures of Section 10.

7.1 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) to 49 &#xB0;C (120 &#xB0;F). Continuous is defined as completing recovery/recycle and recharge (if applicable) operations with no more than a brief reset period between vehicles, and shall not include time delays for allowing a system to outgas (which shall be part of the recovery period provided by this standard). Continuous may include time out for an air purge if necessary, although it is understood that extended equipment-off time is preferred to allow NCG and refrigerant separation in the supply tank for optimum results.

7.1.1 The equipment shall be capable of removing a minimum of 95.0% of the refrigerant from the test system in 30 minutes or less, without external heating, or use of any device (such as shields, reflectors, special lights, etc.) which could heat components of the system. The recovery procedures shall be based on 21 to 24 &#xB0;C (70 to 75 &#xB0;F) ambient temperature. The test system for qualifying shall be a 1.4 kg (3.0 lbs) capacity orifice tube/accumulator system in a 2005 Chevrolet Suburban with front and rear A/C, or the test option described in 10.5, and shall be determined by accurately weighing the recovery machine with the resolution and accuracy of within 3 g (.006 lb) in the range of the machine's weight. The laboratory shall maintain records of the vehicle, including its VIN (vehicle identification number).

7.1.2 However, the preceding shall not preclude a brief period of engine operation at fast idle (up to 15 minutes, up to 2000 rpm) to circulate refrigerant and oil, and provide some engine and warm-up of A/C refrigeration components. The laboratory shall monitor coolant temperature per the vehicle engine coolant temperature sensor, and coolant temperature shall not be allowed to exceed 105 &#xB0;C (221 &#xB0;F). The time required shall not be included in the total time of 30 minutes set forth in 7.1.1.

7.1.3 The refrigerant that is recovered, following oil separation, shall be measured and the quantity displayed, accurate to within +/-30 g (1.0 oz). The equipment must include a provision for checking the accuracy, per the requirements of 9.1.

7.2 During recovery operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure that the liquid fill of the storage container (which may be integral or external) does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 &#xB0;C per Department of Transportation (DOT) Standard, CFR Title 49, Section 173.304 and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

7.3 Portable refillable tanks or containers used in conjunction with this equipment must be labeled "HFC-134a (R-134a)," meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standards, and shall incorporate fittings per SAE J2197.

7.3.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves, UL 1769.

7.3.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1-Cylinders for Compressed Gases, CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.

7.3.3 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after the date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. SAE J2296 provides an inspection procedure. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm (in) high.

7.3.4 ASME tanks as defined in UL-1963 may be used and are exempt from the retest requirements.

7.3.5 If the machine is designed for recharging, and the marketer permits use of a non-refillable refrigerant tank, the machine shall include a way to ensure refrigerant remaining in the tank (called the "heel") to no more than 2% of tank rated capacity when the tank is indicated to be empty. This may be done by the machine marketer as follows:

- Specify a non-venting procedure, to minimize the amount of unused refrigerant remaining in the tank. The machine shall include any devices required for the procedure, other than ordinary service shop tools and supplies, and include in the operator's manual, any instructions.

- Provide an automatic or (with instructions in the operator's manual) semi-automatic non-venting procedure with the machine.

The laboratory shall test for the 2% capability. For testing purposes it may use a refillable tank, minimum 15 lb capacity (6.8 kg) containing a minimum of 7.5 lbs (3.4 kg) refrigerant. The test is as follows:

a. Weigh the tank at the start of the test, on a scale accurate to plus/minus 3 grams, to ensure it contains sufficient refrigerant.

b. Operate the machine to remove refrigerant from the tank, charging into a holding container until the tank is indicated to be empty. Continue with the marketer's recommended procedure for the 2% capability.

c. Weigh the tank, on a scale accurate to plus/minus 3 grams.

d. Using the recovery compressor and/or a vacuum pump, draw the tank into a vacuum of 9 to 10 inches Mercury (225 to 250 mm Mercury). The tank must hold that vacuum with a decay of less than 10% in 10 minutes. If vacuum decays 10% or more, the procedure shall be repeated as necessary to ensure the tank is empty.

e. Weigh the tank on a scale accurate to plus/minus 3 grams. The difference in weight from Steps 3 to 5 shall be within 2% of the weight of the amount of refrigerant that is the tanks rated capacity.

f. This test may be performed at the conclusion of testing in 10.4 or 10.5. If the machine passes or has passed all other testing in this standard, the marketer may make modifications in procedure and/or machine operation and retest once at a later date, within 90 days. If the machine fails the retest, the machine must be completely retested per this standard, or may be certified per the following alternative. The marketer of the machine may specify use of a non-refillable refrigerant tank that provides for recycling and/or disposal of the residual refrigerant, in either case in a manner that does not vent. Or the marketer may exclude use of a one-way container, in the machine's operating instructions.

7.4 All flexible hoses must comply with SAE J2196.

7.5 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located at the connection point to the system being serviced. Any hoses or lines connected to refrigerant containers on or in the machine also shall have shutoff devices at the connection points, so that the containers may be changed without loss of refrigerant. A tank that is a permanent installation is exempt from this requirement.

7.6 The equipment shall separate oil from the refrigerant, measure the amount accurate to 20 ml (0.7 oz.), so the technician has an accurate basis for adding oil to the system.

7.6.1 This statement shall be predominately identified in the equipment service manual.

This test procedure and its requirements are to be used to determine the ability of the recycling equipment to adequately recycle contaminated refrigerant.

8.1 The equipment shall be able to clean the contaminated refrigerant in ยง 8.3 to the purity level defined in SAE J2099.

8.2 The equipment shall be operated in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions.

8.3.1 The standard contaminated refrigerant shall consist of liquid HFC-134a with 1300 ppm (by weight) moisture (equivalent to saturation at 38 &#xB0;C, 100 &#xB0;F), 45000 ppm (by weight) HFC-134a compatible lubricant, and 1000 ppm (by weight) of noncondensable gases (air).

8.3.1.1 The HFC-134a compatible lubricant referred to in 8.3.1, shall be polyalkylene glycol (PAG), ISO 100 such as UCLN or PAG ISO 46-55, such as Idemitsu or equivalent, which shall contain no more than 1000 ppm by weight of moisture.

8.3.1.2 Although the test lubricant is a PAG, to conform to that used in the test vehicle system, the equipment manufacturer also shall ensure that it is compatible with polyol ester lubricant, such as ND 11 as used in electrically driven compressors in some hybrid vehicles.

8.4.1 The equipment must be preconditioned by processing 13.6 kg (30 lb) of the standard contaminated HFC-134a at an ambient of 21 to 24 &#xB0;C (70 to 75 &#xB0;F) before starting the test cycle. 1.13 kg (2.56 lb) samples are to be processed at 5 min intervals. The test fixture, depicted in Figure 1, shall be operated at 21 to 24 &#xB0;C (70 to 75 &#xB0;F).

8.4.2 Following the preconditioning procedure per 8.4.1, 18.2 kg (40 lb) of standard contaminated HFC-134a are to be processed by the equipment.

8.5.1 Samples of the standard contaminated refrigerant from 8.3.1 shall be processed as required in 8.6 and shall be analyzed after said processing as defined in 8.7, 8.8, and 8.9. Note exception for noncondensable gas determination in 8.9.4.

8.6.1 The HFC-134a is to be cleaned to the purity level, as defined in SAE J2099, with the equipment operating in a stable ambient of 10, 21, and 49 &#xB0;C (50, 70 and 120 &#xB0;F) while processing the samples as defined in 8.4.

8.7.1 The recycled liquid phase sample of HFC-134a shall be analyzed for moisture content via Karl Fischer coulometric titration, or an equivalent method. The Karl Fischer apparatus is an instrument for precise determination of small amounts of water dissolved in liquid and/or gas samples.

8.7.2 In conducting this test, a weighed sample of 30 to 130 g is vaporized directly into the Karl Fischer anolyte. A coulometric titration is conducted and the results are reported as parts per million moisture (weight).

8.8 Determination of Percent Lubricant 8.8.1 The amount of lubricant in the recycled HFC-134a sample shall be determined via gravimetric analysis. The methodology must account for the hygroscopicity of the lubricant.

8.8.2 Following venting of noncondensable gases in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions, the refrigerant container shall be shaken for 5 min prior to extracting samples for testing.

8.8.3 A weighed sample of 175 to 225 g of liquid HFC-134a is allowed to evaporate at room temperature. The percent lubricant is calculated from weights of the original sample and the residue remaining after evaporation.

8.9.1 The amount of noncondensable gases shall be determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A Porapak Q column at 130 &#xB0;C (266 &#xB0;F) and a hot wire detector may be used for the analysis.

8.9.2 This test shall be conducted on liquid phase samples of recycled refrigerant taken from a full container as defined in 7.2 within 30 min following the proper venting of noncondensable gases.

8.9.3 The liquid phase samples in 8.9.2 shall be vaporized completely prior to gas chromatographic analysis.

8.9.4 This test shall be conducted at 10 and 49 &#xB0;C (50 and 120 &#xB0;F) and may be performed in conjunction with the testing defined in 8.6. The equipment shall process at least 13.6 kg (30 lb) of standard contaminated refrigerant for this test.

8.9.5 The equipment shall be capable of charging refrigerant into systems with various lubrication types and shall deliver less than 1% by weight residual oil during system charge if the machine permits oil charging with refrigerant (due to residual oil in the service hoses and recovery unit refrigerant circuit from prior recovery, diagnostics and oil injection. This shall be determined during SAE J2099 testing.)

9.1 It is the responsibility of the equipment manufacturer to ensure that the vacuum removal performance leaves the system 98% free of NCGs before recharging, following recovery and recycle under the provisions of this document.

The equipment must be capable of both indicating and recharging the system to within 15 g (0.50 oz) of vehicle manufacturer's specifications. The laboratory shall test for this capability by choosing a charge amount that is within the range of the vehicle manufacturer's specifications. The equipment must indicate and charge the system with that chosen amount, within +/-15 g (0.5 oz).

9.2 If any other system is used for charge determination, such as a positive displacement pump, the equipment manufacturer shall provide a method and any needed device(s) to check accuracy that is/are appropriate for its method of operation, including any temperature-compensating trim if used.

10.1 Preliminary: Ambient (in shop) temperature shall be 21 to 24 &#xB0;C (70 to 75 &#xB0;F). Test vehicle shall be "overnight cold" (not run for at least eight hours).

10.2 The machine must have a self-contained provision for checking accuracy of the indicated amount of refrigerant recovered in liquid or vapor or mixture form(s) from a vehicle system and (if applicable) charged into a vehicle, and adjusting if necessary, to meet requirements of 9.1, 9.2. Therefore: If the machine uses a scale for that purpose, check the accuracy of that scale and make any adjustment if necessary. If an alternative method of measuring refrigerant is used, follow the equipment manufacturer's procedure for ensuring accuracy. Next, move the machine, such as by rolling it, along the floor, a minimum of 20 feet (6.1 meters) within 10 seconds. Follow with the test procedure in 10.3, then 10.4 or 10.5.

If desired, this test procedure may be preceded by engine/system operation for up to 15 minutes, up to 2000 rpm.

1. You must start with an empty system, using this method: (a) Operate machine to recover refrigerant, per equipment manufacturer's instructions. (b) Deep-vacuum system to a minimum of 710 mm (28 in) of mercury. (c) Monitor vacuum for decay, checking every 20 minutes. If decay exceeds 75 mm (3 in), deep vacuum the system again. When system holds 710 mm (28 in) 75 mm (3 in) of mercury vacuum for three hours, it is considered empty.

2. Place machine on a platform scale with the capacity to weigh the recovery/recycle/recharge machine, and with the resolution and accuracy of within +/-3 g (.006 lb) in the range of the machine's weight. Weight should include the machine's service hoses draped over the machine, and with the machine's oil reservoir removed. If necessary to add oil to vehicle system as a result of a system operation preparatory to the recovery process, inject the needed quantity through the service valve at this time.

3. Record weight of machine in as weight A.

4. Reconnect service hoses to the test vehicle.
