
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
######## i.e.

5. Follow the equipment manufacturer's specified procedure for charging the vehicle manufacturer's recommended amount of refrigerant into the system. Note: if this does not apply to the machine under test,a recovery/recycling only machine, the use of charging equipment that meets this standard and the platform scale shall be used to verify the accuracy of the charge.

6. Disconnect the service hoses from the test vehicle and drape them on the machine. Check and record the weight of the machine. Record this weight as weight B. The difference between weight A and weight B should be equal to the recommended charge that was installed per the machine's display, within 15 g (0.5 oz). If the difference is greater than 15 g (+/-3 g), the machine fails the charge accuracy test, and no other tests shall be performed at that time. The manufacturer must document changes made to improve accuracy and furnish them to the laboratory prior to a new test. Exception: If the maximum deviation is no more than a total of 20 g, the calibration of the scale or other measuring system may be rechecked and readjusted once, and the entire test repeated just once.

1. Following a successful system charge, the system and engine shall be run for 15 minutes at 2000 rpm to circulate oil and refrigerant, following which engine and system shall rest for eight hours. Then the laboratory may begin the recovery test. If the machine manufacturer specifies, operate the engine/system for up to 15 minutes, at up to 2000 rpm, then shut off engine/system.

2. If the machine has an automatic air purge, disable it. Check the weight of the machine with the platform scale (service hoses draped over machine, oil reservoir removed). Record the number as Weight C. Reinstall oil reservoir if it had been removed in the recovery procedure.

3. Start timer. Connect service hoses to system of test vehicle and perform recovery per the equipment manufacturer's instructions. The vehicle system service valves' cores must remain in the fittings for this procedure.

4. When recovery is completed, including from service hoses if that is part of the recommended procedure, disconnect hoses and drape over machine. Stop timer. The elapsed time shall be 30.0 minutes or less. If it is in excess of this time, the machine fails the test and no retest is allowed. The manufacturer must document changes made to the machine to improve its performance before a new test is allowed, and furnish them to the laboratory.

5. If the recovery is completed in no more than the 30.0 minutes, measure the oil level in the reservoir, remove the reservoir and then determine the amount of refrigerant recovered, as detailed in Nos. 6 and 7: As measured by the machine and also by noting the weight of the platform scale, which shall be recorded as Weight D.

6. The platform scale shall indicate that a minimum of 95% of the amount charged into the system has been recovered. If the platform scale indicates a lower percentage has been recovered, the machine fails the recovery test.

7. The machine display shall indicate that a minimum of 95.0% of the amount charged into the system has been recovered, within a tolerance of +/-30 g (1 oz) when compared with the platform scale (Weight D minus Weight C). The 30 g (1 oz) tolerance may produce a machine display reading that is below the 95.0% recovery. If a greater difference between machine and platform scale occurs, the machine fails the recovery test.

If an equipment manufacturer chooses, as an alternative to the actual vehicle, it may certify to SAE J2788 with a laboratory fixture that is composed entirely of all the original equipment parts of a single model year for the 3.0 lb capacity front/rear A/C system in the 2005-07 Chevrolet Suburban. All parts must be those OE-specified for one model year system and no parts may be eliminated or bypassed from the chosen system, or reproduced by a non-OE source. No parts may be added and/or relocated from the OE position in the 2005-07 Suburban. No parts may be modified in any way that could affect system performance for testing under this standard, except adding refrigerant line bends and/or loops to make the system more compact. Reducing the total length of the lines, however, is not permitted. The fixture system shall be powered by an electric motor, run at a speed not to exceed 2000 rpm, and for this test option, no system warm-up or equivalent procedure may be used. The certifying laboratory shall maintain records of all parts purchased, including invoices and payments. The assembly of the parts shall, as an outside-the-vehicle package, duplicate the OE system and its routing, including bends, except for permitted additions of bends and/or loops in refrigerant lines. Aside from the absence of engine operation and the limitations posed by the standard and the use of the electric motor, the test shall otherwise be the same as the test on the Suburban, including test temperature.
