
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
######## http://www.ul.com.
############# Appendix E to Subpart B of Part 82 - The Standard for Automotive Refrigerant Recycling Equipment Intended for Use With Both CFC-12 and HFC-134

SAE J2211, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of HFC-134a, as set forth under Appendix C of this subpart, and SAE J1989, Recommended Service Procedure for the Containment of CFC-12, as set forth under Appendix A of this subpart, also apply to this Appendix E of this subpart.

SAE J1770, issued December, 1995.

The purpose of this standard is to establish specific minimum equipment requirements for automotive refrigerant recycling equipment intended for use with both CFC-12 and HFC-134a in a common refrigerant circuit. Establishing such specifications will assure that this equipment does not cross contaminate refrigerant above specified limits when used under normal operating conditions.

The purpose of this standard is to establish the specific minimum equipment intended for use with both CFC-12 and HFC-134a in a common refrigerant circuit that has been directly removed from, and is intended for reuse in, mobile air-conditioning (A/C) systems. This standard does not apply to equipment used for CFC-12 and HFC-134a having a common enclosure with separate circuits for each refrigerant.

2.1 Applicable Documents-The following publications form a part of this specification to the extent specified. The latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.

2.1.1 SAE Publications-Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001.

2.1.2 Compressed Gas Association (CGA) Publications-Available from CGA, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202.

Part 1-Cylinders for Compressed Gases

2.1.3 DOT Publications-Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402

2.1.4 UL Publications-Available from Underwriters Laboratories, 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.

3.1 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment and be capable of continuous operation in ambients from 10 to 49 &#xB0;C.

3.2 The equipment must be certified that it meets this specification by Underwriters Laboratories Inc. (UL), or by an equivalent Nationally Recognized Testing Laboratory (NRTL).

3.3 The equipment shall have a label which states "Design Certified by (Certifying Agent) to meet SAE J1770 for recycling CFC-12 and HFC-134a using common refrigerant circuits", in bold-type letters a minimum of 3 mm in height.

4.1 General

4.1.1 The equipment shall be capable of preventing cross contamination to the level required by Section 9.2.1.G before an operation involving a different refrigerant can begin. The equipment must prevent initiation of the recovery operation if the equipment is not set up properly.

4.1.2 If an operator action is required to clear the unit prior to reconnecting for a different refrigerant, the equipment shall be provided with a means which indicates which refrigerant was last processed.

4.1.3 Means shall be provided to prevent recovery from both an CFC-12 and HFC-134a mobile air conditioning system concurrently.

4.1.4 Transfer of recycled refrigerant-Recycled refrigerant for recharging and transfer shall be taken from the liquid phase only.

4.2 Seat Leakage Test

4.2.1 Valves, including electrically operated solenoid valves, that are used to isolate CFC-12 and HFC-134a refrigerant circuits, shall have a seat leakage rate not exceeding 15 g/yr (oz/yr) before and after 100,000 cycles of operation. This Endurance Test shall be conducted with HFC-134a at maximum operating pressure as determined by sections 8.1 and 8.2. The Seat Leakage Test shall be performed at 1.5 times this pressure at an ambient of 24 &#xB0;C.

4.3 Interlocks

4.3.1 Electrical interlock devices used to prevent cross contamination of refrigerant shall be operated for 100,000 cycles and there shall be no failure that would permit cross contamination of refrigerant. Solid state inter lock devices shall comply with the Transient Overvoltage Test and the Fast Transient (Electric Noise) Test contained in the Standard for Tests for Safety Related Controls Employing Solid-State Devices, UL 991.

4.4 Noncondensable Gases

4.4.1 The equipment shall either automatically purge noncondensables (NCGs) if the acceptable level is exceeded or incorporate a device that indicates to the operator the NCG level has been exceeded. A pressure gauge used to indicate an NCG level shall be readable in 1 psig increments. NCG removal must be part of the normal operation of the equipment and instructions must be provided to enable the task to be accomplished within 30 minutes.

4.4.2 Refrigerant loss from noncondensable gas purging, oil removal, and refrigerant clearing shall not exceed more than 5 percent by weight of the total amount of refrigerant through the equipment as detailed in Sections 8.1, 8.2, and 9.2.

4.5 Filter

4.5.1 A 15 micron filter, or other equivalent means, to remove particulates of 15 micrometers spherical diameter or greater shall be located before any manual electrically operated valves that may cause cross contamination.

4.6 Moisture and Acid

4.6.1 The equipment shall incorporate a desiccant package that must be replaced before saturated with moisture, and whose acid capacity is at least 5% by weight of the dry desiccant.

4.6.2 The equipment shall be provided with a moisture detection means that will reliably indicate when moisture in the HFC-134a exceeds 50 ppm, or in the CFC-12 exceeds 15 ppm, and requires the filter/drier replacement.
