
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
######## i.e.,

5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions, including proper attainment of vehicle system vacuum (when to stop the extraction process, and also to stop the extraction process if it is noticed that the A/C system being serviced has a leak), filter/desiccant replacement, and purging of noncondensable gases (air). The instructions shall indicate that the correct sequence of operation be followed so that the equipment can properly remove contaminates to the acceptable level. Also to be included are any other necessary maintenance procedures, source information for replacement parts and repair, and safety precautions.

5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant (CFC-12 and HFC-134a), a service telephone number, and the part number for the replacement filter/drier. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

6.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to handling CFC-12 and HFC-134a material. Safety precautions or notices related to the safe operation of the equipment shall be prominently displayed on the equipment and should also state "CAUTION-SHOULD BE OPERATED BY QUALIFIED PERSONNEL".

6.2 HFC-134a has been shown to be nonflammable at ambient temperature and atmospheric pressure. The following statement shall be in the operating manual: "Caution: HFC-134a service equipment or vehicle A/C systems should not be pressure tested or leak tested with compressed air. Some mixtures of air and HFC-134a have been shown to be combustible at elevated pressures (when contained in a pipe or tank). These mixtures may be potentially dangerous, causing injury or property damage. Additional health and safety information may be obtained from refrigerant and lubricant manufacturers."

7.1 General
