
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
######## http://www.ul.com.

Available from Underwriters Laboratories Inc., 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096, Tel: 847-272-8800,

UL 1769 Cylinder Valves.

3.1 The equipment must be able to recover (extract) HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant from a mobile A/C system per the test procedure of sections 7 and 8.

3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment as defined in 6.8.

The equipment shall be certified by an EPA-listed laboratory to meet this standard. SAE J2810.

The equipment shall have a label with bold type, minimum 3 mm high, saying "Design Certified by (certifying agent, EPA listed laboratory) to meet SAE J2810 for use only with HFC-134a (R-134a). If it is to be re-used in an A/C system, the refrigerant recovered with this equipment must be processed to the appropriate ARI 700 specifications or to specifications by using equipment certified to perform to SAE J2788."

Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Design (Design FMEA), Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis in Manufacturing and Assembly Processes (Process FMEA), and Potential Failure Mode and Effects Analysis for Machinery (Machinery FMEA) shall be applied to the design and development of service equipment.

4.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of HFC-134a (R-134a) material. Safety precautions or notices, labels, related to the safe operation of the equipment shall also be prominently displayed on the equipment and should state "CAUTION-SHOULD BE OPERATED ONLY BY CERTIFIED PERSONNEL." The safety identification shall be located on the front near the controls.

4.2 The equipment must comply with applicable safety standards for the electrical and mechanical systems.

5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions that include information required by SAE J639, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.

5.1.1 The instruction manual shall include the following information on the lubricant removed. Only new lubricant, as identified by the system manufacturer, should be replaced in the mobile A/C system. Removed lubricant from the system and/or the equipment shall be disposed of in accordance with the applicable federal, state, and local procedures and regulations.

5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant it is designed to extract (R-134a), a service telephone number, and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.

5.3 The equipment manufacturer shall provide a warning in the instruction manual regarding the possibility of refrigerant contamination from hydrocarbons, leak sealants and refrigerants other than R-134a in the mobile A/C system being serviced.

5.4 Recovery equipment having refrigerant identification equipment shall meet the requirements of SAE J1771.

5.5 Recovery equipment not having refrigerant identification capability shall have instructions warning the technician that failure to verify that the system contains only R-134a potentially exposes him or her to danger from flammable refrigerants and health hazards from toxic refrigerants. The instructions also shall alert to possible contamination problems to the recovery equipment from sealants and refrigerants other than R-134a, and to the fact that a refrigerant other than R-134a would require special handling by someone with specific expertise and equipment.

6.1 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F) to 49 &#xB0;C (120 &#xB0;F). Continuous is defined as completing recovery operation with no more than a brief reset between servicing vehicles, and shall not include time delays for allowing a system to outgas (which shall be part of the recovery period provided by this standard).

6.1.1 The equipment shall demonstrate ability to recovery a minimum of 95.0% of the refrigerant from the test vehicle in 30.0 minutes or less, without prior engine operation (for previous eight hours minimum), external heating or use of any device (such as shields, reflectors, special lights, etc.), which could heat components of the system. The recovery procedure shall be based on a test at 21 &#xB0;C to 24 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F to 75 &#xB0;F) ambient temperature. The test system for qualifying shall be a 1.4 kg (3.0 lbs) capacity orifice tube/accumulator system in a 2005-07 Chevrolet Suburban with front and rear A/C or the test option described in section 9.

6.1.2 The equipment shall demonstrate ability to recover a minimum of 85% of the refrigerant from the test vehicle or system of 6.1.1. in 30.0 minutes or less, at an ambient temperature of 10 &#xB0;C to 13 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to 55 &#xB0;F), subject to the same restrictions regarding engine operation and external heating.

6.1.3 During recovery operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection so that the liquid fill of the storage container does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F). This will ensure that the container meets Department of Transportation (DOT) Standard, CFR Title 49, section 173.304 and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

6.1.4 Portable refillable tanks or containers used in conjunction with this equipment must be labeled "HFC-134a (R-134a) and meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or Underwriters Laboratories (UL) Standards, and incorporate fittings per SAE J2197.

6.1.5 The cylinder valves shall comply with the standard for cylinder valves UL 1769.

6.1.6 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1-Cylinders for Compressed Gasses CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.

6.1.7 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be five years from the date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent five years. SAE J2296 provides an inspection procedure. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm (0.25 in) high. If ASME tanks, as defined in UL-1963, are used, they are exempt from the retest requirements.

6.2 If the marketer permits use of a refillable refrigerant tank, a method must be provided (including any necessary fittings) for transfer to a system that ensures proper handling (recycling or other, environmentally-legal disposal).

Restricting the equipment to use of non-refillable tanks eliminates compliance with this provision.

6.3 Prior to testing under this standard, the equipment must be preconditioned with a minimum of 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) at an ambient of 21 &#xB0;C before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 min. The test fixture shown in Figure 1 shall be operated at 21 &#xB0;C. Contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) samples shall be processed at ambient temperatures of 10 &#xB0;C and 49 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to 120 &#xB0;F), without the equipment shutting down due to any safety devices employed in this equipment.

6.3.1 Contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) sample shall be standard contaminated HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant, 13.6 kg sample size, consisting of liquid HFC-134a (R-134a) with 1300 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) and 45 000 ppm (by weight) of oil (polyalkylene glycol oil with 46-160 cst viscosity at 40 &#xB0;C) and 1000 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air).

6.3.2 Portable refillable containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable DOT Standards. The color of the container must be blue with a yellow top to indicate the container holds used HFC-134a (R-134a) refrigerant. The container must be permanently marked on the outside surface in black print at least 20 mm high, "CONTAMINATED HFC-134a (R-134a)-DO NOT USE, MUST BE REPROCESSED."

6.3.3 The portable refillable container shall have ain ACME thread.

6.4 Additional Storage Tank Requirements.

6.4.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with UL 1769.

6.4.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.

6.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 for service hoses.

6.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located at the connection points to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment during connection and the release of the refrigerant during disconnection.

6.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed from the simulated automotive system during processing in 20 mL (0.7 fl oz) units.

6.7.1 The purpose of indicating the amount of lubricant removed is to ensure that a proper amount of new lubricant is returned to the mobile A/C system for compressor lubrication, if the system is to be charged with equipment meeting SAE J2788.

6.7.2 Refrigerant dissolved in this lubricant must be accounted for to prevent lubricant overcharge of the mobile A/C system.

6.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in ambient temperatures of 10 &#xB0;C to 49 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to120 &#xB0;F) and comply with 6.1 to 6.4 of this standard.

6.9 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

7. Test Procedure A at 21 &#xB0;C to 24 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F to 75 &#xB0;F).

The test vehicle (2005-2007 Chevrolet Suburban with rear A/C system-1.4 kg/ 3.0 lb) or laboratory fixture per section 10.5 of SAE J2788, shall be prepared as for SAE J2788, section 10.3, following Steps 1, 2, 3, 4, and then the following:

7.1 Using a machine certified to SAE J2788 and with the machine on a platform scale with accuracy to within plus/minus 3.0 grams at the weight of the machine, charge the system to the vehicle manufacturer's recommended amount of refrigerant (1.4 kg-3.0 lb). The actual charge amount per the reading on the platform scale shall be used as the basis for the recovery efficiency of the recovery-only machine being tested to this standard. Run the engine (or operate test fixture with electric motor) for up to 15 minutes at up to 2000 rpm to circulate oil and refrigerant. The system then must rest for eight hours.

7.2 Place the recovery machine on the platform scale and record the weight with the hoses draped over the machine. Ambient temperature shall be within the range of 21 &#xB0;C to 24 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F to 75 &#xB0;F) for this test, which shall be performed without the immediately prior engine operation permitted by SAE J2788, Section 10.3, Step No.1. The only permitted engine operation is as specified in 7.1.

7.3 Start the timer. Connect the service hoses to the system of the test vehicle and perform the recovery per the equipment manufacturer's instructions. The vehicle system's service valve cores must remain in the fittings for this procedure.

7.4 When recovery is completed, including from the service hoses if that is part of the recommended procedure, disconnect the hoses and drape over the machine. Stop the timer. The elapsed time shall be no more than 30 minutes.

7.5 Remove the oil reservoir, empty and reinstall. The platform scale shall indicate that a minimum of 95.0% of the refrigerant has been recovered, based on the charge amount indicated by the platform scale. If the machine has recovered the minimum of 95.0% within the 30.0 minutes, the next test shall be performed. If it fails this test, the marketer of the equipment must document changes to the equipment to upgrade performance before a retest is allowed. If it passes, the laboratory can proceed to Test Procedure B-10 &#xB0;C to 13 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to 55 &#xB0;F).

8. Test Procedure B at 10 &#xB0;C to 13 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to 55 &#xB0;F).

The test vehicle (2005-2007 Chevrolet Suburban front/rear A/C system (1.4 kg/3.0 lb) or test fixture per section 10.5 of SAE J2788, shall be prepared as per 7.0 and 7.1 of this standard, and then the following:

8.1 Place the recovery machine on the platform scale and record the weight with the hoses draped over the machine.

Ambient temperature at this time shall be no higher than 10 &#xB0;C to13 &#xB0;C (50 &#xB0;F to 55 &#xB0;F).

8.2 Start the timer. Connect the service hoses to the system of the test vehicle and perform the recovery per the equipment manufacturer's instructions. This also shall be performed without the immediately prior engine operation permitted by SAE J2788, section 10.4, Step No. 1. The vehicle system's service valve cores must remain in the fittings for this procedure.

8.3 When recovery is completed, including from the service hoses if that is part of the recommended procedure, disconnect the hoses and drape over the machine. Stop the timer. The elapsed time shall be no more than 30 minutes.

8.4 Remove the oil reservoir, empty and reinstall. The platform scale shall indicate that a minimum of 85.0% of the refrigerant has been recovered, based on the charge amount indicated by the platform scale. If the machine has recovered the minimum of 85.0% within the 30 minutes, it has passed the test procedure and if it meets all other requirements of this standard, it is certified.

As in SAE J2788, Section 10.5, as an alternative to a 2005-2007 Chevrolet Suburban with rear A/C (1.4 kg-3.0 lb) system, a laboratory test fixture may be used to certify to SAE J2810 the fixture must be composed entirely of all the original equipment parts of a single model year for the 1.4 kg (3.0 lb) capacity system. All parts must be those OE-specified for one model year system and no parts may be eliminated or bypassed from the chosen system or reproduced from a non-OE source. No parts may be added and/or relocated from the OE position in the 2005-07 Suburban. No parts may be modified in any way that could affect system performance for testing under this standard, except adding refrigerant line bends and/or loops to make the system more compact. Reducing the total length of the lines, however, is not permitted.

The fixture systems for this standard shall not be powered by an electric motor during recovery, although a motor can be used, run at a speed not to exceed 2000 rpm, as part of the preparatory process, including installation of the charge.
