
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover-Only Equipment That Extracts a Single, Specific Refrigerant Other Than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or R-1234yf
####### i.e.,

6.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring removal of refrigerant from the system being serviced by reducing the system pressure to a minimum of 102 mm (4 in) of mercury below atmospheric pressure (to a vacuum). To prevent system delayed outgassing, the unit must have a device that assures that the refrigerant has been recovered from the air-conditioning system.

6.1.1 Testing laboratory certification of the equipment capability is required which shall process contaminated refrigerant samples at specific temperatures.

6.2 The equipment must be preconditioned by processing 13.6 kg (30 lb) of the standard contaminated refrigerant at an ambient of 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F) before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts are not to exceed 1.13 kg (2.5 lb) with sample amounts to be processed at 5 min. intervals. The test method fixture, depicted in Figure 1 to appendix A of this subpart, shall be operated at 21 &#xB0;C (70 &#xB0;F). Contaminated refrigerant samples shall be processed at ambient temperatures of 10 and 49 &#xB0;C, without equipment shutting due to any safety devices employed in this equipment.

6.2.1 Standard contaminated refrigerant, 13.6 kg (30 lb) sample size, shall consist of liquid refrigerant with 1000 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 &#xB0;C and 45,000 ppm (by weight) of oil (total of one-third mineral oil 525 suspension nominal, one-third PAG with 100 cSt viscosity at 40 &#xB0;C or equivalent, and one-third POE with 68 cSt viscosity at 40 &#xB0;C or equivalent) and 1000 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air). Refrigerant shall be identified prior to the recovery process to +/-2% of the original manufacturer's formulation submitted to, and accepted by, EPA under its Significant New Alternatives Policy program, with the exception that any flammable components shall be identified to +/-1%.

6.3 Portable refillable containers used in conjunction with this equipment must meet applicable DOT Standards.

6.3.1 The container color must be gray with a yellow top to identify that it contains used refrigerant. It must be permanently marked on the outside surface in black print at least 20 mm high "DIRTY [NAME OF REFRIGERANT]-DO NOT USE, MUST BE PROCESSED".

6.3.2 The portable refillable container shall have a unique thread connection for the specific refrigerant.

6.3.3 During operation, the equipment shall provide overfill protection to assure that the storage container liquid fill does not exceed 80% of the tank's rated volume at 21 &#xB0;C per DOT Standard, 49 CFR 173.304, and the American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

6.4 Additional Storage Tank Requirements

6.4.1 The cylinder valve shall comply with UL 1769.

6.4.2 The pressure relief device shall comply with CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.

6.4.3 The container assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm high.

6.5 All flexible hoses must meet SAE J2196 for service hoses except that fittings shall be unique to the applicable refrigerant.

6.6 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm of the connection point to the system being serviced to minimize introduction of noncondensable gases into the recovery equipment during connection and the release of the refrigerant during disconnection.

6.7 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the recovered refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount removed from the simulated automotive system during processing in 30 mL units.

6.7.1 The purpose of indicating the amount of lubricant is to ensure that a proper amount of new lubricant is returned to the mobile air conditioning system for compressor lubrication.

6.7.2 Refrigerant dissolved in this lubricant must be accounted for to prevent system lubricant overcharge of the mobile air-conditioning system.

6.8 The equipment must be capable of continuous operation in temperatures of 10 to 49 &#xB0;C and must comply with 6.1 and 6.2.

7. For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

The purpose of this standard is to provide equipment specifications for the recovery of any refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf for return to a refrigerant reclamation facility that will process it to AHRI Standard 700 (or for recycling in other EPA approved recycling equipment, in the event that EPA in the future designates a standard for equipment capable of recycling refrigerants other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf).
