
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix B to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover Equipment
######## i.e.,

7.1.1 The equipment must be capable of ensuring recovery of the CFC-12 and HFC-134a from the system being serviced, by reducing the system to a minimum of 102 mm of mercury below atmospheric pressure (vacuum).

7.1.2 The equipment must be compatible with leak detection material that may be present in the mobile A/C system.

7.2 Shut Off Device

7.2.1 To prevent overcharge, the equipment must be equipped to protect the tank used to store the recycled refrigerant with a shutoff device and a mechanical pressure relief valve.

7.3 Storage Tanks

7.3.1 Portable refillable tanks or containers shall be supplied with this equipment and must be labeled "HFC-134a" or "CFC-12" as appropriate, meet applicable Department of Transportation (DOT) or NRTL's Standards and be adaptable to existing refrigerant service and charging equipment.

7.3.2 The cylinder valve shall comply with the Standard for Cylinder Valves, UL 1769.

7.3.3 The pressure relief device shall comply with the Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1-Cylinders for Compressed Gases, CGA Pamphlet S-1.1.

7.3.4 The tank assembly shall be marked to indicate the first retest date, which shall be 5 years after the date of manufacture. The marking shall indicate that retest must be performed every subsequent 5 years. The marking shall be in letters at least 6 mm high.

7.4 Overfill Protection

7.4.1 During operation, the equipment must provide overfill protection to assure that during filling or transfer, the tank or storage container cannot exceed 80% of volume at 21.1 &#xB0;C of its maximum rating as defined by DOT standards, 49 CFR 173.304 and American Society of Mechanical Engineers.

7.5 Hoses and Connections

7.5.1 Separate inlet and outlet hoses with fittings and separate connections shall be provided for each refrigerant circuit.

7.5.2 All flexible hoses and fittings must meet SAE J2196 (for CFC-12) and SAE J2197 (for HFC-134a).

7.5.3 Service hoses must have shutoff devices located within 30 cm of the connection point to the system being serviced.

7.6 Lubricant Separation

7.6.1 The equipment must be able to separate the lubricant from the removed refrigerant and accurately indicate the amount of lubricant removed during the process, in 30 mL (1 fl oz) units. Refrigerant dissolves in lubricant and, as a result, increases the volume of the recovered lubricant sample. This creates the illusion that more lubricant has been recovered that actually has been. The equipment lubricant measuring system must take into account such dissolved refrigerant removed from the A/C system being serviced to prevent overcharging the vehicle system with lubricant.

7.6.2 The equipment must be provided with some means, such as a lockout device, which will prevent initiation of the recovery operation after switching to the other refrigerant, if the lubricant has not been drained from the oil separator.

8.0 Equipment shall be tested in sequence as noted in sections 8.1, 8.2 and 9.2. The filter/drier may be replaced only as noted by section 4.6.2.

8.1 CFC-12 Recycling Cycle

8.1.1 The maximum operating pressure of the equipment shall be determined when recycling CFC-12 while conducting the following tests. This pressure is needed for the Seat Leakage Test, Section 4.2.

8.1.2 The equipment must be preconditioned with 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated CFC-12 (see section 8.1.2a) at an ambient of 21 &#xB0;C before starting the test cycle. Sample amounts shall be 1.13 kg with sample amounts to be repeated every 5 minutes. The sample method fixture, defined in Figure 1 to Appendix A, shall be operated at 21 &#xB0;C.

8.1.2a Standard contaminated CFC-12 refrigerant shall consist of liquid CFC-12 with 100 ppm (by weight) moisture at 21 &#xB0;C and 45,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension viscosity nominal and 770 ppm by weight of noncondensable gases (air).

8.1.3 The high moisture contaminated sample shall consist of CFC-12 vapor with 1000 ppm (by weight) moisture.

8.1.4 The high oil contaminated sample shall consist of CFC-12 with 200,000 ppm (by weight) mineral oil 525 suspension viscosity nominal.

8.1.5 After preconditioning as stated in section 8.1.2, the test cycle is started, processing the following contaminated samples through the equipment.

8.2 HFC-134a Recycling Cycle

8.2.1 The maximum operating pressure of the equipment shall be determined when recycling HFC-134a while conducting the following tests. This pressure is needed for the Seat Leakage Test, Section 4.2.

8.2.2 The equipment must be preconditioned by processing 13.6 kg of the standard contaminated HFC-134a (see section 8.2.2a) at an ambient of 21 &#xB0;C before starting the test cycle. 1.13 kg samples are to be processed at 5 minute intervals. The text fixture shown in Figure 1 to Appendix A shall be operated at 21 &#xB0;C.

8.2.2a The standard contaminated refrigerant shall consist of liquid HFC-134a with 1300 ppm (by weight) moisture (equivalent to saturation at 38&#xB0;[100 &#xB0;F]), 45,000 ppm (by weight) HFC-134a compatible lubricant, and 1000 ppm (by weight) of noncondensable gases (air).

8.2.2b The HFC-134a compatible lubricant referred to in section 8.2.2a shall be a polyalkylene glycol based synthetic lubricant or equivalent, which shall contain no more than 1000 ppm by weight of moisture.

8.2.3 Following the preconditioning procedure per section 8.2.2, 18.2 kg of standard contaminated HFC-134a are to be processed by the equipment at each stable ambient temperature of 10, 21, and 49 &#xB0;C.

8.2.4 The HFC-134a is to be cleaned to the purity level, as defined in SAE J2099.

9.1 General

9.1.1 For test validation, the equipment is to be operated according to the manufacturer's instruction.

9.1.2 The equipment shall clean the contaminated CFC-12 refrigerant to the minimum purity level as defined in Appendix A, when tested in accordance with the requirements in section 8.1.

9.1.3 The equipment shall clean the contaminated HFC-134a refrigerant to the purity level defined in Appendix C, when tested in accordance with the requirements in section 8.2.

9.2 Test Cycle

9.2.1 The following method shall be used after the tests and requirements in Sections 8.1 and 8.2, respectively, are completed. Following the manufacturer's instructions, the equipment shall be cleared of HFC-134a, prior to beginning step A. The only refrigerant used for this is noted in steps A, C, and E of section 9.2.1. The test fixture shown in Figure 1 to Appendix A shall be used and the test shall be conducted at 10, 21, and 49 &#xB0;C ambients.

10.1 General

10.1.1 The processed contaminated samples shall be analyzed according to the following procedure.

10.2 Quantitative Determination of Moisture

10.2.1 The recycled liquid phase sample of refrigerant shall be analyzed for moisture content via Karl Fischer coulometer titration or an equivalent method. The Karl Fischer apparatus is an instrument for precise determination of small amounts of water dissolved in liquid and/or gas samples.

10.2.2 In conducting the test, a weighed sample of 30 to 130 g is vaporized directly into the Karl Fischer anolyte. A coulometer titration is conducted and the results are calculated and displayed as parts per million moisture (weight).

10.3 Determination of Percent Lubricant

10.3.1 The amount of lubricant in the recycled sample of refrigerant/lubricant is to be determined by gravimetric analysis.

10.3.2 Following venting of noncondensable, in accordance with the manufacturer's operating instructions, the refrigerant container shall be shaken for 5 minutes prior to extracting samples for test.

10.3.3 A weighed sample of 175 to 225 g of liquid refrigerant/lubricant is allowed to evaporate at room temperature. The percent lubricant is to be calculated from the weight of the original sample and the residue remaining after the evaporation.

10.4 Noncondensable Gas

10.4.1 The amount of noncondensable gas is to be determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A Propak Q column at 130 &#xB0;C and a hot wire detector may be used for analysis.

10.4.2 This test shall be conducted on liquid phase samples of recycled refrigerant taken from a full container as defined in 7.4 within 30 minutes following the proper venting of noncondensable gases.

10.4.3 The samples shall be shaken for at least 15 minutes prior to testing while at a temperature of 24 &#xB0;C +/-2.8 &#xB0;C.

10.5 Refrigerant Cross Contamination

10.5.1 The amount of cross contamination of CFC-12 in HFC-134a or HFC-134a in CFC-12 shall not exceed 0.5 percent by weight as determined by gas chromatography. A sample of vaporized refrigerant liquid shall be separated and analyzed by gas chromatography. A 1% SP-1000 on Carbopack B (60/80 mesh) column may be used for the analysis.
