
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart B - Servicing of Motor Vehicle Air Conditioners
###### Appendix F to Subpart B of Part 82 - Standard for Recover-Only Equipment That Extracts a Single, Specific Refrigerant Other Than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or R-1234yf

These specifications are for equipment that recovers, but does not recycle, any single, specific automotive refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf, including a blend refrigerant.

The purpose of this standard is to provide equipment specifications for the recovery of any single, specific refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf, including a blend refrigerant, which is either (1) to be returned to a refrigerant reclamation facility that will process the refrigerant to ARI Standard 700-93 or equivalent new product specifications at a minimum, or (2) to be recycled in approved refrigerant recycling equipment, or (3) to be destroyed. This standard applies to equipment used to service automobiles, light trucks, and other vehicles with similar air conditioning systems.

2.1 Applicable Documents-The following publications form a part of this specification to the extent specified. The latest issue of SAE publications shall apply.

2.1.1 SAE Publications-Available from SAE, 400 Commonwealth Drive, Warrendale, PA 15096-0001. SAE J639-Vehicle Service Coupling. SAE J2196-Service Hoses for Automotive Air-Conditioning (fittings modified)

2.1.2 ARI Publication-Available from Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute, 1501 Wilson Boulevard, Sixth Floor, Arlington, VA 22209. ARI 700-93-Specifications for Fluorocarbon Refrigerants.

2.1.3 Compressed Gas Association (CGA) Publications-Available from CGA, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Arlington, VA 22202. CGA Pamphlet S-1.1-Pressure Relief Device Standard Part 1-Cylinders for Compressed Gases.

2.1.4 DOT Publications-Available from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20402.

DOT Standard, 49 CFR 173.304-Shippers-General Requirements for Shipments and Packagings.

2.1.5 UL Publications-Available from Underwriters Laboratories, 333 Pfingsten Road, Northbrook, IL 60062-2096.

3.1 The equipment must be able to extract from a mobile air conditioning system the refrigerant other than CFC-12, HFC-134a, or HFO-1234yf to which the equipment is dedicated.

3.2 The equipment shall be suitable for use in an automotive service garage environment as defined in section 6.8.

3.3 The equipment discharge or transfer fitting shall be unique to prevent the unintentional use of the extracted refrigerant for recharging auto air conditioners.

3.4 Equipment Certification-The equipment shall be certified by Underwriters Laboratories or an-equivalent certifying laboratory to meet this standard.

3.5 Label Requirements-The equipment shall have a label "Designed Certified by (Company Name) to meet EPA requirements for use only with (the applicable refrigerant). The refrigerant from this equipment must be processed to ARI 700-93 specifications or equivalent new product specifications before reuse in a mobile air-conditioning system." The minimum letter size shall be bold type 3 mm in height.

4.1 The equipment must comply with applicable federal, state, and local requirements on equipment related to the handling of the applicable refrigerant material. Safety precautions or notices or labels related to the safe operation of the equipment shall also be prominently displayed on the equipment and should state "CAUTION-SHOULD BE OPERATED BY CERTIFIED PERSONNEL." The safety identification shall be located on the front near the controls.

4.2 The equipment must comply with applicable safety standards for electrical and mechanical requirements.

5.1 The equipment manufacturer must provide operating instructions that include information equivalent to that required by SAE J1629, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.

5.1.1 The instruction manual shall include the following information on the lubricant removed: Only new lubricant, as identified by the system manufacturer, should be replaced in the air conditioning system. Removed lubricant from the system and/or the equipment shall be disposed on in accordance with the applicable federal, state, and local procedures and regulations.

5.2 The equipment must prominently display the manufacturer's name, address, the type of refrigerant it is designed to extract, a service telephone number, and any items that require maintenance or replacement that affect the proper operation of the equipment. Operation manuals must cover information for complete maintenance of the equipment to assure proper operation.
