
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix F to Part 50 - Measurement Principle and Calibration Procedure for the Measurement of Nitrogen Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Gas Phase Chemiluminescence)
###### Procedure.

1.5

1.5.1 Assemble a dynamic calibration system such as the one shown in Figure 1.

1.5.2 Insure that all flowmeters are calibrated under the conditions of use against a reliable standard such as a soap-bubble meter or wet-test meter. All volumetric flowrates should be corrected to 25 &#xB0;C and 760 mm Hg. A discussion on the calibration of flowmeters is given in reference 13.

1.5.3 Precautions must be taken to remove Oand other contaminants from the NO pressure regulator and delivery system prior to the start of calibration to avoid any conversion of the standard NO to NO. Failure to do so can cause significant errors in calibration. This problem may be minimized by (1) carefully evacuating the regulator, when possible, after the regulator has been connected to the cylinder and before opening the cylinder valve; (2) thoroughly flushing the regulator and delivery system with NO after opening the cylinder valve; (3) not removing the regulator from the cylinder between calibrations unless absolutely necessary. Further discussion of these procedures is given in reference 13.

1.5.4 Select the operating range of the NO/NO/NOanalyzer to be calibrated. In order to obtain maximum precision and accuracy for NOcalibration, all three channels of the analyzer should be set to the same range. If operation of the NO and NOchannels on higher ranges is desired, subsequent recalibration of the NO and NOchannels on the higher ranges is recommended.

1.5.5 Connect the recorder output cable(s) of the NO/NO/NOanalyzer to the input terminals of the strip chart recorder(s). All adjustments to the analyzer should be performed based on the appropriate strip chart readings. References to analyzer responses in the procedures given below refer to recorder responses.

1.5.6 Determine the GPT flow conditions required to meet the dynamic parameter specification as indicated in 1.4.

1.5.7 Adjust the diluent air and Ogenerator air flows to obtain the flows determined in section 1.4.2. The total air flow must exceed the total demand of the analyzer(s) connected to the output manifold to insure that no ambient air is pulled into the manifold vent. Allow the analyzer to sample zero air until stable NO, NO, and NOresponses are obtained. After the responses have stabilized, adjust the analyzer zero control(s).

Offsetting the analyzer zero adjustments to + 5 percent of scale is recommended to facilitate observing negative zero drift. Record the stable zero air responses as Z,, and.
