
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart C - Ban on Nonessential Products Containing Class I Substances and Ban on Nonessential Products Containing or Manufactured With Class II Substances
###### § 82.64 Prohibitions.

(a) Effective February 16, 1993, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products identified as being nonessential in § 82.66(a).

(b) Effective February 16, 1993, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products specified in § 82.66(b) to a person who does not provide proof of being a commercial purchaser, as defined under § 82.62.

(c) Effective January 17, 1994, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products identified as being nonessential in § 82.66(c) or § 82.66(d) except as permitted under § 82.65(g).

(d) Except as permitted under § 82.65, effective January 1, 1994, no person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, in interstate commerce any product identified as being nonessential in § 82.70(a) or § 82.70(c).

(e) Except as permitted under § 82.65, effective January 1, 1994, no person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products specified in § 82.70(b) to a person who does not provide proof of being a commercial purchaser, as defined under § 82.62.

(f) Except as permitted under § 82.65(d), effective January 1, 1996, no person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, in interstate commerce any product identified as being nonessential in § 82.70(c)(ii).

(g) It is a violation of this subpart to sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, products effected by the provisions of § 82.68 if the seller knew or should have known that the purchaser was purchasing the product for a prohibited application.

(h) No person may sell or distribute, or offer to sell or distribute, in interstate commerce any of the products identified as being nonessential in § 82.66(f).
