
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart E - The Labeling of Products Using Ozone-Depleting Substances
###### ยง 82.102 Applicability.

(a) In the case of substances designated as class I or class II substances as of February 11, 1993, the applicable date of the requirements in this paragraph (a) is May 15, 1993. In the case of any substance designated as a class I or class II substance after February 11, 1993, the applicable date of the requirements in this paragraph (a) is one year after the designation of such substance as a class I or class II substance unless otherwise specified in the designation. On the applicable date indicated in this paragraph (a), the requirements of this subpart shall apply to the following containers and products except as exempted under paragraph (c) of this section:

(1) All containers in which a class I or class II substance is stored or transported.

(2) All products containing a class I substance.

(3) All products directly manufactured with a process that uses a class I substance, unless otherwise exempted by this subpart or, unless the Administrator determines for a particular product that there are no substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product that do not rely on the use of a class I substance, that reduce overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available. If the Administrator makes such a determination for a particular product, then the requirements of this subpart are effective for such product no later than January 1, 2015.

(b) Applicable January 1, 2015 in any case, or one year after any determination between May 15, 1993 and January 1, 2015, by the Administrator for a particular product that there are substitute products or manufacturing processes for such product that do not rely on the use of a class I or class II substance, that reduce the overall risk to human health and the environment, and that are currently or potentially available, the requirements of this subpart shall apply to the following:

(1) All products containing a class II substance.

(2) All products manufactured with a process that uses a class II substance.

(c) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to products manufactured prior to May 15, 1993, provided that the manufacturer submits documentation to EPA upon request showing that the product was manufactured prior to that date.
