
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart E - The Labeling of Products Using Ozone-Depleting Substances
###### ยง 82.106 Warning statement requirements.
####### Exemptions from warning label requirement.

(b)The following products need not bear a warning label:

(1) Products containing trace quantities of a controlled substance remaining as a residue or impurity due to a chemical reaction, and where the controlled substance serves no useful purpose in or for the product itself. However, if such product was manufactured using the controlled substance, the product is required to be labeled as a "product manufactured with" the controlled substance, unless otherwise exempted;

(2) Containers containing a controlled substance in which trace quantities of that controlled substance remain as a residue or impurity;

(3) Waste containing controlled substances or blends of controlled substances bound for discard;

(4) Products manufactured using methyl chloroform or CFC-113 by persons who can demonstrate and certify a 95% reduction in overall usage from their 1990 calendar year usage of methyl chloroform or CFC-113 as solvents during a twelve (12) month period ending within sixty (60) days of such certification or during the most recently completed calendar year. In calculating such reduction, persons may subtract from quantities used those quantities for which they possess accessible data that establishes the amount of methyl chloroform or CFC-113 transformed. Such subtraction must be performed for both the applicable twelve month period and the 1990 calendar year. If at any time future usage exceeds the 95% reduction, all products manufactured with methyl chloroform or CFC-113 as solvents by that person must be labeled immediately. No person may qualify for this exemption after May 15, 1994;

(5) Products intended only for export outside of the United States shall not be considered "products introduced into interstate commerce" provided such products are clearly designated as intended for export only;

(6) Products that are otherwise not subject to the requirements of this subpart that are being repaired, using a process that uses a controlled substance.

(7) Products, processes, or substitute chemicals undergoing research and development, by which a controlled substance is used. Such products must be labeled when they are introduced into interstate commerce.
