
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart E - The Labeling of Products Using Ozone-Depleting Substances
###### ยง 82.120 Petitions.
####### Adequate data.

(c)A petition shall be considered by the Agency to be supported by adequate data if it includes all of the following:

(1) A part clearly labeled "Section I.A." which contains the petitioner's full name, company or organization name, address and telephone number, the product that is the subject of the petition, and, in the case of a petition to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance from the labeling requirement, the manufacturer or manufacturers of that product.

(2) For petitions to temporarily exempt a product manufactured with a class I substance only, a part clearly labeled "Section I.A.T." which states the length of time for which an exemption is requested.

(3) A part clearly labeled "Section I.B." which includes the following statement, signed by the petitioner or an authorized representative:

"I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this petition and all attached documents, and that, based on my inquiry of those individuals immediately responsible for obtaining the information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information."

(4) A part clearly labeled "Section I.C." which fully explains the basis for the petitioner's request that EPA add the labeling requirements to or remove them from the product which is the subject of the petition, based specifically upon the technical facility or laboratory tests, literature, or economic analysis described in paragraphs (c) (5), (6) and (7) of this section.

(5) A part clearly labeled "Section II.A." which fully describes any technical facility or laboratory tests used to support the petitioner's claim.

(6) A part clearly labeled "Section II.B." which fully explains any values taken from literature or estimated on the basis of known information that are used to support the petitioner's claim.

(7) A part clearly labeled "Section II.C." which fully explains any economic analysis used to support the petitioner's claim.
