
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart E - The Labeling of Products Using Ozone-Depleting Substances
###### ยง 82.122 Certification, recordkeeping, and notice requirements.
####### Certification.

(a)(1) Persons claiming the exemption provided in ยง 82.106(b)(4) must submit a written certification to the following address: Labeling Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division, Office of Atmospheric Programs, 6205-T, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW., Washington DC 20460.

(2) The certification must contain the following information:

(i) The exact location of documents verifying calendar year 1990 usage and the 95% reduced usage during a twelve month period;

(ii) A description of the records maintained at that location;

(iii) A description of the type of system used to track usage;

(iv) An indication of which 12 month period reflects the 95% reduced usage, and;

(v) Name, address, and telephone number of a contact person.

(3) Persons who submit certifications postmarked on or before May 15, 1993, need not place warning labels on their products manufactured using CFC-113 or methyl chloroform as a solvent. Persons who submit certifications postmarked after May 15, 1993, must label their products manufactured using CFC-113 or methyl chloroform as a solvent for 14 days following such submittal of the certification.

(4) Persons certifying must also include a statement that indicates their future annual use will at no time exceed 5% of their 1990 usage.

(5) Certifications must be signed by the owner or a responsible corporate officer.

(6) If the Administrator determines that a person's certification is incomplete or that information supporting the exemption is inadequate, then products manufactured using CFC-113 or methyl chloroform as a solvent by such person must be labeled pursuant to ยง 82.106(a).
