
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### ยง 82.157 Appliance maintenance and leak repair.
####### Recordkeeping.

(l)All records identified in this paragraph must be kept for at least three years in electronic or paper format, unless otherwise specified.

(1) Owners or operators must determine the full charge of all appliances with 50 or more pounds of refrigerant and maintain the following information for each appliance until three years after the appliance is retired:

(i) The identification of the owner or operator of the appliance;

(ii) The address where the appliance is located;

(iii) The full charge of the appliance and the method for how the full charge was determined;

(iv) If using method 4 (using an established range) for determining full charge, records must include the range for the full charge of the appliance, its midpoint, and how the range was determined;

(v) Any revisions of the full charge, how they were determined, and the dates such revisions occurred.

(2) Owners or operators must maintain a record including the following information for each time an appliance with a full charge of 50 or more pounds is maintained, serviced, repaired, or disposed of, when applicable. If the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal is done by someone other than the owner or operator, that person must provide a record containing the following information, with the exception of (l)(2)(vii) and (viii) of this section, to the owner or operator:

(i) The identity and location of the appliance;

(ii) The date of the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal performed;

(iii) The part(s) of the appliance being maintained, serviced, repaired, or disposed;

(iv) The type of maintenance, service, repair, or disposal performed for each part;

(v) The name of the person performing the maintenance, service, repair, or disposal;

(vi) The amount and type of refrigerant added to, or in the case of disposal removed from, the appliance;

(vii) The full charge of the appliance; and

(viii) The leak rate and the method used to determine the leak rate (not applicable when disposing of the appliance, following a retrofit, installing a new appliance, or if the refrigerant addition qualifies as a seasonal variance).

(3) Owners or operators must keep records of leak inspections that include the date of inspection, the method(s) used to conduct the leak inspection, a list of the location of each leak that was identified, and a certification that all visible and accessible parts of the appliance were inspected. Technicians conducting leak inspections must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator of the appliance with documentation that meets these requirements.

(4) If using an automatic leak detection system, the owner or operator must maintain records regarding the installation and the annual audit and calibration of the system, a record of each date the monitoring system identified a leak, and the location of the leak.

(5) Owners or operators must maintain records of the dates and results of all initial and follow-up verification tests. Records must include the location of the appliance, the date(s) of the verification tests, the location(s) of all repaired leaks that were tested, the type(s) of verification test(s) used, and the results of those tests. Technicians conducting initial or follow-up verification tests must, upon conclusion of that service, provide the owner or operator of the appliance with documentation that meets these requirements.

(6) Owners or operators must maintain retrofit or retirement plans developed in accordance with paragraph (h) of this section.

(7) Owners or operators must maintain retrofit and/or extension requests submitted to EPA in accordance with paragraph (i) of this section.

(8) Owners or operators that suspend the deadlines in this section by mothballing an appliance must keep records documenting when the appliance was mothballed and when additional refrigerant was added to the appliance (or isolated component).

(9) Owners or operators who exclude purged refrigerants that are destroyed from annual leak rate calculations must maintain records to support the amount of refrigerant claimed as sent for destruction. Records must be based on a monitoring strategy that provides reliable data to demonstrate that the amount of refrigerant claimed to have been destroyed is not greater than the amount of refrigerant actually purged and destroyed and that the 98 percent or greater destruction efficiency is met. Records must include flow rate, quantity or concentration of the refrigerant in the vent stream, and periods of purge flow. Records must include:

(i) The identification of the facility and a contact person, including the address and telephone number;

(ii) A description of the appliance, focusing on aspects relevant to the purging of refrigerant and subsequent destruction;

(iii) A description of the methods used to determine the quantity of refrigerant sent for destruction and type of records that are being kept by the owners or operators where the appliance is located;

(iv) The frequency of monitoring and data-recording; and

(v) A description of the control device, and its destruction efficiency.

(10) Owners or operators that exclude additions of refrigerant due to seasonal variance from their leak rate calculation must maintain records stating that they are using the seasonal variance flexibility and documenting the amount added and removed under ยง 82.157(l)(2).

(11) Owners or operators that submit reports to EPA in accordance with paragraph (m) of this section must maintain copies of the submitted reports and any responses from EPA.
