
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### ยง 82.160 Approved equipment testing organizations.
####### 608reports@epa.gov

(a) Any equipment testing organization may apply for approval by the Administrator to certify equipment under the standards in ยง 82.158 and appendices B2, B3, B4, or C of this subpart. Applications must be sent to, or if containing confidential business information, mailed to: Section 608 Program Manager, Stratospheric Protection Division, Mail Code: 6205T, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(b) Applications for approval must include:

(1) A list of equipment present at the organization that will be used for equipment testing.

(2) Verification of the organization's expertise in equipment testing and the technical experience of the organization's personnel.

(3) Verification of the organization's knowledge of the standards and recordkeeping and reporting requirements of this subpart.

(4) A description of the organization's program for verifying the performance of certified recovery and/or recycling equipment manufactured over the long term, specifying whether retests of equipment or inspections of equipment at manufacturing facilities will be used.

(5) Verification that the organization has no conflict of interest and receives no direct or indirect financial benefit from the outcome of certification testing.

(6) Agreement to allow the Administrator access to records and personnel to verify the information contained in the application.

(c) Organizations may not certify equipment before receiving approval from EPA. If approval is denied under this section, the Administrator must give written notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.

(d) If an approved testing organization conducts certification tests in a way not consistent with the representations made in its application or with the provisions of this subpart, the Administrator may revoke approval in accordance with ยง 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
