
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### ยง 82.161 Technician certification.
####### Proof of Certification.

(4)Programs certifying technicians must provide technicians with identification cards in accordance with section (f) of appendix D of this subpart.

(5) Programs certifying technicians must maintain records in accordance with section (g) of appendix D of this subpart.

(6) Starting January 1, 2018, programs certifying technicians, excluding Federally-run programs, must publish online a list of all technicians they have certified on or after January 1, 2017. Certifying organizations must update these lists at least annually.

(i) The list must include the first name, middle initial, and last name of the certified technician, the technician's city of residence when taking the test, the type(s) of certification received, and the date each certification was received.

(ii) Programs certifying technicians must provide notice to technicians that such information will be published online in compliance with any other Federal, state or local regulations, and allow technicians to opt out of being included in such lists.

(7) If an approved program violates any of the above requirements, the Administrator may revoke approval in accordance with ยง 82.169. In such cases, the Administrator must give notice to the organization setting forth the basis for the determination.
