
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix F to Part 50 - Measurement Principle and Calibration Procedure for the Measurement of Nitrogen Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Gas Phase Chemiluminescence)
###### Procedure.

2.4

2.4.1 Assemble the calibration apparatus such as the typical one shown in Figure 2.

2.4.2 Insure that all flowmeters are calibrated under the conditions of use against a reliable standard such as a soap bubble meter or wet-test meter. All volumetric flowrates should be corrected to 25 &#xB0;C and 760 mm Hg. A discussion on the calibration of flowmeters is given in reference 13.

2.4.3 Install the permeation device in the constant temperature chamber. Provide a small fixed air flow (200-400 scm/min) across the device. The permeation device should always have a continuous air flow across it to prevent large buildup of NOin the system and a consequent restabilization period. Record the flowrate as FP. Allow the device to stabilize at the calibration temperature for at least 24 hours. The temperature must be adjusted and controlled to within +/-0.1 &#xB0;C or less of the calibration temperature as monitored with the temperature measuring device.

2.4.4 Precautions must be taken to remove Oand other contaminants from the NO pressure regulator and delivery system prior to the start of calibration to avoid any conversion of the standard NO to NO. Failure to do so can cause significant errors in calibration. This problem may be minimized by

(1) Carefully evacuating the regulator, when possible, after the regulator has been connected to the cylinder and before opening the cylinder valve;

(2) Thoroughly flushing the regulator and delivery system with NO after opening the cylinder valve;

(3) Not removing the regulator from the cylinder between calibrations unless absolutely necessary. Further discussion of these procedures is given in reference 13.

2.4.5 Select the operating range of the NO/NONOanalyzer to be calibrated. In order to obtain maximum precision and accuracy for NOcalibration, all three channels of the analyzer should be set to the same range. If operation of the NO and NOchannels on higher ranges is desired, subsequent recalibration of the NO and NOchannels on the higher ranges is recommended.

2.4.6 Connect the recorder output cable(s) of the NO/NO/NOanalyzer to the input terminals of the strip chart recorder(s). All adjustments to the analyzer should be performed based on the appropriate strip chart readings. References to analyzer responses in the procedures given below refer to recorder responses.

2.4.7 Switch the valve to vent the flow from the permeation device and adjust the diluent air flowrate, F, to provide zero air at the output manifold. The total air flow must exceed the total demand of the analyzer(s) connected to the output manifold to insure that no ambient air is pulled into the manifold vent. Allow the analyzer to sample zero air until stable NO, NO, and NOresponses are obtained. After the responses have stabilized, adjust the analyzer zero control(s).
