
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82 - Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
####### Exemptions:

4.7

4.7.1 Equpment intended for recovery only shall be exempt from sections 4.2 and 4.3.

5.1 The standard contaminated refrigerant sample shall have the characteristics specified in Table 1, except as provided in 5.2

5.2 Recovery equipment not rated for any specific contaminant can be tested with new or reclaimed refrigerant.

6.1 Self Contained Equipment Test Apparatus. The apparatus as shown in Figure 1 consists of a 3 cubic foot [0.085 m] mixing chamber with a conical-shaped bottom, although a larger mixing chamber is permissible. The size of the mixing chamber depends upon the size of the equipment. The outlet at the bottom of the cone and all restrictions and valves for liquid and vapor refrigerant lines in the test apparatus shall be a minimum of 0.375 in. [9.5 mm] inside diameter or equivalent. The minimum inside diameter for large equipment for use on chillers shall be 1.5 in. [38 mm.]. The mixing chamber shall contain various ports for receiving liquid refrigerant, oil, and contaminants. A recirculating line connected from the bottom outlet through a recirculating pump and then to a top vapor port shall be provided for stirring of the mixture. Isolation valves may be required for the pump. Alternative stirring means may be used if demonstrated to be equally effective.

6.1.1 For liquid refrigerant feed, the liquid valve is opened. For vapor refrigerant feed, the vapor valve is opened and refrigerant passes through an evaporator coil. Flow is controlled by a thermostatic expansion valve to create 5 F [3 &#xB0;C] superheat at an evaporator temperature of 70 F +/-3 F[21 &#xB0;C+/-2&#xB0;]. The evaporator coil or equivalent evaporator means shall be either sized large enough for the largest system or be sized for each system.

6.1.2 An alternative method for vapor refrigerant feed is to pass through a boiler and then an automatic pressure regulating valve set at refrigerant saturation pressure at 75 F +/-3 F [24 &#xB0;C +/-2 &#xB0;C].

6.2 System Dependent Equipment Test Apparatus. This test apparatus is to be used for final recovery vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment.
