
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82 - Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
####### See Figure 2.

6.2.1 The test apparatus shown in Figure 2 consists of a complete refrigeration system. The manufacturer shall identify the refrigerants to be tested. The test apparatus can be modified to facilitate operation or testing of the system dependent equipment if the modifications to the apparatus are specifically described within the manufacturer's literature. () Ainch [6.3 mm] balance line shall be connected across the test apparatus between the high and low pressure sides, with an isolation valve located at the connection to the compressor high side. Ainch [6.3 mm] access port with a valve core shall be located in the balance line for the purpose of measuring final recovery vacuum at the conclusion of the test.

7.1 Contaminant removal and performance testing shall be conducted at 75 F +/-2 F [23.9 &#xB0;C +/-1.1 &#xB0;C].

7.1.1 The equipment shall be prepared for operation per the instruction manual.

7.1.2 The contaminated sample batch shall consist of not less than the sum of the amounts required to complete steps 7.1.2.2 and 7.1.2.3 below.

7.1.2.1 A liquid sample shall be drawn from the mixing chamber prior to starting the test to assure quality control of the mixing process.

7.1.2.2 Vapor refrigerant feed testing, if elected, shall normally be processed first. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions of condensing temperature and/or storage tank pressure, the vapor feed recovery rate shall be measured. One method is to start measuring the vapor refrigerant recovery rate when 85% of refrigerant remains in the mixing chamber and continue for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.2. If liquid feed is not elected, complete Step 7.1.2.4.

7.1.2.3 Liquid refrigerant feed testing, if elected, shall be processed next. After the equipment reaches stabilized conditions, the liquid feed recovery rate shall be measured. One method is to wait 2 minutes after starting liquid feed and then measure the liquid refrigerant recovery rate for a period of time sufficient to achieve the accuracy in 9.1. Continue liquid recovery operation as called for in 7.1.2.4.

7.1.2.4 Continue recovery operation until all liquid is removed from the mixing chamber and vapor is removed to the point where the equipment shuts down per automatic means or is manually stopped per the operating instructions.

7.1.2.5 After collecting the first contaminated refrigerant sample batch, the liquid and vapor value of the apparatus shall be closed and the mixing chamber pressure recorded after 1 minute as required in 9.5. After preparing a second contaminated refrigerant sample batch, continue recovery until the storage container reaches 80% liquid fill level. After recycling and measuring the recycle rate per section 7.1.3, set this container aside for the vapor sample in 8.2.2.

7.1.2.6 Interruptions in equipment operations as called for in instruction manual are allowable.

7.1.3 Recycle as called for in equipment operating instructions. Determine recycle rate by appropriate means as required in 9.3.

7.1.4 Repeat steps 7.1.2, 7.1.2.4, and 7.1.3 with contaminated refrigerant sample until equipment indicator(s) show need to change filter(s). It will not be necessary to repeat the recycle rate determination in 7.1.3.

7.1.4.1 For equipment with a multiple pass recirculating filter system, analyze the contents of the previous storage container.

7.1.4.2 For equipment with a single pass filter system, analyze the contents of the current storage container.

7.1.5 Refrigerant loss due to the equipment's non-condensable gas purge shall be determined by appropriate means. (See Section 9.4.)

7.2 System Dependent Equipment. This procedure shall be used for vacuum rating of all system dependent equipment. Liquid refrigerant recovery rate, vapor refrigerant recovery rate, and recycle rate are not tested on system dependent systems.

7.2.1 The apparatus operation and testing shall be conducted at 75 F +/-2 F. [23.9 &#xB0;C. +/-/1.1. &#xB0;C.].

7.2.2 The apparatus shall be charged with refrigerant per its system design specifications.

7.2.3 For measurement of final recovery vacuum as required in 9.5, first shut the balance line isolation valve and wait 1 minute for pressure to balance. Then connect and operate the recovery system per manufacturers recommendations. When the evacuation is completed, open the balance line isolation valve and measure the pressure in the balance line.

8.1 The referee test methods for the various contaminants are summarized in the following paragraphs. Detailed test procedures are included in Appendix A "Test Procedures for ARI STD 700." If alternate test methods are employed, the user must be able to demonstrate that they produce results equivalent to the specified referee method.
