
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82 - Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
####### Should, Recommended,,It is Recommended,

3.9.2or"Should", "recommended", is used to indicate provisions which are not mandatory but which are desirable as good practice.

4.1 The equipment manufacturer shall provide operating instructions, necessary maintenance procedures, and source information for replacement parts and repair.

4.2 The equipment shall indicate when any filter/drier(s) needs replacement. This requirement can be met by use of a moisture transducer and indicator light, by use of a sight glass/moisture indicator, or by some measurement of the amount of refrigerant processed such as a flow meter or hour meter. Written instructions such as "to change the filter every 400 pounds, or every 30 days" shall not be acceptable except for equipment in large systems where the Liquid Recovery Rate is greater than 25 lbs/min [11.3 Kg/min] where the filter/drier(s) would be changed for every job.

4.3 The equipment shall either automatically purge non-condensables if the rated level is exceeded or alert the operator that the non-condensable level has been exceeded. While air purge processes are subject to the requirements of this section, there is no specific requirement to include an air purge process for "recycle" equipment.

4.4 The equipment's refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging shall not be exceeded 5% by weight of total recovered refrigerant. (See Section 9.4)

4.5 Internal hose assemblies shall not exceed a permeation rate of 12 pounds mass per square foot [5.8 g/cm] of internal surface per year at a temperature of 120 F [48.8 &#xB0;C] for any designated refrigerant.

4.6 The equipment shall be evaluated at 75 F [24 &#xB0;C] per 7.1. Normal operating conditions range from 50 &#xB0;F to 104 F [10 &#xB0;C to 40 &#xB0;C].
