
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82 - Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
####### Type of equipment.

11.1The type of equipment shall be as listed:

11.2 Designated refrigerants and the following as applicable for each:

11.3 The nameplate shall also conform to the labeling requirements established for certified recycling and recovery equipment established at 40 CFR 82.158(h).

Particulate Used in Standard Contaminated Refrigerant Sample.

1.1 The particulate material pm will be a blend of 50% coarse air cleaner dust as received, and 50% retained on a 200-mesh screen. The coarse air cleaner dust is available from: AC Spark Plug Division, General Motors Corporation, Flint, Michigan.

To prepare the blend of contaminant, first wet screen a quantity of coarse air cleaner dust on a 200-mesh screen (particle retention 74 pm). This is done by placing a portion of the dust on a 200-mesh screen and running water through the screen while stirring the dust with the fingers. The fine contaminant particles passing through the screen are discarded. The +200 mesh particles collected on the screen are removed and dried for one hour at 230 F [110 &#xB0;C]. The blend of standard contaminant is prepared by mixing 50% by weight of coarse air cleaner dust as received after drying for one hour at 230 F [110 &#xB0;C] with 50% by weight of the +200 mesh screened dust.

1.3 The coarse air cleaner dust as received and the blend used as the standard contaminant have the following approximate particle size analysis: Wt. % in various size ranges, pm.
