
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82 - Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
####### Acidity.

8.5

8.5.1 The acidity test uses the titration principle to detect any compound that is highly soluble in water and ionizes as an acid. The test method shall be that described in Appendix A. "Test Procedures for ARI-700." The test may not be suitable for determination of high molecular weight organic acids; however these acids will be found in the high boiling residue test outlined in Section 5.7. The test requires about a 100 to 120 gram sample and has a low detection limit of 0.1 ppm by weight as HC1.

8.6 High Boiling Residue.

8.6.1 High boiling residue will be determined by measuring the residue of a standard volume of refrigerant after evaporation. The refrigerant sample shall be evaporated at room temperature or a temperature 50 F [10&#xB0;.0C], above the boiling point of the sample using a Goetz tube as specified in Appendix A "Test Procedures for ARI-700." Oils and or organic acids will be captured by this method.

8.6.2 The value for high boiling residue shall be expressed as a percentage by volume.

8.7 Particulates/Solids.

8.7.1 A measured amount of sample is evaporated from a Goetz bulb under controlled temperature conditions. The particulates/solids shall be determined by visual examination of the empty Goetz bulb after the sample has evaporated completely. Presence of dirt, rust or other particulate contamination is reported a "fail." For details of this test method, refer to Appendix B "Test Procedures for ARI-700."

8.8 Non-Condensables

8.8.1 A vapor phase sample shall be used for determination of non-condensables. Non-condensable gases consist primarily of air accumulated in the vapor phase of refrigerant containing tanks. The solubility of air in the refrigerants liquid phase is extremely low and air is not significant as a liquid phase contaminant. The presence of non-condensable gases may reflect poor quality control in transferring refrigerants to storage tanks and cylinders.

8.8.2 The test method shall be gas chromatography with a thermal conductivity detector as described in Appendix A "Test Procedures for ARI-700."

8.8.2.1 The Federal Specification for "Fluorocarbon Refrigerants," BB-F-1421B, dated March 5, 1992, section 4.4.2 (perchloroethylene method) is an acceptable alternate test method.

8.8.3 Report the level of non-condensable as percent by volume.

9.1 The liquid refrigerant recovery rate shall be expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] and measured by weight change at the mixing chamber (See Figure 1) divided by elapsed time to an accuracy within .02 lbs/min. [.009 kg/min]. Ratings using the Push/Pull method shall be identified "Push/Pull". Equipment may be rated by both methods.

9.2 The vapor refrigerant recovery rate shall be expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] and measured by weight change at the mixing chamber (See Figure 1) divided by elapsed time to an accuracy within .02 lbs/min. [.0.009 kg/min].

9.3 The recycle rate is defined in 3.7 and expressed in pounds per minute [kg/min] of flow and shall be per ASHRAE 41.7-84 "Procedure For Fluid Measurement Of Gases" or ASHRAE 41.8-89 "Standard Method of Flow of Fluids-Liquids."

9.3.1 For equipment using multipass recycling or a separate sequence, the recycle rate shall be determined by dividing the net weight W of the refrigerant to be recycled by the actual time T required to recycle the refrigerant. Any set-up or operator interruptions shall not be included in the time T. The accuracy of the recycle rate shall be within .02 lbs/min. [.009 kg/min].

9.3.2 If no separate recycling sequence is used, the recycle rate shall be the higher of the vapor refrigerant recovery rate or the liquid refrigerant recovery rate. The recycle rate shall match a process which leads to contaminant levels in 9.6. Specifically, a recovery rate determined from bypassing a contaminant removal device cannot be used as a recycle rate when the contaminant levels in 9.6 are determined by passing the refrigerant through the containment removal device.

9.4 Refrigerant loss due to non-condensable purging shall be less than 5%. This rating shall be expressed as "passed" if less than 5%.

This calculation will be based upon net loss of non-condensables and refrigerant due to the purge divided by the initial net content. The net loss shall be determined by weighing before and after the purge, by collecting purged gases, or an equivalent method.

9.5 The final recovery vacuum shall be the mixing chamber pressure called for in 7.1.2.5 expressed in inches of mercury vacuum, [mm Hg or kP]. The accuracy of the measurement shall be within +/-.1 inch [+/-2.5mm] of Hg and rounding down to the nearest whole number.

9.6 The contaminant levels remaining after testing shall be published as follows:

9.7 Product Literature: Except as provided under product labelling in Section 11. performance ratings per 9.1, 9.2, 9.3, and 9.5 must be grouped together and shown for all listed refrigerants (11.2) subject to limitations of 9.8. Wherever any contaminant levels per 9.6 are rated, all ratings in 9.6 must be shown for all listed refrigerants subject to limitations of 9.8. The type of equipment in 11.1 must be included with either grouping. Optional ratings in 9.8 need not be shown.

9.8 Ratings shall include all of the parameters for each designed refrigerant in 11.2 as shown in Tables 2 and 3.

10.1 Any equipment tested shall produce contaminant levels not higher than the published ratings. The liquid refrigerant recovery rate, vapor refrigerant recovery rate, final recovery vacuum and recycle rate shall not be less than the published ratings.
