
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart F - Recycling and Emissions Reduction
###### Appendix B1 to Subpart F of Part 82 - Performance of Refrigerant Recovery, Recycling and/or Reclaim Equipment
####### Liquid Phase Sample.

8.2.3A liquid phase sample is required for all tests listed in this standard, except the test for non-condensables.

8.2.3.1 Place an empty sample cylinder with the valve open in an oven at 230 F [110 &#xB0;C] for one hour. Remove it from the oven while hot, immediately connect to an evacuation system and evacuate to less than 1mm. mercury (1000 microns). Close the valve and allow it to cool.

8.2.3.2 The valve and lines from the unit to be sampled shall be clean and dry. Connect the line to the sample cylinder loosely. Purge through the loose connection. Make the connection tight at the end of the purge period. Take the sample as a liquid by chilling the sample cylinder slightly. Accurate analysis requires that the sample container be filled to at least 60% by volume; however under no circumstances should the cylinder be filled to more than 80% by volume. This can be accomplished by weighing the empty cylinder and then the cylinder with refrigerant. When the desired amount of refrigerant has been collected, close the valve(s) and disconnect the sample cylinder immediately.

8.2.3.3 Check the sample cylinder for leaks and record the gross weight.
