
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix F to Part 50 - Measurement Principle and Calibration Procedure for the Measurement of Nitrogen Dioxide in the Atmosphere (Gas Phase Chemiluminescence)
###### Frequency of calibration.

3.The frequency of calibration, as well as the number of points necessary to establish the calibration curve and the frequency of other performance checks, will vary from one analyzer to another. The user's quality control program should provide guidelines for initial establishment of these variables and for subsequent alteration as operational experience is accumulated. Manufacturers of analyzers should include in their instruction/operation manuals information and guidance as to these variables and on other matters of operation, calibration, and quality control.

1. A. Fontijn, A. J. Sabadell, and R. J. Ronco, "Homogeneous Chemiluminescent Measurement of Nitric Oxide with Ozone," Anal. Chem., 42, 575 (1970).

2. D. H. Stedman, E. E. Daby, F. Stuhl, and H. Niki, "Analysis of Ozone and Nitric Oxide by a Chemiluminiscent Method in Laboratory and Atmospheric Studies of Photochemical Smog," J. Air Poll. Control Assoc., 22, 260 (1972).

3. B. E. Martin, J. A. Hodgeson, and R. K. Stevens, "Detection of Nitric Oxide Chemiluminescence at Atmospheric Pressure," Presented at 164th National ACS Meeting, New York City, August 1972.

4. J. A. Hodgeson, K. A. Rehme, B. E. Martin, and R. K. Stevens, "Measurements for Atmospheric Oxides of Nitrogen and Ammonia by Chemiluminescence," Presented at 1972 APCA Meeting, Miami, FL, June 1972.

5. R. K. Stevens and J. A. Hodgeson, "Applications of Chemiluminescence Reactions to the Measurement of Air Pollutants," Anal. Chem., 45, 443A (1973).

6. L. P. Breitenbach and M. Shelef, "Development of a Method for the Analysis of NOand NHby NO-Measuring Instruments," J. Air Poll. Control Assoc., 23, 128 (1973).

7. A. M. Winer, J. W. Peters, J. P. Smith, and J. N. Pitts, Jr., "Response of Commercial Chemiluminescent NO-NOAnalyzers to Other Nitrogen-Containing Compounds," Environ. Sci. Technol., 8, 1118 (1974).

8. K. A. Rehme, B. E. Martin, and J. A. Hodgeson, Tentative Method for the Calibration of Nitric Oxide, Nitrogen Dioxide, and Ozone Analyzers by Gas Phase Titration," EPA-R2-73-246, March 1974.

9. J. A. Hodgeson, R. K. Stevens, and B. E. Martin, "A Stable Ozone Source Applicable as a Secondary Standard for Calibration of Atmospheric Monitors," ISA Transactions, 11, 161 (1972).

10. A. E. O'Keeffe and G. C. Ortman, "Primary Standards for Trace Gas Analysis," Anal. Chem., 38, 760 (1966).

11. F. P. Scaringelli, A. E. O'Keeffe, E. Rosenberg, and J. P. Bell, "Preparation of Known Concentrations of Gases and Vapors with Permeation Devices Calibrated Gravimetrically," Anal. Chem., 42, 871 (1970).

12. H. L. Rook, E. E. Hughes, R. S. Fuerst, and J. H. Margeson, "Operation Characteristics of NOPermeation Devices," Presented at 167th National ACS Meeting, Los Angeles, CA, April 1974.

13. E. C. Ellis, "Technical Assistance Document for the Chemiluminescence Measurement of Nitrogen Dioxide," EPA-E600/4-75-003 (Available in draft form from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Department E (MD-76), Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Research Triangle Park, NC 27711).

14. A Procedure for Establishing Traceability of Gas Mixtures to Certain National Bureau of Standards Standard Reference Materials. EPA-600/7-81-010, Joint publication by NBS and EPA. Available from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring Systems Laboratory (MD-77), Research Triangle Park, NC 27711, May 1981.
