
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix G to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Lead in Total Suspended Particulate Matter
###### e.g.,

All plasticware (Nalgene) and glassware used in the extraction procedures is soaked in 1 percent HNO(v/v) for at least 24 hours and rinsed with reagent water prior to use. All mechanical pipettes used must be calibrated to +/-1 percent accuracy and &#x2264;1 percent RSD at a minimum of once every 6 months.

10.1 Sample Preparation-Heated Ultrasonic Bath

10.1.1 Extraction solution (1.03M HNO+ 2.23M HCl). Prepare by adding 500 mL of deionized water to a 1000 mL flask, adding 64.4 mL of concentrated HNOand 182 mL of concentrated HCl, shaking to mix, allowing solution to cool, diluting to volume with reagent water, and inverting several times to mix. Extraction solution must be prepared at least weekly.

10.1.2 Use a ceramic knife and non-metal ruler, or other cutting device that will not contaminate the filter with Pb. Cut ainch x 8 inch strip from the glass fiber or quartz filter by cutting a strip from the edge of the filter where it has been folded along the 10 inch side at least 1 inch from the right or left side to avoid the un-sampled area covered by the filter holder. The filters must be carefully handled to avoid dislodging deposits.

10.1.3 Using plastic tweezers, roll the filter strip up in a coil and place the rolled strip in the bottom of a labeled 50 mL extraction tube. In a fume hood, add 15.00 +/-0.15 mL of the extraction solution (see Section 10.1.1) using a calibrated mechanical pipette. Ensure that the extraction solution completely covers the filter strip.

10.1.4 Loosely cap the 50 mL extraction tube and place it upright in a plastic rack. When all samples have been prepared, place the racks in an uncovered heated ultrasonic water bath that has been preheated to 80 +/-5 &#xB0;C and ensure that the water level in the ultrasonic is above the level of the extraction solution in the tubes but well below the level of the extraction tube caps to avoid contamination. Start the ultrasonic bath and allow the unit to run for 1 hour +/-5 minutes at 80 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

10.1.5 Remove the rack(s) from the ultrasonic bath and allow the racks to cool.

10.1.6 Add 25.00 +/-0.25 mL of D.I. water with a calibrated mechanical pipette to bring the sample to a final volume of 40.0 +/-0.4 mL. Tightly cap the tubes, and vortex mix or shake vigorously. Place the extraction tubes in an appropriate holder and centrifuge for 20 minutes at 2500 revolutions per minute (RPM).

CAUTION-Make sure that the centrifuge holder has a flat bottom to support the flat bottomed extraction tubes.

10.1.7 Pour an aliquot of the solution into an autosampler vial for ICP-MS analysis to avoid the potential for contamination. Do not pipette an aliquot of solution into the autosampler vial.

10.1.8 Decant the extract to a clean tube, cap tightly, and store the sample extract at ambient laboratory temperature. Extracts may be stored for up to 6 months from the date of extraction.

10.2 47 mm PTFE Filter Extraction-Heated Ultrasonic Bath

10.2.1 Extraction solution (1.03M HNO+ 2.23M HCl). Prepare by adding 500 mL of D.I. water to a 1000mL flask, adding 64.4 mL of concentrated HNOand 182 mL of concentrated HCl, shaking to mix, allowing solution to cool, diluting to volume with reagent water, and inverting several times to mix. Extraction solution must be prepared at least weekly.

10.2.2 Using plastic tweezers, bend the PTFE filter into a U-shape and insert the filter into a labeled 50 mL extraction tube with the particle loaded side facing the center of the tube. Gently push the filter to the bottom of the extraction tube. In a fume hood, add 25.00 +/-0.15 mL of the extraction solution (see Section 10.2.1) using a calibrated mechanical pipette. Ensure that the extraction solution completely covers the filter.

10.2.3 Loosely cap the 50 mL extraction tube and place it upright in a plastic rack. When all samples have been prepared, place the racks in an uncovered heated ultrasonic water bath that has been preheated to 80 +/-5 &#xB0;C and ensure that the water level in the ultrasonic is above the level of the extraction solution in the tubes, but well below the level of the extraction tube caps to avoid contamination. Start the ultrasonic bath and allow the unit to run for 1 hour +/-5 minutes at 80 +/-5 &#xB0;C.

10.2.4 Remove the rack(s) from the ultrasonic bath and allow the racks to cool.

10.2.5 Add 25.00 +/-0.25 mL of D.I. water with a calibrated mechanical pipette to bring the sample to a final volume of 50.0 +/-0.4 mL. Tightly cap the tubes, and vortex mix or shake vigorously. Allow samples to stand for one hour to allow complete diffusion of the extracted Pb. The sample is now ready for analysis.

Note: Although PTFE filters have only been extracted using the ultrasonic extraction procedure in the development of this FRM, PTFE filters are inert and have very low Pb content. No issues are expected with the extraction of PTFE filters using the heated block digestion method. However, prior to using PTFE filters in the heated block extraction method, extraction method performance test using CRMs must be done to confirm performance (see Section 8.9).
