
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix G to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Lead in Total Suspended Particulate Matter
###### e.g.,

All plasticware (Nalgene) and glassware used in the extraction procedures is soaked in 1 percent HNOfor at least 24 hours and rinsed with reagent water prior to use. All mechanical pipettes used must be calibrated to +/-1 percent accuracy and &#x2264;1 percent RSD at a minimum of once every 6 months.

11.1 Sample Preparation-Hot Block Digestion

11.1.1 Extraction solution (1:19, v/v HNO). Prepare by adding 500 mL of D.I. water to a 1000 mL flask, adding 50 mL of concentrated HNO, shaking to mix, allowing solution to cool, diluting to volume with reagent water, and inverting several times to mix. The extraction solution must be prepared at least weekly.

11.1.2 Use a ceramic knife and non-metal ruler, or other cutting device that will not contaminate the filter with Pb. Cut a 1-inch x 8-inch strip from the glass fiber or quartz filter. Cut a strip from the edge of the filter where it has been folded along the 10-inch side at least 1 inch from the right or left side to avoid the un-sampled area covered by the filter holder. The filters must be carefully handled to avoid dislodging particle deposits.

11.1.3 Using plastic tweezers, roll the filter strip up in a coil and place the rolled strip in the bottom of a labeled 50 mL extraction tube. In a fume hood, add 20.0 +/-0.15 mL of the extraction solution (see Section 11.1.1) using a calibrated mechanical pipette. Ensure that the extraction solution completely covers the filter strip.

11.1.4 Place the extraction tube in the heated block digester and cover with a disposable polyethylene ribbed watch glass. Heat at 95 +/-5 &#xB0;C for 1 hour and ensure that the sample does not evaporate to dryness. For proper heating, adjust the temperature control of the hot block such that an uncovered vessel containing 50 mL of water placed in the center of the hot block can be maintained at a temperature approximately, but no higher than 85C. Once the vessel is covered with a ribbed watch glass, the temperature of the water will increase to approximately 95 &#xB0;C.

11.1.5 Remove the rack(s) from the heated block digester and allow the samples to cool.

11.1.6 Bring the samples to a final volume of 50 mL with D.I. water. Tightly cap the tubes, and vortex mix or shake vigorously for at least 5 seconds. Set aside (with the filter strip in the tube) for at least 30 minutes to allow the HNOtrapped in the filter to diffuse into the extraction solution.

11.1.7 Shake thoroughly (with the filter strip in the digestion tube) and let settle for at least one hour. The sample is now ready for analysis.

12.1 Follow the instrument manufacturer's startup procedures for the ICP-MS.

12.2 Set instrument parameters to the appropriate operating conditions as presented in the instrument manufacturer's operating manual and allow the instrument to warm up for at least 30 minutes.

12.3 Calibrate the instrument per Section 9.0 of this method.

12.4 Verify the instrument is suitable for analysis as defined in Sections 9.2 and 9.3.

12.5 As directed in Section 8.0 of this method, analyze an ICV and ICB immediately after the calibration curve followed by a LLCV, then CCV and CCB. The acceptance requirements for these parameters are presented in Section 8.8.

12.6 Analyze a CCV and a CCB after every 10 extracted samples.

12.7 Analyze a LLCV, CCV and CCB at the end of the analysis.

12.8 A typical sample run will include field samples, field sample duplicates, spiked field sample extracts, serially diluted samples, the set of QC samples listed in Section 8.8 above, and one or more CRMs or SRMs.

12.9 Any samples that exceed the highest standard in the calibration curve must be diluted and reanalyzed so that the diluted concentration falls within the calibration curve.

13.0 Results

13.1 The filter results must be initially reported in µg/mL as analyzed. Any additional dilutions must be accounted for. The internal standard recoveries must be included in the result calculation; this is done by the ICP-MS software for most commercially-available instruments. Final results should be reported in µg Pb/mto three significant figures as follows:

The calculation assumes the use of a standard 8-inch x 10-inch TSP filter which has a sampled area of 9-inch x 7-inch (63.0 in) due to the-inch filter holder border around the outer edge. The-inch x 8-inch strip has a sampled area of-inch x 7-inch (5.25 in). The 1-inch x 8-inch strip has a sampled area of 1-inch x 7-inch (7.0 in). If filter lot blanks are provided for analysis, refer to Section 7.7.5 of this method for guidance on testing.

Information in this section is an example of typical performance results achieved by this method. Actual performance must be demonstrated by each individual laboratory and instrument.

14.1 Performance data have been collected to estimate MDLs for this method. MDLs were determined in accordance with 40 CFR 136, Appendix B. MDLs were estimated for glass fiber, quartz, and PTFE filters using seven reagent/filter blank solutions spiked with low level Pb at three times the estimated MDL of 0.001 µg/mL. Tables 1, 3, and 5 shows the MDLs estimated using both the ultrasonic and hot block extraction methods for glass fiber and quartz filters and the ultrasonic method for PTFE filters. The MDLs are well below the EPA requirement of five percent of the current Pb NAAQS or 0.0075 µg/m. These MDLs are provided to demonstrate the adequacy of the method's performance for Pb in TSP. Each laboratory using this method should determine MDLs in their laboratory and verify them annually. It is recommended that laboratories also perform the optional iterative procedure in 40 CFR 136, Appendix B to verify the reasonableness of the estimated MDL and subsequent MDL determinations.

14.2 Extraction method recovery tests with glass fiber and quartz filter strips, and PTFE filters spiked with NIST SRMs were performed using the ultrasonic/HNOand HCl filter extraction methods and measurement of the dissolved Pb with ICP-MS. Tables 2, 4, and 6 show recoveries obtained with these SRM. The recoveries for all SRMs were ≥90 percent at the 95 percent confidence level.

15.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity and/or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Numerous opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operations. Whenever feasible, laboratory personnel should use pollution prevention techniques to address their waste generation. The sources of pollution generated with this procedure are waste acid extracts and Pb-containing solutions.
