
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart G - Significant New Alternatives Policy Program
###### ยง 82.170 Purpose and scope.

(a) The purpose of these regulations in this subpart is to implement section 612 of the Clean Air Act, as amended, regarding the safe alternatives policy on the acceptability of substitutes for ozone-depleting compounds. This program will henceforth be referred to as the "Significant New Alternatives Policy" (SNAP) program. The objectives of this program are to identify substitutes for ozone-depleting compounds, to evaluate the acceptability of those substitutes, to promote the use of those substitutes believed to present lower overall risks to human health and the environment, relative to the class I and class II compounds being replaced, as well as to other substitutes for the same end-use, and to prohibit the use of those substitutes found, based on the same comparisons, to increase overall risks.

(b) The regulations in this subpart describe persons and substitutes subject to reporting requirements under the SNAP program and explain preparation and submission of notices and petitions on substitutes. The regulations also establish Agency procedures for reviewing and processing EPA's determinations regarding notices and petitions on substitutes. Finally, the regulations prohibit the use of alternatives which EPA has determined may have adverse effects on human health or the environment where EPA has identified alternatives in particular industrial use sectors that on an overall basis, reduce risk to human health and the environment and are currently or potentially available. EPA will only prohibit substitutes where it has identified other substitutes for a specific application that are acceptable and are currently or potentially available.

(c) Notifications, petitions and other materials requested shall be sent to: SNAP Document Control Officer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (6205-J), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.
