
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix I to Part 50 - Interpretation of the 8-Hour Primary and Secondary National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone
###### Design Values for Primary and Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone.
####### Principle.

2

2.1 An air sampler draws ambient air at a constant flow rate into a specially shaped inlet where the suspended particulate matter is inertially separated into one or more size fractions within the PMsize range. Each size fraction in the PMsize range is then collected on a separate filter over the specified sampling period. The particle size discrimination characteristics (sampling effectiveness and 50 percent cutpoint) of the sampler inlet are prescribed as performance specifications in part 53 of this chapter.

2.2 Each filter is weighed (after moisture equilibration) before and after use to determine the net weight (mass) gain due to collected PM. The total volume of air sampled, corrected to EPA reference conditions (25 C, 101.3 kPa), is determined from the measured flow rate and the sampling time. The mass concentration of PMin the ambient air is computed as the total mass of collected particles in the PMsize range divided by the volume of air sampled, and is expressed in micrograms per standard cubic meter (µg/std m). For PMsamples collected at temperatures and pressures significantly different from EPA reference conditions, these corrected concentrations sometimes differ substantially from actual concentrations (in micrograms per actual cubic meter), particularly at high elevations. Although not required, the actual PMconcentration can be calculated from the corrected concentration, using the average ambient temperature and barometric pressure during the sampling period.

2.3 A method based on this principle will be considered a reference method only if (a) the associated sampler meets the requirements specified in this appendix and the requirements in part 53 of this chapter, and (b) the method has been designated as a reference method in accordance with part 53 of this chapter.
