
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart G - Significant New Alternatives Policy Program
###### ยง 82.178 Information required to be submitted.
####### Toxicity data.

(7)Health and safety studies on the effects of a substitute, its components, its impurities, and its degradation products on any organism (e.g., humans, mammals, fish, wildlife, and plants). For tests on mammals, the Agency requires a minimum submission of the following tests to characterize substitute risks: A range-finding study that considers the appropriate exposure pathway for the specific use (e.g., oral ingestion, inhalation, etc.), and a 90-day subchronic repeated dose study in an appropriate rodent species. For certain substitutes, a cardiotoxicity study is also required. Additional mammalian toxicity tests may be identified based on the substitute and application in question. To sufficiently characterize aquatic toxicity concerns, both acute and chronic toxicity data for a variety of species are required. For this purpose, the Agency requires a minimum data set as described in "Guidelines for Deriving Numerical National Water Quality Criteria for the Protection of Aquatic Organisms and their Uses," which is available through the National Technical Information Service (#PB 85-227049). Other relevant information and data summaries, such as the Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS), should also be submitted. To assist in locating any studies previously submitted to EPA and referred to, but not included in a SNAP submission, the submitter must provide citations for the date, type of submission, and EPA Office to which they were submitted, to help EPA locate these quickly.
