
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT AND ASSESSING THE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF EPA ACTIONS
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for EPA Actions Subject to NEPA
###### ยง 6.103 Responsibilities of the NEPA and Responsible Officials.

(a) The NEPA Official will:

(1) Ensure EPA's compliance with NEPA pursuant to 40 CFR 1507.2(a) and the regulations in subparts A through C of this part.

(2) Act as EPA's liaison with the CEQ and other federal agencies, state and local governments, and federally-recognized Indian tribes on matters of policy and administrative procedures regarding compliance with NEPA.

(3) Approve procedural deviations from subparts A through C of this part.

(4) Monitor the overall timeliness and quality of EPA's compliance with subparts A through C of this part.

(5) Advise the Administrator on NEPA-related actions that involve more than one EPA office, are highly controversial, are nationally significant, or establish new EPA NEPA-related policy.

(6) Support the Administrator by providing policy guidance on NEPA-related issues.

(7) Assist EPA's Responsible Officials with establishing and maintaining adequate administrative procedures to comply with subparts A through C of this part, performing their NEPA duties, and training personnel and applicants involved in the environmental review process.

(8) Consult with Responsible Officials and CEQ regarding proposed changes to subpart A through C of this part, including:

(i) The addition, amendment, or deletion of a categorical exclusion, or

(ii) Changes to the listings of types of actions that normally require the preparation of an EA or EIS.

(9) Determine whether proposed changes are appropriate, and if so, coordinate with CEQ, pursuant to 40 CFR 1507.3, and initiate a process to amend this part.

(b) The Responsible Official will:

(1) Ensure EPA's compliance with the CEQ regulations and subparts A through C of this part for proposed actions.

(2) Ensure that environmental reviews are conducted on proposed actions at the earliest practicable point in EPA's decision-making process and in accordance with the provisions of subparts A through C of this part.

(3) Ensure, to the extent practicable, early and continued involvement of interested federal agencies, state and local governments, federally-recognized Indian tribes, and affected applicants in the environmental review process.

(4) Coordinate with the NEPA Official and other Responsible Officials, as appropriate, on resolving issues involving EPA-wide NEPA policy and procedures (including the addition, amendment, or deletion of a categorical exclusion and changes to the listings of the types of actions that normally requires the preparation of an EA or EIS) and/or unresolved conflicts with other federal agencies, state and local governments, and federally-recognized Indian tribes, and/or advising the Administrator when necessary.

(5) Coordinate with other Responsible Officials, as appropriate, on NEPA-related actions involving their specific interests.

(6) Consistent with national NEPA guidance, provide specific policy guidance, as appropriate, and ensure that the Responsible Official's office establishes and maintains adequate administrative procedures to comply with subparts A through C of this part.

(7) Upon request of an applicant and consistent with 40 CFR 1501.8, set time limits on the NEPA review appropriate to individual proposed actions.

(8) Make decisions relating to the preparation of the appropriate NEPA documents, including preparing an EA or EIS, and signing the decision document.

(9) Monitor the overall timeliness and quality of the Responsible Official's respective office's efforts to comply with subparts A through C of this part.

(c) The NEPA Official and the Responsible Officials may delegate NEPA-related responsibilities to a level no lower than the Branch Chief or equivalent organizational level.
