
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart G - Significant New Alternatives Policy Program
###### ยง 82.178 Information required to be submitted.
####### Information already available in the literature.

(19)If any of the data needed to complete the SNAP program notice are available in the public literature, complete references for such information should be provided.

(b) The Significant New Alternatives Policy (SNAP) Information Notice is designed to provide the Agency with the information necessary to reach a decision on the acceptability of a substitute.

(1) Submitters requesting review under the SNAP program should send the completed SNAP notice to: SNAP Document Control Officer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (6205-J), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(2) Submitters filing jointly under SNAP and the Premanufacture Notice Program (PMN) should send the SNAP addendum along with the PMN form to: PMN Document Control Officer, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (7407), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460. Submitters must also send both documents to the SNAP program, with a reference to indicate the notice has been furnished to the Agency under the PMN program. Submitters providing information on new chemicals for joint review under the TSCA and SNAP programs may be required to supply additional toxicity data under TSCA section 5.

(3) Submitters filing jointly under SNAP and under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act should send the SNAP form to the Office of Pesticide Programs, Registration Division, (7505C) 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460, as well as to the SNAP Document Control Officer.
