
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart G - Significant New Alternatives Policy Program
###### Appendix D to Subpart G of Part 82 - Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes

R-406A/"GHG"/"McCool", "GHG-HP", "GHG-X4"/"Autofrost"/"Chill-It", and "Hot Shot"/"Kar Kool" are acceptable substitutes for CFC-12 in retrofitted motor vehicle air conditioning systems (MVACs) subject to the use condition that a retrofit to these refrigerants must include replacing non-barrier hoses with barrier hoses.

For all refrigerants submitted for use in motor vehicle air conditioning systems, subsequent to the effective date of this FRM, in addition to the information previously required in the March 18, 1994 final SNAP rule (58 FR 13044), SNAP submissions must include specifications for the fittings similar to those found in SAE J639, samples of all fittings, and the detailed label described below at the same time as the initial SNAP submission, or the submission will be considered incomplete. Under section 612 of the Clean Air Act, substitutes for which submissions are incomplete may not be sold or used, regardless of other acceptability determinations, and the prohibition against sale of a new refrigerant will not end until 90 days after EPA determines the submission is complete.

In addition, the use of a) R-406A/"GHG"/"McCool", "HCFC Blend Lambda"/"GHG-HP", R-414A/"HCFC Blend Xi"/"GHG-X4/"Autofrost"/"Chill-It", R-414B/"Hot Shot"/"Kar Kool", and R-416A/"HCFC Blend Beta"/"FREEZE 12" as CFC-12 substitutes in retrofitted MVACs, and b) all refrigerants submitted for, and listed in, subsequent Notices of Acceptability as substitutes for CFC-12 in MVACs, must meet the following conditions.

1. Each refrigerant may only be used with a set of fittings that is unique to that refrigerant. These fittings (male or female, as appropriate) must be designed by the manufacturer of the refrigerant. The manufacturer is responsible to ensure that the fittings meet all of the requirements listed below, including testing according to SAE standards. These fittings must be designed to mechanically prevent cross-charging with another refrigerant, including CFC-12.

The fittings must be used on all containers of the refrigerant, on can taps, on recovery, recycling, and charging equipment, and on all air conditioning system service ports. A refrigerant may only be used with the fittings and can taps specifically intended for that refrigerant and designed by the manufacturer of the refrigerant. Using a refrigerant with a fitting designed by anyone else, even if it is different from fittings used with other refrigerants, is a violation of this use condition. Using an adapter or deliberately modifying a fitting to use a different refrigerant is a violation of this use condition.

Fittings shall meet the following criteria, derived from Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standards and recommended practices:

a. When existing CFC-12 service ports are retrofitted, conversion assemblies shall attach to the CFC-12 fitting with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that permanently prevents the assembly from being removed.

b. All conversion assemblies and new service ports must satisfy the vibration testing requirements of section 3.2.1 or 3.2.2 of SAE J1660, as applicable, excluding references to SAE J639 and SAE J2064, which are specific to HFC-134a.

c. In order to prevent discharge of refrigerant to the atmosphere, systems shall have a device to limit compressor operation before the pressure relief device will vent refrigerant.

d. All CFC-12 service ports not retrofitted with conversion assemblies shall be rendered permanently incompatible for use with CFC-12 related service equipment by fitting with a device attached with a thread lock adhesive and/or a separate mechanical latching mechanism in a manner that prevents the device from being removed.

2. When a retrofit is performed, a label must be used as follows:

a. The person conducting the retrofit must apply a label to the air conditioning system in the engine compartment that contains the following information:

i. The name and address of the technician and the company performing the retrofit.

ii. The date of the retrofit.

iii. The trade name, charge amount, and, when applicable, the ASHRAE refrigerant numerical designation of the refrigerant.

iv. The type, manufacturer, and amount of lubricant used.

v. If the refrigerant is or contains an ozone-depleting substance, the phrase "ozone depleter".

vi. If the refrigerant displays flammability limits as measured according to ASTM E681, the statement "This refrigerant is FLAMMABLE. Take appropriate precautions."

b. The label must be large enough to be easily read and must be permanent.

c. The background color must be unique to the refrigerant.

d. The label must be affixed to the system over information related to the previous refrigerant, in a location not normally replaced during vehicle repair.

e. In accordance with SAE J639, testing of labels must meet ANSI/UL 969-1991.

f. Information on the previous refrigerant that cannot be covered by the new label must be rendered permanently unreadable.

3. No substitute refrigerant may be used to "top-off" a system that uses another refrigerant. The original refrigerant must be recovered in accordance with regulations issued under section 609 of the CAA prior to charging with a substitute.
