
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart G - Significant New Alternatives Policy Program
###### Appendix H to Subpart G of Part 82 - Substitutes Subject to Use Restrictions and Unacceptable Substitutes, Effective May 28, 1999

(a) All fittings for alternative motor vehicle refrigerants must meet the following requirements:

(1) High-side screw-on fittings for each refrigerant must differ from high-side screw-on fittings for all other refrigerants, including CFC-12, and from low-side screw-on fittings for CFC-12;

(2) Low-side screw-on fittings for each refrigerant must differ from low-side screw-on fittings for all other refrigerants, including CFC-12;

(3) High-side screw-on fittings for a given refrigerant must differ from low-side screw-on fittings for that refrigerant, to protect against connecting a low-pressure system to a high-pressure one;

(4) High-side quick-connect fittings for each refrigerant must differ from high-side quick-connect fittings for all other refrigerants, including CFC-12 (if they exist);

(5) Low-side quick-connect fittings for each refrigerant must differ from low-side quick-connect fittings for all other refrigerants, including CFC-12 (if they exist);

(6) High-side quick-connect fittings for a given refrigerant must differ from low-side quick-connect fittings for that refrigerant, to protect against connecting a low-pressure system to a high-pressure one;

(7) For each type of container, the fitting for each refrigerant must differ from the fitting for that type of container for all other refrigerants, including CFC-12.

(b) For screw-on fittings, "differ" means that either the diameter must differ by at leastinch or the thread direction must be reversed (i.e. right-handed vs. left-handed). Simply changing the thread pitch is not sufficient. For quick-connect fittings, "differ" means that a person using normal force and normal tools (including wrenches) must not be able to cross-connect fittings.

(c) The sole exception to theinch difference requirement is the difference between the small can fittings for GHG-X4 and R-406A. The GHG-X4 small can fitting uses a metric measurement, and is slightly less thaninch larger than the small can fitting for R-406A. EPA has concluded that these fittings will not cross-connect, and therefore they may be used.
