
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 82 - PROTECTION OF STRATOSPHERIC OZONE
##### Subpart H - Halon Emissions Reduction
###### ยง 82.270 Prohibitions.
####### de minimis

(2) Release of residual halon contained in fully discharged total flooding fire extinguishing systems would be considered arelease associated with good faith attempts to recycle or recover halon.

(3) Release of halons during testing of fire extinguishing systems is not subject to this prohibition if the following four conditions are met:

(i) Systems or equipment employing suitable alternative fire extinguishing agents are not available;

(ii) System or equipment testing requiring release of extinguishing agent is essential to demonstrate system or equipment functionality;

(iii) Failure of the system or equipment would pose great risk to human safety or the environment; and

(iv) A simulant agent cannot be used in place of the halon during system or equipment testing for technical reasons.

(4) Releases of halons associated with research and development of halon alternatives, and releases of halons necessary during analytical determination of halon purity using established laboratory practices are exempt from this prohibition.

(5) This prohibition does not apply to qualification and development testing during the design and development process of halon-containing systems or equipment when such tests are essential to demonstrate system or equipment functionality and when a suitable simulant agent can not be used in place of the halon for technical reasons.

(6) This prohibition does not apply to the emergency release of halons for the legitimate purpose of fire extinguishing, explosion inertion, or other emergency applications for which the equipment or systems were designed.

(c) Effective April 6, 1998, organizations that employ technicians who test, maintain, service, repair or dispose of halon-containing equipment shall take appropriate steps to ensure that technicians hired on or before April 6, 1998 will be trained regarding halon emissions reduction by September 1, 1998. Technicians hired after April 6, 1998 shall be trained regarding halon emissions reduction within 30 days of hiring, or by September 1, 1998, whichever is later.

(d) Effective April 6, 1998, no person shall dispose of halon-containing equipment except by sending it for halon recovery to a manufacturer operating in accordance with NFPA 10 and NFPA 12A standards, a fire equipment dealer operating in accordance with NFPA 10 and NFPA 12A standards or a recycler operating in accordance with NFPA 10 and NFPA 12A standards. This provision does not apply to ancillary system devices such as electrical detection control components which are not necessary to the safe and secure containment of the halon within the equipment, to fully discharged total flooding systems, or to equipment containing only de minimis quantities of halons.
