
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix I to Part 50 - Interpretation of the 8-Hour Primary and Secondary National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone
###### Design Values for Primary and Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone.
####### PM,Sampler.

7.1

7.1.1 The sampler shall be designed to:

a. Draw the air sample into the sampler inlet and through the particle collection filter at a uniform face velocity.

b. Hold and seal the filter in a horizontal position so that sample air is drawn downward through the filter.

c. Allow the filter to be installed and removed conveniently.

d. Protect the filter and sampler from precipitation and prevent insects and other debris from being sampled.

e. Minimize air leaks that would cause error in the measurement of the air volume passing through the filter.

f. Discharge exhaust air at a sufficient distance from the sampler inlet to minimize the sampling of exhaust air.

g. Minimize the collection of dust from the supporting surface.

7.1.2 The sampler shall have a sample air inlet system that, when operated within a specified flow rate range, provides particle size discrimination characteristics meeting all of the applicable performance specifications prescribed in part 53 of this chapter. The sampler inlet shall show no significant wind direction dependence. The latter requirement can generally be satisfied by an inlet shape that is circularly symmetrical about a vertical axis.

7.1.3 The sampler shall have a flow control device capable of maintaining the sampler's operating flow rate within the flow rate limits specified for the sampler inlet over normal variations in line voltage and filter pressure drop.

7.1.4 The sampler shall provide a means to measure the total flow rate during the sampling period. A continuous flow recorder is recommended but not required. The flow measurement device shall be accurate to +/-2 percent.

7.1.5 A timing/control device capable of starting and stopping the sampler shall be used to obtain a sample collection period of 24 +/-1 hr (1,440 +/-60 min). An elapsed time meter, accurate to within +/-15 minutes, shall be used to measure sampling time. This meter is optional for samplers with continuous flow recorders if the sampling time measurement obtained by means of the recorder meets the +/-15 minute accuracy specification.

7.1.6 The sampler shall have an associated operation or instruction manual as required by part 53 of this chapter which includes detailed instructions on the calibration, operation, and maintenance of the sampler.
