
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.5 Prohibitions relating to regulated substances.
####### Import.

(b)This paragraph applies starting January 1, 2022.

(1) No person may import bulk regulated substances, except:

(i) By expending, at the time of the import, consumption or application-specific allowances in a quantity equal to the exchange-value weighted equivalent of the regulated substances imported, with the required amount of allowances calculated to the tenth, but a minimum expenditure of 0.1 allowances is required for any import of regulated substances;

(ii) After receipt of a non-objection notice for substances for use in a process resulting in their transformation or their destruction in accordance with ยง 84.25(a);

(iii) After receipt of a non-objection notice for used regulated substances imported for destruction in accordance with ยง 84.25(b); or

(iv) As a transhipment in accordance with ยง 84.31(c)(3) if all transhipped regulated substance is exported from the United States within six months of its import.

(2) Each person meeting the definition of importer for a particular regulated substance import transaction is jointly and severally liable for a violation of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, unless they can demonstrate that another party who meets the definition of an importer met one of the exceptions set forth in paragraph (b)(1).

(3) Imports authorized under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) of this section may not be in containers designed to hold 100 pounds or less of a regulated substance.

(4) A person issued a non-objection notice for the import of an individual shipment of regulated substances under paragraph (b)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section may not transfer or confer the right to import.

(5) No person may introduce into U.S. commerce any regulated substance claimed as a transhipment.

(6) Every kilogram of bulk regulated substances imported contrary to this paragraph (b) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Import of less than one kilogram of bulk regulated substance contrary to this paragraph (b) constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
