
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### § 84.5 Prohibitions relating to regulated substances.
####### Application-specific uses.

(c)(1) As of January 1, 2022, no person may confer application-specific allowances for the production or import of a regulated substance in excess of the amount of unexpended application-specific allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period. No person may expend an application-specific allowance for regulated substances to be used in any application other than the one identified by the application-specific allowance expended. Every kilogram of production or import in excess of the application-specific allowances expended by the producer or importer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Production or import of less than one kilogram of regulated substance in excess of the application-specific allowances expended by the producer or importer constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.

(2) No person may use a regulated substance produced or imported by expending application-specific allowances for any purpose other than those for which the application-specific allowance was allocated, and as set forth in this paragraph (c). Application-specific allowances are apportioned to a person under §§ 84.13 and 84.15 for the production or import of regulated substances solely for the individual application listed on the allowance, which may include:

(i) A propellant in metered dose inhalers;

(ii) Defense sprays;

(iii) Structural composite preformed polyurethane foam for marine use and trailer use;

(iv) The etching of semiconductor material or wafers and the cleaning of chemical vapor deposition chambers within the semiconductor manufacturing sector;

(v) Mission-critical military end uses, such as armored vehicle engine and shipboard fire suppression systems and systems used in deployable and expeditionary applications; and

(vi) On board aerospace fire suppression.

(3) This provision applies starting January 1, 2022.

(i) No person may acquire application-specific allowances unless for use in the same application as associated with the application-specific allowance. No person may transfer or confer application-specific allowances unless for use in the same application as associated with the application-specific allowance.

(ii) No person may acquire or sell regulated substances produced or imported using application-specific allowances for use in anything other than the application for which it was originally allocated. Every kilogram of a regulated substance imported or exported in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. Import or export of less than one kilogram of regulated substance in contravention of this paragraph constitutes a separate violation of this subpart.
