
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.5 Prohibitions relating to regulated substances.
####### Production.

(a)(1) As of January 1, 2022, no person may produce regulated substances, intentionally or unintentionally, in excess of the quantity of unexpended production allowances and consumption allowances or unexpended application-specific allowances held by that person under the authority of this subpart at that time in that control period. Every kilogram of production in excess of allowances expended constitutes a separate violation of this subpart. The required amount of allowances that must be expended will be calculated to the tenth with a minimum expenditure of 0.1 allowances for any production of regulated substances.

(2) As of January 1, 2022, no person may expend production allowances to produce a quantity of regulated substances unless that person expends an equal quantity of consumption allowances at the same time.

(3) A person is not required to expend production, consumption, or application-specific allowances to produce regulated substances if the regulated substances are destroyed using a technology approved by the Administrator for destruction under ยง 84.29 within 30 days of generating the regulated substance if the destruction technology is located at the facility where production occurred or 120 days of generating the regulated substance if the destruction technology is not located at the facility where production occurred.

(4) No person may expend production or consumption allowances for generation of HFC-23 that is emitted at the same facility as where it is produced. Consistent with this prohibition, prior to the emissions standard compliance date established in ยง 84.27, neither production nor consumption allowances are required for HFC-23 emitted at the same facility as where it is produced.
