
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.5 Prohibitions relating to regulated substances.
####### Labeling.

(i)(1) As of January 1, 2022, no person may sell or distribute, offer for sale or distribution, or import containers containing a regulated substance that lacks a label or other permanent markings stating the common name(s), chemical name(s), or ASHRAE designation of the regulated substance(s) or blend contained within, and the percentages of the regulated substances if a blend.

(2) No person other than the importer may repackage regulated substances that were initially unlabeled or mislabeled. In order to repackage the regulated substances, the importer must either:

(i) Expend consumption allowances equal to the amount of allowances that would be required if each cylinder were full of HFC-23; or

(ii) Verify the contents with independent laboratory testing results and affix a correct label on the container that matches the lab-verified test results before the date of importation (consistent with the definition at 19 CFR 101.1) of the container.

(3)(i) No person producing, importing, reclaiming, recycling for fire suppression, or repackaging regulated substances may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, regulated substances without first testing a representative sample of the regulated substances that they are producing, importing, reclaiming, recycling for fire suppression, or repackaging to verify that the composition of the regulated substance(s) matches the container labeling. For regulated substances sold or distributed or offered for sale and distribution as refrigerants, sampling must be done consistent with appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F-Specifications for Refrigerants.

(ii) No person may sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, regulated substances as a refrigerant that do not meet the specifications in appendix A to 40 CFR part 82, subpart F-Specifications for Refrigerants.
