
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.19 Transfers of allowances.
####### Inter-company transfers.

(a)As of January 1, 2022, a person ("transferor") may transfer to any other person ("transferee") any quantity of the transferor's production allowances, consumption allowances, or application-specific allowances for use by the same type of application, as long as the following conditions are met:

(1) An offset equal to five percent of the amount of allowances transferred will be deducted from the transferor's production allowance balance if a transfer is made of production allowances, or deducted from the transferor's consumption allowance balance if a transfer is made of consumption allowances. In the case of transferring application-specific allowances, one percent of the amount of allowances transferred will be deducted from the transferor's application-specific allowance balance.

(2) The transferor must submit to the relevant Agency official a transfer claim setting forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the transferor and the transferee;

(ii) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the transferor and the transferee;

(iii) The type of allowances being transferred, including the specific application (if applicable), for which allowances are to be transferred;

(iv) The quantity (in MTEVe) of allowances being transferred;

(v) The total cost of the allowances transferred;

(vi) The amount of unexpended allowances of the type and for the year being transferred that the transferor holds under authority of this subpart as of the date the claim is submitted to EPA;

(vii) The quantity of the offset to be deducted from the transferor's allowance balance; and

(viii) For transfers of application-specific allowances, a signed document from the transferee certifying that the transferee will use the application-specific allowances only for the same application for which the application-specific allowance was allocated.

(3) The relevant Agency official will determine whether the records maintained by EPA indicate that the transferor possesses unexpended allowances sufficient to cover the transfer claim as of the date the transfer claim is processed. The transfer claim is the quantity in EVe to be transferred plus the quantity of the offset. The relevant Agency official will take into account any previous transfers, any production, and allowable imports and exports of regulated substances reported by the transferor. Within three working days of receiving a complete transfer claim, the relevant Agency official will take action to notify the transferor and transferee as follows:

(i) The relevant Agency official will issue a non-objection notice to both the transferor and transferee indicating if EPA's records show that the transferor has sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim. In the case of transfers of production allowances or consumption allowances, the relevant agency official will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus five percent of that quantity. In the case of transfers of application-specific allowances the relevant agency official will reduce the transferor's balance of unexpended allowances by the quantity to be transferred plus one percent of that quantity. The transferor and the transferee may proceed with the transfer when the relevant agency official issues a non-objection notice. However, if EPA ultimately finds that the transferor did not have sufficient unexpended allowances to cover the claim, the transferor and transferee will be liable for any violations of the regulations of this subpart that occur as a result of, or in conjunction with, the improper transfer.

(ii) The relevant Agency official will issue an objection notice disallowing the transfer if EPA's records show that the transferor has insufficient unexpended allowances to cover the transfer claim, that the transferor has failed to respond to one or more Agency requests to supply information needed to make a determination, or that the transferor or transferee has been notified of an impending administrative consequence and therefore is disallowed from transferring allowances in accordance with ยง 84.35. Either transferor or transferee may file a notice of appeal, with supporting reasons, with the relevant Agency official within 10 working days after receipt of the objection notice. The official may affirm or vacate the disallowance. If no appeal is filed electronically by the tenth working day after notification, the disallowance shall be final on that day.

(4) The transferer and transferee must maintain a copy of the transfer claim and a copy of EPA's non-objection or objection notice for five years.
