
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.17 Availability of additional consumption allowances.

A person may obtain at any time during the year, in accordance with the provisions of this section, consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of regulated substances that the person exported from the United States and its territories to a foreign country in accordance with this section.

(a) The exporter must submit to the relevant Agency official a request for consumption allowances setting forth the following:

(1) The identities and addresses of the exporter and the recipient of the exports;

(2) The exporter's Employer Identification Number;

(3) The names, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the exporter and the recipient;

(4) The quantity (in kilograms) and name of the regulated substances exported;

(5) The source of the regulated substances and the date purchased;

(6) The date on which, and the port from which, the regulated substances were exported from the United States or its territories;

(7) The country to which the regulated substances were exported;

(8) A copy of the bill of lading and the invoice indicating the net quantity (in kilograms) of regulated substances shipped and documenting the sale of the regulated substances to the purchaser; and

(9) The Harmonized Tariff Schedule codes of the regulated substances exported.

(b) The relevant Agency official will review the information and documentation submitted under paragraph (a) of this section and will issue a notice to the requestor within 15 working days.

(1) The relevant Agency official will determine the quantity of regulated substances that the documentation verifies was exported and issue consumption allowances equivalent to the quantity of regulated substances that were exported.

(i) The grant of the consumption allowances will be effective on the date the notice is issued.

(ii) The consumption allowances will be granted to the person the exporter indicates, whether it is the producer, the importer, or the exporter.

(iii) The consumption allowances will be valid until December 31 of the same calendar year in which the regulated substances were exported.

(2) The relevant Agency official will issue a notice that the consumption allowances are not granted if the official determines that the information and documentation do not satisfactorily substantiate the exporter's claims.
