
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.23 Certification identification generation and tracking.
####### Prohibitions.

(b)Every kilogram of bulk regulated substances imported, sold or distributed, offered for sale or distribution, purchased or received, or attempted to be purchased or received in violation of this section is a separate violation of this subpart. Import, sale or distribution, offer for sale or distribution, purchase or receipt, or attempt to purchase or receive less than one kilogram of regulated substances in violation of this section is a separate violation of this subpart.

(1) No person may import, sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, and no person may purchase or receive, or attempt to purchase or receive, a bulk regulated substance unless the container has a valid certification identification.

(2) No person may import, sell or distribute, or offer for sale or distribution, bulk regulated substances unless that person is registered with EPA consistent with paragraph (d) of this section.

(3) No person may purchase or receive, or attempt to purchase or receive, bulk regulated substances from a person that is not registered with EPA consistent with paragraph (d) of this section;

(4) The following situations are exempt from the prohibitions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section:

(i) The regulated substances are part of a transhipment and the person transhipping the regulated substance has reported to EPA consistent with ยง 84.31(c)(3);

(ii) The regulated substances were previously used, have been recovered from a piece of equipment, and are intended for reclamation or fire suppressant recycling and:

(A) The person selling or distributing the regulated substances certifies in writing to the person purchasing or receiving the regulated substances that they were recovered from a piece of equipment and provides the date of recovery; and

(B) The person purchasing or receiving the regulated substances is an EPA-certified reclaimer, a registered fire suppressant recycler consistent with paragraph (d) of this section, or a registered supplier of regulated substances consistent with paragraph (d).

(iii) The regulated substances were imported consistent with the petition process described in ยง 84.25;

(iv) The regulated substances were collected for destruction and sent to a destruction facility directly or through an aggregator that is reporting to EPA consistent with ยง 84.31(c)(5); or

(v) The regulated substances were recovered from a motor vehicle air conditioner (MVAC) or MVAC-like appliance in accordance with 40 CFR part 82, subpart B and are sold or distributed or offered for sale or distribution by the same person who recovered the regulated substances for use only in MVAC equipment or MVAC-like appliances.

(5) No producer or importer may request certification identifications that would exceed their currently available allowances.

(6) A person who reclaims regulated substances or recycles regulated substances for fire suppression uses may request certification identifications at a level equal to their reported reclamation or recycling for the prior year plus an amount based on the average annual growth in total U.S. reclamation of regulated substances in the prior three years or 10 percent, whichever is higher. If further certification identifications are needed, the reclaimer or recycler must notify EPA 45 days in advance of exceeding their allowed level and request approval to generate additional certification identifications. The request must estimate the additional certification identifications needed for the next six months and provide an explanation for the increased level of reclamation or recycling. The relevant agency official will review the request and adjust the amount of certification identifications for the person as appropriate within 21 days. Additional requests can be submitted throughout the year as needed.

(7) No regulated substance repackager or blender may request certificate identifications unless they have allowances. They may generate QR codes based on the certification identifications associated with the containers they acquire.
