
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.19 Transfers of allowances.
####### Revised production limit for previous transferors.

(6)If the average actual U.S. production during the three most recent calendar years before the date of the transfer is less than the total allowable U.S. production for the applicable regulated substances permitted in ยง 84.7(b) for a calendar year for which international transfers are approved to occur, the aggregate allowed national U.S. production of those substances will be reduced by an additional amount beyond a simple deduction of the number of allowances reflected in the notifications under paragraph (b)(5)(ii)(B) of this section. In these circumstances, the relevant Agency official will revise the production limit for each transferor who obtained approval of a transfer of the applicable regulated substances to a foreign country in the same calendar year and notify each transferor of the revision in writing. The amount of the revision will equal the result of the following set of calculations:

(i) The total U.S. allowable production of the applicable regulated substances minus the average of the actual annual U.S. production of those substances during the three most recent calendar years prior to the calendar year of the transfer.

(ii) The quantity of production allowances for the applicable regulated substances transferred by the transferor in that calendar year divided by the total quantity of production allowances for those substances approved for transfer to a person in a foreign country by all the persons approved to make such transfers in that calendar year.

(iii) The result of paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section multiplied by the result of paragraph (b)(6)(ii) of this section.

(iv) The unexpended production allowances held by the person minus the result of paragraph (b)(6)(iii) of this section.
