
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.21 Sale or conveyance of regulated substances produced or imported with application-specific allowances.
####### Sale or conveyance of regulated substances produced or imported using application-specific allowances.

(a)(1) As of January 1, 2022, any person receiving an application-specific allowance (application-specific seller) may sell or convey regulated substances produced or imported by expending that allowance to another person within the same application (application-specific purchaser) provided that the relevant Agency official approves the sale or conveyance.

(2) The application-specific seller must submit a claim to the relevant Agency official for approval before the sale or conveyance can take place. The claim must set forth the following:

(i) The identities and addresses of the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser;

(ii) The name, telephone numbers, and email addresses of contact persons for the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser;

(iii) The amount of each regulated substance being sold or conveyed;

(iv) The cost of the regulated substance being sold or conveyed;

(v) The application for which allowances were allocated and the specific products that the application-specific purchaser plans to produce with the regulated substances; and

(vi) Certification that the regulated substances will be used only for the same application for which the application-specific allowance under which the substances were produced or imported was allocated.

(3) The application-specific purchaser must submit a letter to the relevant Agency official stating that it concurs with the terms of the sale or conveyance as requested by the application-specific seller.

(4) Once the claim is complete, and if EPA does not object to the sale or conveyance, the relevant agency official will issue letters to the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser within 10 business days indicating that the transaction may proceed. EPA reserves the right to disallow a transaction if the claim is incomplete, or if it has reason to believe that the application-specific purchaser plans use the regulated substance in anything other than the stated application. If EPA objects to the transaction, the relevant agency official will issue letters to the application-specific seller and the application-specific purchaser stating the basis for disallowing the transaction.

(5) The burden of proof is placed on the application-specific purchaser to retain sufficient records to prove that the sold or conveyed regulated substances are used only for the stated application.

(b) [Reserved]
