
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.25 Required processes to import regulated substances as feedstocks or for destruction.
####### Review of petition to import for use in a process resulting in transformation or destruction.

(2)(i) The relevant Agency official will initiate a review of the information submitted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section and take action within 21 days to issue either an objection notice or a non-objection notice for the individual shipment to the person who submitted the petition.

(ii) The relevant Agency official may issue an objection notice to a petition for the following reasons:

(A) If the relevant Agency official determines that the information is insufficient; that is, if the petition lacks or appears to lack any of the information required under paragraph (a)(1) of this section or other information that may be requested during the review of the petition necessary to verify that the regulated substance is for use in a process resulting in transformation or destruction;

(B) If the relevant Agency official determines that any portion of the petition contains false, inaccurate, or misleading information, or the official has information from other U.S. or foreign government agencies indicating that the petition contains false, inaccurate, or misleading information.

(iii) Within 10 working days after receipt of an objection notice with the basis being "insufficient information," the importer may re-petition the relevant Agency official. If no re-petition is taken by the tenth working day after the date on the objection notice, the objection shall become final. Only one re-petition will be accepted for any petition received by EPA.

(iv) Any information contained in the re-petition which is inconsistent with the original petition must be identified and a description of the reason for the inconsistency must accompany the re-petition.

(v) In cases where the relevant Agency official does not object to the petition, the official will issue a non-objection notice.

(vi) If, following EPA's issuance of a non-objection notice, new information is brought to EPA's attention which shows that the non-objection notice was issued based on false, inaccurate, or misleading information, then EPA has the right to:

(A) Revoke and void the non-objection notice from the approval date;

(B) Pursue all means to ensure that the regulated substance is not imported into the United States; and

(C) Take appropriate enforcement and apply administrative consequences.
