
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 84 - PHASEDOWN OF HYDROFLUOROCARBONS
##### Subpart A - Production and Consumption Controls
###### ยง 84.31 Recordkeeping and reporting.
####### Treatment of Data submitted under 40 CFR part 84.

(k)(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (i) of this section, 40 CFR 2.201 through 2.215 and 2.301 do not apply to data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be either of the following:

(i) Emission data, as defined in 40 CFR 2.301(a)(2), determined in accordance with section 114(c) and 307(d) of the Clean Air Act; or

(ii) Data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment.

(2) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (k)(4) of this section, 40 CFR 2.201 through 2.208 and 2.301(c) and (d) do not apply to data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment. EPA shall treat that information as confidential in accordance with the provisions of 40 CFR 2.211, subject to paragraph (h)(4) of this section and 40 CFR 2.209.

(3) Upon receiving a request under 5 U.S.C. 552 for data submitted under this part that EPA has determined through rulemaking to be entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant Agency official shall furnish the requestor a notice that the information has been determined to be entitled to confidential treatment and that the request is therefore denied. The notice shall include or cite to the appropriate EPA determination.

(4) A determination made through rulemaking that information submitted under this part is entitled to confidential treatment shall continue in effect unless, subsequent to the confidentiality determination through rulemaking, EPA takes one of the following actions:

(i) EPA determines through a subsequent rulemaking that the information is emission data or data not otherwise entitled to confidential treatment; or

(ii) The Office of General Counsel issues a final determination, based on the requirements of 5 U.S.C. 552(b)(4), stating that the information is no longer entitled to confidential treatment because of change in the applicable law or newly discovered or changed facts. Prior to making such final determination, EPA shall afford the business an opportunity to submit comments on pertinent issues in the manner described by 40 CFR 2.204(e) and 2.205(b). If, after consideration of any timely comments submitted by the business, the Office of General Counsel makes a revised final determination that the information is not entitled to confidential treatment, the relevant agency official will notify the business in accordance with the procedures described in 40 CFR 2.205(f)(2).
