
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix I to Part 50 - Interpretation of the 8-Hour Primary and Secondary National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone
###### Design Values for Primary and Secondary Ambient Air Quality Standards for Ozone.
####### i.e.

8.2.2 Calibrate the flow rate transfer standard against a primary flow or volume standard traceable to NBS. Establish a calibration relationship (e.g., an equation or family of curves) such that traceability to the primary standard is accurate to within 2 percent over the expected range of ambient conditions (, temperatures and pressures) under which the transfer standard will be used. Recalibrate the transfer standard periodically.

8.2.3 Following the sampler manufacturer's instruction manual, remove the sampler inlet and connect the flow rate transfer standard to the sampler such that the transfer standard accurately measures the sampler's flow rate. Make sure there are no leaks between the transfer standard and the sampler.

8.2.4 Choose a minimum of three flow rates (actual m/min), spaced over the acceptable flow rate range specified for the inlet (see 7.1.2) that can be obtained by suitable adjustment of the sampler flow rate. In accordance with the sampler manufacturer's instruction manual, obtain or verify the calibration relationship between the flow rate (actual m/min) as indicated by the transfer standard and the sampler's flow indicator response. Record the ambient temperature and barometric pressure. Temperature and pressure corrections to subsequent flow indicator readings may be required for certain types of flow measurement devices. When such corrections are necessary, correction on an individual or daily basis is preferable. However, seasonal average temperature and average barometric pressure for the sampling site may be incorporated into the sampler calibration to avoid daily corrections. Consult the sampler manufacturer's instruction manual and Reference 2 for additional guidance.

8.2.5 Following calibration, verify that the sampler is operating at its design flow rate (actual m/min) with a clean filter in place.

8.2.6 Replace the sampler inlet.
