
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart F - Exemption of Clean Alternative Fuel Conversions From Tampering Prohibition
###### ยง 85.510 Exemption provisions for new and relatively new vehicles/engines.
####### 12

() All converted vehicles are subject to the most stringent emission standards used in certifying the OEM test groups within the conversion test group.

(B) EPA-established scaled assigned deterioration factors for both exhaust and evaporative emissions may be used for vehicles with over 10,000 miles if the criteria for small volume manufacturer or qualified small volume test groups are met as defined in 40 CFR 86.1838-01. This deterioration factor will be adjusted according to vehicle or engine miles of operation. The deterioration factor is intended to predict the vehicle's emission levels at the end of the useful life. EPA may adjust these scaled assigned deterioration factors if we find the rate of deterioration non-constant or if the rate differs by fuel type.

(C) As part of the conversion system description provided in the application for certification, conversion manufacturers using EPA assigned deterioration factors must present detailed information to confirm the durability of all relevant new and existing components and to explain why the conversion system will not harm the emission control system or degrade the emissions.

(ii) Conversion evaporative/refueling families are identical to the OEM evaporative/refueling families unless the OEM evaporative emission system is no longer functionally necessary. You must create any new evaporative families according to 40 CFR 86.1821-01.

(2) Engine families and evaporative/refueling families for heavy-duty engines.

(i) Small volume conversion manufacturers and qualified small volume heavy-duty engine families.

(A) If criteria for small volume manufacturer or qualified small volume engine families are met as defined in 40 CFR 86.098-14 and 40 CFR 86.096-24(e)(2) you may combine heavy-duty engines using good engineering judgment into conversion engine families if the following criteria are satisfied instead of those specified in 40 CFR part 86, subpart A.
