
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart P - Importation of Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines
###### § 85.1506 Inspection and testing of imported motor vehicles and engines.

(a) In order to allow the Administrator to determine whether a certificate holder's production vehicles or engines comply with applicable emission requirements or requirements of this subpart, EPA Enforcement Officers are authorized to conduct inspections and/or tests of vehicles or engines imported by the certificate holder. EPA Enforcement Officers shall be admitted during operating hours upon demand and upon presentation of credentials to any of the following:

(1) Any facility where any vehicle or engine imported by the certificate holder under this subpart was or is being modified, tested or stored; and

(2) Any facility where any record or other document relating to modification, testing or storage of the vehicles or engines, or required to be kept by § 85.1507, is located.

(b) Upon admission to any facility referred to in paragraph (a) of this section, any EPA Enforcement Officer shall be allowed during operating hours:

(1) To inspect and monitor any part or aspect of activities relating to the certificate holder's modification, testing and/or storage of vehicles or engines imported under this subpart;

(2) To inspect and make copies of any records or documents related to modification, testing and storage of a vehicle or engine, or required by § 85.1507; and

(3) To inspect and photograph any part or aspect of any such vehicle or engine and any component used in the assembly thereof.

(c) Any EPA Enforcement Officer shall be furnished, by those in charge of a facility being inspected, with such reasonable assistance as he/she may request to help him/her discharge any function listed in this subpart. A certificate holder shall cause those in charge of a facility operated for its benefit to furnish such reasonable assistance without charge to EPA (whether or not the certificate holder controls the facility).

(d) The requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section apply whether or not the certificate holder owns or controls the facility in question. Noncompliance with the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) may preclude an informed judgment that vehicles or engines which have been or are being imported under this subpart by the certificate holder comply with applicable emission requirements or requirements of this subpart. It is the certificate holder's responsibility to make such arrangements as may be necessary to assure compliance with paragraphs (a), (b) and (c) of this section. Failure to do so, or other failure to comply with paragraphs (a), (b) and (c), may result in sanctions as provided for in the Act or § 85.1513(e).

(e) Duly designated Enforcement Officers are authorized to proceed ex parte to seek warrants authorizing the inspection or testing of the motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines described in paragraph (a) of this section whether or not the Enforcement Officer first attempted to seek permission from the certificate holder or facility owner to inspect such motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines.

(f) The results of the Administrator's test under this section shall comprise the official test data for the vehicle or engine for purposes of determining whether the vehicle or engine should be permitted final entry under § 85.1505 or § 85.1509.

(g) For purposes of this section:

(1) "Presentation of Credentials" shall mean display of the document designating a person as an EPA Enforcement Officer.

(2) Where vehicle storage areas or facilities are concerned, "operating hours" shall means all times during which personnel other than custodial personnel are at work in the vicinity of the area or facility and have access to it.

(3) Where facilities or areas other than those specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section are concerned, "operating hours" shall mean all times during which the facility is in operation.

(4) "Reasonable assistance" includes, but is not limited to, clerical, copying, interpreting and translating services, and the making available on request of personnel of the facility being inspected during their working hours to inform the EPA Enforcement Officer of how the facility operates and to answer his/her questions.
