
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart P - Importation of Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines
###### ยง 85.1510 Maintenance instructions, warranties, emission labeling and fuel economy requirements.
####### Maintenance instructions.

(a)(1) The certificate holder shall furnish to the purchaser or to the owner of each vehicle or engine imported under ยง 85.1505 or ยง 85.1509 of this section, written instructions for the maintenance and use of the vehicle or engine by the purchaser or owner. Each application for final admission of a vehicle or engine shall provide an attestation that such instructions have been or will be (if the ultimate producer is unknown) furnished to the purchaser or owner of such vehicle or engine at the time of sale or redelivery. The certificate holder shall maintain a record of having furnished such instructions.

(2) For each vehicle or engine imported under ยง 85.1509, the maintenance and use instructions shall be maintained in a file containing the records for that vehicle or engine.

(3) Such instructions shall not contain requirements more restrictive than those set forth in 40 CFR part 86, subpart A or subpart S, as applicable (Maintenance Instructions), and shall be in sufficient detail and clarity that an automotive mechanic of average training and ability can maintain or repair the vehicle or engine.

(4) Certificate holders shall furnish with each vehicle or engine a list of the emission control parts, and emission-related parts added by the certificate holder and the emission control and emission related parts furnished by the OEM.
