
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart P - Importation of Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines
###### § 85.1511 Exemptions and exclusions.
####### Hardship exemption.

(2)The Administrator may exempt on a case-by-case basis certain motor vehicles from Federal emission requirements to accommodate unforeseen cases of extreme hardship or extraordinary circumstances. Some examples are as follows:

(i) Handicapped individuals who need a special vehicle unavailable in a certified configuration;

(ii) Individuals who purchase a vehicle in a foreign country where resale is prohibited upon the departure of such an individual;

(iii) Individuals emigrating from a foreign country to the U.S. in circumstances of severe hardship.

(d) Foreign diplomatic and military personnel may import nonconforming vehicles without bond. At the time of admission, the importer shall submit to the Administrator the written report required in § 85.1504(a)(1) (except for information required by § 85.1504(a)(1)(v)). Such vehicles may not be sold in the United States.

(e) Racing vehicles may be imported by any person provided the vehicles meet one or more of the exclusion criteria specified in § 85.1703. Racing vehicles may not be registered or licensed for use on or operated on public roads and highways in the United States.

(f) The following exclusions and exemptions apply based on date of original manufacture:

(1) Notwithstanding any other requirements of this subpart, the following motor vehicles or motor vehicle engines are excluded from the requirements of the Act in accordance with section 216(3) of the Act and may be imported by any person:

(i) Gasoline-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks originally manufactured prior to January 1, 1968.

(ii) Diesel-fueled light-duty vehicles originally manufactured prior to January 1, 1975.

(iii) Diesel-fueled light-duty trucks originally manufactured prior to January 1, 1976.

(iv) Motorcycles originally manufactured prior to January 1, 1978.

(v) Gasoline-fueled and diesel-fueled heavy-duty engines originally manufactured prior to January 1, 1970.

(2) Notwithstanding any other requirements of this subpart, a motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine not subject to an exclusion under paragraph (f)(1) of this section but greater than twenty OP years old is entitled to an exemption from the requirements of the Act, provided that it is imported into the United States by a certificate holder. At the time of admission, the certificate holder shall submit to the Administrator the written report required in § 85.1504(a)(1) (except for information required by § 85.1504(a)(1)(v)).

(g) Applications for exemptions and exclusions provided for in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section shall be mailed to the Designated Compliance Officer (see 40 CFR 1068.30).

(h) Vehicles conditionally or finally admitted under this section must still comply with all applicable requirements, if any, of the Energy Tax Act of 1978, the Energy Policy and Conservation Act and any other Federal or state requirements.
