
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart R - Exclusion and Exemption of Motor Vehicles and Motor Vehicle Engines
###### ยง 85.1705 Testing exemption.

(a) Any person requesting a testing exemption must demonstrate the following:

(1) That the proposed test program has a purpose which constitutes an appropriate basis for an exemption in accordance with section 203(b)(1);

(2) That the proposed test program necessitates the granting of an exemption;

(3) That the proposed test program exhibits reasonableness in scope; and

(4) That the proposed test program exhibits a degree of control consonant with the purpose of the program and the Environmental Protection Agency's (hereafter EPA) monitoring requirements. Paragraphs (b), (c), (d), and (e) of this section describe what constitutes a sufficient demonstration for each of the four above identified elements.

(b) With respect to the purpose of the proposed test program, an appropriate purpose is one which is consistent with one or more of the bases for exemption set forth under section 203(b)(1), namely, research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, or training, but not including national security. A concise statement of purpose is a required item of information.

(c) With respect to the necessity that an exemption be granted, necessity arises from an inability to achieve the stated purpose in a practicable manner without performing or causing to be performed one or more of the prohibited acts under section 203(a). In appropriate circumstances time constraints may be a sufficient basis for necessity, but the cost of certification alone, in the absence of extraordinary circumstances, is not a basis for necessity.

(d) With respect to reasonableness, a test program must exhibit a duration of reasonable length and affect a reasonable number of vehicles or engines. In this regard, required items of information include:

(1) An estimate of the program's duration;

(2) The maximum number of vehicles or engines involved; and

(e) With respect to control, the test program must incorporate procedures consistent with the purpose of the test and be capable of affording EPA monitoring capability. As a minimum, required items of information include:

(1) The technical nature of the test;

(2) The site of the test;

(3) The time or mileage duration of the test;

(4) The ownership arrangement with regard to the vehicles or engines involved in the test;

(5) The intended final disposition of the vehicles or engines;

(6) The manner in which vehicle identification numbers or the engine serial numbers will be identified, recorded, and made available; and

(7) The means or procedure whereby test results will be recorded.

(f) A manufacturer of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines may request a testing exemption to cover any vehicles and/or engines intended for use in test programs planned or anticipated over the course of a subsequent one-year period. Unless otherwise required by the Director, Manufacturers Operations Division, a manufacturer requesting such an exemption need only furnish the information required by paragraphs (a)(1) and (d)(2) of this section along with a description of the recordkeeping and control procedures that will be employed to assure that the vehicles and/or engines are used for purposes consistent with section 203(b)(1).
