
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart S - Recall Regulations
###### ยง 85.1803 Remedial Plan.

(a) When any manufacturer is notified by the Administrator that a substantial number of any class or category of vehicles or engines, although properly maintained and used, do not conform to the regulations (including emission standards) or family particulate emission limits, as defined in part 86 promulgated under section 202 of the Act and in effect during (and applicable to) the model year of such class or classes of vehicles or engines, the manufacturer shall submit a plan to the Administrator to remedy such nonconformity. The plan shall contain the following:

(1) A description of each class or category of vehicle or engine to be recalled including the model year, the make, the model, and such other information as may be required to identify the vehicles or engines to be recalled.

(2) A description of the specific modifications, alterations, repairs, corrections, adjustments or other changes to be made to bring the vehicles or engines into conformity including a brief summary of the data and technical studies which support the manufacturer's decision as to the particular remedial changes to be used in correcting the nonconformity.

(3) A description of the method by which the manufacturer will determine the names and addresses of vehicle or engine owners.

(4) A description of the proper maintenance or use, if any, upon which the manufacturer conditions eligibility for repair under the remedial plan, an explanation of the manufacturer's reasons for imposing any such condition, and a description of the proof to be required of a vehicle or engine owner to demonstrate compliance with any such condition. Eligibility may not be denied solely on the basis that the vehicle or engine owner used parts not manufactured by the original equipment vehicle manufacturer, or had repairs performed by outlets other than the vehicle manufacturer's franchised dealers. No maintenance or use condition may be imposed unless it is, in the judgement of the Administrator, demonstrably related to preventing the nonconformity.
