
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart S - Recall Regulations
###### ยง 85.1803 Remedial Plan.
####### Provided,

(5) A description of the procedure to be followed by vehicle or engine owners to obtain correction of the nonconformity. This shall include designation of the date on or after which the owner can have the nonconformity remedied, the time reasonably necessary to perform the labor required to correct the nonconformity, and the designation of facilities at which the nonconformity can be remedied:That repair shall be completed within a reasonable time designated by the Administrator from the date the owner first tenders his vehicle or engine after the date designated by the manufacturer as the date on or after which the owner can have the nonconformity remedied.

(6) If some or all of the nonconforming vehicles or engines are to be remedied by persons other than dealers or authorized warranty agents of the manufacturer, a description of the class of persons other than dealers and authorized warranty agents of the manufacturer who will remedy the nonconformity, and a statement indicating that the participating members of the class will be properly equipped to perform such remedial action.

(7) Three copies of the letters of notification to be sent to vehicle or engine owners.

(8) A description of the system by which the manufacturer will assure that an adequate supply of parts will be available to perform the repair under the remedial plan including the date by which an adequate supply of parts will be available to initiate the repair campaign, the percentage of the total parts requirement of each person who is to perform the repair under the remedial plan to be shipped to initiate the campaign, and the method to be used to assure the supply remains both adequate and responsive to owner demand.

(9) Three copies of all necessary instructions to be sent to those persons who are to perform the repair under the remedial plan.

(10) A description of the impact of the proposed changes on fuel consumption, driveability, and safety of each class or category of vehicles or engines to be recalled and a brief summary of the data, technical studies, or engineering evaluations which support these conclusions.

(11) Any other information, reports or data which the Administrator may reasonably determine is necessary to evaluate the remedial plan.
