
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart S - Recall Regulations
###### ยง 85.1806 Records and reports.

(a) The manufacturer shall provide to the Administrator a copy of all communications which relate to the remedial plan directed to dealers and other persons who are to perform the repair under the remedial plan. Such copies shall be mailed to the Administrator contemporaneously with their transmission to dealers and other persons who are to perform the repair under the remedial plan.

(b) The manufacturer shall provide for the establishment and maintenance of records to enable the Administrator to conduct a continuing analysis of the adequacy of the recall campaign. The records shall include, for each class or category of vehicle or engine, but need not be limited to, the following:

(1) Recall campaign number as designated by the manufacturer.

(2) Date owner notification was begun, and date completed.

(3) Number of vehicles or engines involved in the recall campaign.

(4) Number of vehicles or engines known or estimated to be affected by the nonconformity.

(5) Number of vehicles or engines inspected pursuant to the remedial plan.

(6) Number of inspected vehicles found to be affected by the nonconformity.

(7) Number of vehicles actually receiving repair under the remedial plan.

(8) Number of vehicles determined to be unavailable for inspection or repair under the remedial plan due to exportation, theft, scrapping or for other reasons (specify).

(9) Number of vehicles or engines determined to be ineligible for remedial action due to a failure to properly maintain or use such vehicles or engines.

(c) If the manufacturer determines that the original answers for paragraphs (b) (3) and (4) of this section are incorrect, revised figures and an explanatory note shall be submitted. Answers to paragraphs (b) (5), (6), (7), and (8), and (9) of this section shall be cumulative totals.

(d) Unless otherwise directed by the Administrator, the information specified in paragraph (b) of this section shall be included in quarterly reports, with respect to each recall campaign, for six consecutive quarters beginning with the quarter in which the notification of owners was initiated, or until all nonconforming vehicles or engines involved in the campaign have been remedied, whichever occurs sooner. Such reports shall be submitted no later than 25 working days after the close of each calendar quarter.

(e) The manufacturer shall maintain in a form suitable for inspection, such as computer information storage devices or card files, lists of the names and addresses of vehicles or engine owners.

(1) To whom notification was given;

(2) Who received remedial repair or inspection under the remedial plan; and

(3) When eligibility for repair is conditioned on proper maintenance or use, that were determined not to qualify for such remedial action.

(f) The records described in paragraph (e) of this section shall be made available to the Administrator upon request.

(g) The records and reports required by this section shall be retained for not less than 5 years.
