
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart T - Emission Defect Reporting Requirements
###### ยง 85.1903 Emissions defect information report.
####### et seq.,

(1) The manufacturer determines in accordance with procedures established by the manufacturer to identify safety related defects (pursuant to 15 U.S.C. 1381as amended) that a specific emission-related defect exists; and

(2) That the specific emission-related defect exists in twenty-five or more vehicles or engines of the same model year.

(b) Defect information reports required under paragraph (a) of this section shall be submitted not more than 15 working days after an emission-related defect is found to affect twenty-five vehicles or engines of the same model year. Items of information required by paragraph (c) of this section that are either not available within that period or are significantly revised shall be submitted as they become available.

(c) Except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section, each defect report shall contain the following information in substantially the format outlined below:

(1) The manufacturer's corporate name.

(2) A description of the defect.

(3) A description of each class or category of vehicles or engines potentially affected by the defect including make, model, model year, and such other information as may be required to identify the vehicles or engines affected.

(4) For each class or category of vehicle or engine described in response to paragraph (c)(3) of this section, the following shall also be provided:

(i) The number of vehicles or engines known or estimated to have the defect and an explanation of the means by which this number was determined.

(ii) The address of the plant(s) at which the potentially defective vehicles or engines were produced.

(5) An evaluation of the emissions impact of the defect and a description of any driveability problems which a defective vehicle might exhibit.

(6) Available emissions data which relate to the defect.

(7) An indication of any anticipated manufacturer follow-up.
