
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2114 Basis of certification.
####### For parts eligible to certify using emission-critical parameters, certification compliance can be demonstrated as follows.

(b)(1) The durability procedure contained in appendix I to this subpart can be used. As an alternative, the aftermarket part manufacturer may use a different durability procedure if it can demonstrate to the MOD Director that the alternative procedure results in an improved technical evaluation of the part's influence on vehicle or engine emissions for its useful life mileage interval, or results in a significant cost savings to the aftermarket part manufacturer with no loss in technical validity compared to the recommended durability procedure. The aftermarket part manufacturer shall receive the written approval from the MOD Director prior to implementation of the alternative procedures.

(2) Compliance with certification requirements is based on conformance with all emission-critical parameters in ยง 85.2122. This shall be accomplished by performing such procedures, tests, or analyses described in appendix I, or other procedures subject to the MOD Director's approval, necessary to ascertain with a high degree of certainty the emission-critical parameter specifications and tolerances for the aftermarket part and the original equipment or previously certified part for which an equivalent aftermarket certified part is to be used.

(i) If information is available in appendix I of this subpart to identify the applicable emission-critical parameters, the aftermarket part certifier must use such information.

(ii) If sampling and analysis of original equipment or previously certified parts is relied upon, the aftermarket part certifier must use sound statistical sampling techniques to ascertain the mean and range of the applicable emission parameters.

(iii) If an aftermarket part replaces more than one part on the same application, it may be certified only if the aftermarket part meets the applicable emission-critical parameters of ยง 85.2122 for each part or parts which the aftermarket part is to replace. If an aftermarket part is to replace more than one part or an entire system, compliance must be demonstrated for all emission-critical parameters involved, except those which relate solely to the interface between the parts being replaced by the aftermarket part.
