
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2114 Basis of certification.
####### Prior to certifying,

(a)the aftermarket part manufacturer must determine:

(1) Whether the part to be certified is an emission related part as defined in ยง 85.2102. The MOD Director shall deny certification to any parts which he or she determines is not an emission related part.

(2) The vehicle or engine configurations for which this part is being certified. These are the vehicle and engine designs for which the aftermarket part manufacturer intends to sell the certified aftermarket part.

(3) Whether the part qualifies under one of the part categories, listed in ยง 85.2122 of this subpart that are eligible to certify using emission critical parameters and, if so, whether the manufacturer elects to demonstrate certification using emission critical parameters. An aftermarket part may be certified under this category only if the part's emission-critical parameters, as set forth in ยง 85.2122, are equivalent to those of the original equipment or previously certified part it is to replace. Compliance with the emission-critical parameters discussed in paragraph (b) of this section may be demonstrated by compliance with the relevant test procedures and criteria specified in appendix I to this subpart. The requirements of this paragraph apply to all on-road vehicles and engines. Alternatively, the manufacturer may elect to demonstrate certification compliance according to the emission test procedures described in paragraph (c) of this section.
