
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2114 Basis of certification.
####### For parts certifying on the basis of emission test results, durability demonstration testing shall be conducted as follows.

(c)(1) Prior to certification emission testing, the actual aftermarket part used for certification testing must meet the durability demonstration requirements of this paragraph for at least the part's useful life mileage interval.

(i) If an original equipment part has no scheduled replacement interval, then the useful life mileage interval of the aftermarket part of that type or which replaces the function of that part may be certified with a service interval less than the useful life of the motor vehicle or motor vehicle engine, or

(ii) If any provision of 40 CFR part 86 establishes a minimum replacement or service interval for an original equipment part during vehicle or engine certification, then the useful life mileage interval of the aftermarket part of that type or which replaces the function of that part is said minimum interval.

(2) The part manufacturer must decide whether it can demonstrate to the MOD Director that, during normal vehicle operation, the candidate part will not accelerate deterioration of any original equipment emission related parts. This demonstration must be based on technical rationale that shows that the candidate part has no significant physical or operational effect on any original emission components or system which would be different than that experienced by the vehicle operating with all original equipment emission system parts. The part's effect on each major emission system must be addressed separately in the demonstration.

(i) If the aftermarket part to be certified accelerates deterioration of any existing emission related parts then certification shall be carried out as specified under the paragraph (c)(3) of this section for parts that accelerate deterioration of existing emission related parts.

(ii) If the aftermarket part manufacturer can demonstrate that the part to be certified will not accelerate deterioration of any existing emission related components, then the manufacturer can certify according to paragraph (c)(4) in this section for parts demonstrated to not accelerate deterioration of existing emission related parts.
