
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2114 Basis of certification.
####### For aftermarket parts demonstrated not to accelerate deterioration on existing emission related parts during normal operation,

(4)the part manufacturer must determine whether the part will cause a noticeable change in vehicle driveability.

(i) Parts that cause no noticeable change in vehicle driveability, performance, and/or fuel economy when the part fails, the durability driving schedules contained in part 86, appendix IV can be used. As an alternative, the aftermarket part manufacturer may use a different durability procedure if it can demonstrate to the MOD Director that the alternative procedure results in an improved technical evaluation of the part's influence on vehicle or engine emissions for its useful life mileage interval, or results in a significant cost savings to the aftermarket part manufacturer with no loss in technical validity compared to the durability schedules in part 86, appendix IV. The aftermarket part manufacturer shall receive the written approval from the MOD Director prior to implementation of the alternative procedures.

(ii) Parts demonstrated to cause a noticeable change in vehicle driveability, performance, and/or fuel economy when the part fails, are exempt from aging if the part manufacturer can demonstrate to the MOD Director that the primary failure mode of the aftermarket component or system affects the driveability, performance, and/or fuel economy of the vehicle at a level readily detectable by the driver and likely to result in near term repair of failing components and correction of the emissions failure. (Use of on-board diagnostics and malfunction indicators as covered in paragraph (g) of this section is not necessarily an adequate demonstration that the certified part will be replaced. The part manufacturer must demonstrate that the diagnostic and malfunction indicator system will routinely result in repair or replacement of the part in use).
