
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2114 Basis of certification.
####### Provided, That

(iii) Other portions therein which the part manufacturer believes are not relevant;the part manufacturer has requested and been granted a waiver in writing by the MOD Director for excluding such portion.

(3) Exhaust Emission Testing. Certification exhaust emission testing for aftermarket parts shall be carried out in the following manner:

(i) For light duty vehicle parts that accelerate deterioration of existing emission related parts, at least one emission test is required. The test(s) shall be performed according to the Federal Test Procedure on the same test vehicle and aftermarket part combination that was previously aged as required. The results of all tests performed shall be averaged for each emission constituent. The average values shall meet all applicable Federal emission requirements under section 202 of the Act.

(A) For aftermarket parts where the comparable original equipment part has no recommended replacement interval, the same part and vehicle combination used for the durability demonstration shall be used for certification exhaust emission testing.

(B) For aftermarket parts where the comparable original equipment part has a recommended replacement interval of less than 50,000 miles, one of the aftermarket parts that accumulated at least the part's useful life mileage during the durability demonstration must be installed on the durability demonstration vehicle that has accumulated 50,000 miles for certification exhaust emission testing.

(ii) For light duty truck parts that accelerate deterioration of existing emission related parts.

(A) An emission test shall be performed on emission test vehicles at 4000 miles and at 50,000 miles, with the part installed. Exhaust emission deterioration factors for the test vehicle shall be calculated from these two test results. The aftermarket part manufacturer may elect to perform other emission tests at interim mileages. However, any interim tests must be spaced at equal mileage intervals. If more than one test is performed at any one mileage point, then all tests at this point shall be averaged prior to determining the deterioration factor. The deterioration factor shall be calculated using the least squares straight line method, in accordance with ยง 86.088-28(a). The deterioration factor for each emission constituent shall be used to linearly project the 50,000 mile test result out to 120,000 miles. The projected 120,000 mile test result shall meet light duty truck emission standards.

(B) As an option, the light-duty truck part manufacturer may durability age the test vehicle and aftermarket part to 120,000 miles, and then perform one Federal Test Procedure test. The actual test results in this case must pass all Federal emission standards.

(iii) For parts demonstrated to not accelerate deterioration of existing emission related parts during normal operation:

(A) If parts cause no noticeable change in vehicle driveability, performance, and/or fuel economy when the part fails, the certification exhaust emission test vehicle need not be the same vehicle as that used for durability demonstration. Upon completion of aging, one Federal Test Procedure test shall be performed with the aged aftermarket part installed on a test vehicle that has just completed one Federal Test Procedure test in the original equipment configuration (i.e., before the aftermarket part or system is installed). If more than one test is performed either before or after the aftermarket part is installed, then an equivalent number of tests must be performed in both configurations. The results of all tests performed before the part is installed shall be averaged and the results of all tests performed after the part is installed shall be averaged for each emission constituent. The difference in Federal Test Procedure emission results between the tests with the aged aftermarket part installed and the test vehicle in the original equipment configuration shall be less than or equal to the certification vehicle emission margin of any and all of the certification test vehicles from the various configurations for which the aftermarket part is being certified.

(B) For parts demonstrated to cause a noticeable change in vehicle driveability, performance, and/or fuel economy when the part fails, no durability aging of the part is required before certification emission testing. One Federal Test Procedure test shall be performed on the test vehicle in its original equipment configuration (i.e., before the aftermarket part or system is installed) and one test with an aftermarket part representative of production (as provided in paragraph (e) of this section) installed on the test vehicle. If more than one test is performed either before or after the aftermarket part is installed, then an equivalent number of tests must be performed in both configurations. The results of all tests performed with the aftermarket part installed shall be averaged and the results of all tests performed in the original equipment configuration shall be averaged for each emission constituent. The difference in Federal Test Procedure emission results between the tests with the aftermarket part installed and the test vehicle in the original equipment configuration shall be less than or equal to the certification vehicle emission margin of any and all of the certification test vehicles from the various configurations for which the aftermarket part is being certified.

(4) Evaporative emission testing. For parts determined by the part manufacturer (with appropriate technical rationale) to affect only evaporative emissions performance, at least one evaporative emissions portion of the Federal Test Procedure test shall be performed on the vehicle in its original equipment configuration and at least one with the aftermarket part installed. Both the original equipment and aftermarket part shall be aged according to paragraph (c)(5) of this section prior to testing. If more than one test is performed either before or after the aftermarket part is installed, then an equivalent number of tests must be performed in both configurations. The emission results of all tests performed before the part is installed shall be averaged and the emission results of all tests performed after the part is installed shall be averaged. The difference in Federal Test Procedure emission results between the tests with the aged aftermarket part installed and the test vehicle in the original equipment configuration shall be less than or equal to the certification vehicle emission margin of any and all of the certification test vehicles from the various configurations for which the aftermarket part is being certified.

(5) Emission test vehicle selection: The test vehicle used must represent the "worst case" with respect to emissions of all those configurations for which the aftermarket part is being certified. The worst case configuration shall be that configuration which, having the aftermarket part installed, is least likely to meet the applicable emission standards among all those configurations on which the aftermarket part is intended to be installed as a certified aftermarket part. One of the following two methods shall be used to select the worst case emission test vehicle(s):

(i) In the first method, the selection shall be based on a technical judgment by the aftermarket part manufacturer of the impact of the particular design or calibration of a particular parameter or combination of parameters and/or an analysis of appropriate data, or

(ii) In the second alternative method, two defined worst case test vehicles shall be selected from the vehicle configurations using the following criteria:

(A) The first test vehicle is that engine family for which the largest number of parts are projected to be sold. Within that family the manufacturer shall select the configurations with the heaviest equivalent test weight, and then within that group the configuration with the largest displacement engine.

(B) The second test vehicle shall be from a different vehicle manufacturer than the first test vehicle, or if the aftermarket part applies to only one vehicle manufacturer, from a different engine family. Engine families are determined by the vehicle manufacturer or when certifying under 40 CFR part 86. Within that group, the second test vehicle is selected from the vehicle configurations with the heaviest equivalent test weight, and then, within that group, the configuration with the largest displacement engine. If a part applies to only one engine family then only the vehicle specified in paragraph (d)(5)(ii)(A), of this section, is required to be tested.

(iii) The results of certification tests using the worst case vehicle selections made in this section shall only be applicable for configurations that are required to meet the same or less stringent (numerically higher) emission standards than those of the worst case configuration.

(iv) The worst case test vehicle(s) selected for certification emission testing is(are) not required to meet Federal emission standards in its original configuration. However, each test vehicle shall have representative emissions performance that is close to the standards and have no obvious emission defects. Each test vehicle shall be tuned properly and set to the vehicle manufacturer's specifications before testing is performed. Any excessively worn or malfunctioning emission related part shall be repaired prior to testing.
