
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2117 Warranty and dispute resolution.
####### Warranty.

(a)(1) As a condition of certification, the aftermarket part manufacturer shall warrant that if the certified part is properly installed it will not cause a vehicle to exceed Federal emission requirements as determined by an emission test approved by EPA under section 207(b)(1) of the Act. This aftermarket part warranty shall extend for the remaining performance warranty period of any vehicle on which the part is installed, or for the warranty period specified for an equivalent original equipment component, if this period is shorter than the remaining warranty period of the vehicle.

(2) The aftermarket part manufacturer's minimum obligation under this warranty shall be to reimburse vehicle manufacturers for all reasonable expenses incurred as a result of honoring a valid emission performance warranty claim which arises because of the use of the certified aftermarket part.

(3) The procedure used to process a certified aftermarket part warranty claim is as follows. The time requirements are in units of calendar days.

(i) The vehicle manufacturer shall submit, by certified mail or another method by which date of receipt can be established, a bill for reasonable expenses incurred to the part manufacturer for reimbursement. Accompanying the bill shall be a letter to the part manufacturer with an explanation of how the certified part caused the failure and a copy of the warranty repair order or receipt establishing the date that the performance repair was initiated by the vehicle owner.

(ii) The parts retained pursuant to ยง 85.2107(c)(1) shall be retained until the reimbursement process is resolved. The vehicle manufacturer shall store these parts or transfer these parts to the involved certified part manufacturer for storage. If the vehicle manufacturer transfers these parts to the certified part manufacturer, the part manufacturer shall retain these parts:

(A) For at least one year from the date of repair involving these parts, if the part manufacturer does not receive a bill from the vehicle manufacturer within that time period, or

(B) Until the claim reimbursement process has been resolved, if the part manufacturer receives a bill from the vehicle manufacturer within one year of the date of repair involving these parts.

(iii) If the vehicle manufacturer transfers the parts retained pursuant to paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section to the part manufacturer, a bill shall be submitted to the part manufacturer within one year of the date of initiation of the actual repair by the vehicle owner. If this requirement is not met, the vehicle manufacturer shall forfeit all rights to the reimbursement provisions provided in this regulation.

(iv) Storage costs are not reimbursable as part of a performance warranty claim.
