
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### § 85.2116 Objections to certification.

(a) At any time prior to the end of the 45-day period after a notification of intent to certify an aftermarket part is received as specified in § 85.2115, the MOD Director may notify the manufacturer of the aftermarket part that such aftermarket part may not be certified pending further investigation. The basis upon which this notification shall be made may include, but not be limited to, information or test results which indicate:

(1) Compliance with the applicable emission-critical parameters was not achieved or that the testing methods used to demonstrate compliance with the emission-critical parameters were inadequate;

(2) The part is to be certified on the basis of emission testing, and the procedure used in such tests was not in compliance with those portions of the Federal Test Procedure not waived pursuant to § 85.2114(d)(2).

(3) Use of the certified part may cause a vehicle to exceed any applicable emission requirements;

(4) The durability requirement of § 85.2114 has not been complied with;

(5) Use of the certified part could cause or contribute to an unreasonable risk to public health, welfare or safety in its operation or function;

(6) Installation of the certified part requires procedures or equipment which would likely cause it to be improperly installed under normal conditions or would likely result in a vehicle being misadjusted; or

(7) Information and/or data required to be in the notification of intent to certify as provided by § 85.2115 have not been provided or may be inadequate; or,

(8) Documentation submitted under § 85.2114(c)(4)(ii) was determined inadequate for durability exemption.

(b) The aftermarket part manufacturer must respond in writing to the statements made in the notification by the MOD Director, or the aftermarket part manufacturer shall withdraw its notification of intent to certify.

(1) Any party interested in the outcome of a decision as to whether a part may be certified may provide the MOD Director with any relevant written information up to ten days after the manufacturer responds to the MOD Director's objection.

(2) Any interested party may request additional time to respond to the information submitted by the part manufacturer. The MOD Director upon a showing of good cause by the interested party may grant an extension of time to reply up to 30 days.

(3) The part manufacturer may reply to information submitted by interested parties. Notification of intent to reply shall be submitted to the MOD Director within 10 days of the date information from interested parties is submitted to the MOD Director.

(4) The MOD Director may, at his or her discretion, allow oral presentations by the aftermarket manufacturer or any interested party in connection with a contested part certification.

(c) If an objection has been sent to an aftermarket part manufacturer pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section, the MOD Director shall, after reviewing all pertinent data and information, render a decision and inform the aftermarket part manufacturer in writing as to whether such part may be certified and, if so, under what conditions the part may be certified. The written decision shall include an explanation of the reasons therefor.

(1) The decision by the MOD Director shall be provided to the manufacturer within 30 working days of receipt of all necessary information by the manufacturer or interested parties, or of the date of any oral presentation regarding the certification, whichever occurs second.

(2) A copy of the decision shall be sent to all identified interested parties.

(3) Within 20 days of receipt of a decision made pursuant to this subsection, any party may file a written appeal to the Office Director. The Office Director may, in his or her discretion, allow additional oral or written submissions, prior to rendering a final decision. The schedule for such submission shall be in accordance with the schedule specified in § 85.2116(b).

(4) If no party files an appeal with the Office Director within 20 days, then the decision of the MOD Director shall be final.

(5) The Office Director shall make a final decision regarding the certification of a part within 30 working days of receipt of all necessary information by the part manufacturer or from the date of any oral presentation, whichever occurs later.

(6) A copy of all final decisions made under this section shall be published in the
