
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2122 Emission-critical parameters.
####### Carburetor Vacuum Break (Choke Pull-Off).

(1)(i) The emission-critical parameters for carburetor vacuum breaks are:

(A) Diaphragm Displacement.

(B) Timed Delay.

(C) Modulated Stem Displacement.

(D) Modulated Stem Displacement Force.

(E) Vacuum Leakage.

(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph:

(A) "Diaphragm Displacement" means the distance through which the center of the diaphragm moves when activated. In the case of a non-modulated stem, diaphragm displacement corresponds to stem displacement.

(B) "Timed Delay" means a delayed diaphragm displacement controlled to occur within a given time period.

(C) "Modulated Stem Displacement" means the distance through which the modulated stem may move when actuated independent of diaphragm displacement.

(D) "Modulated Stem Displacement Force" means the amount of force required at start and finish of a modulated stem displacement.

(E) "Vacuum Leakage" means leakage into the vacuum cavity of a vacuum break.

(F) "Vacuum Break" ("Choke Pull-off") means a vacuum-operated device to open the carburetor choke plate a predetermined amount on cold start.

(G) "Modulated Stem" means a stem attached to the vacuum break diaphragm in such a manner as to allow stem displacement independent of diaphragm displacement.

(H) "Vacuum Purge System" means a vacuum system with a controlled air flow to purge the vacuum system of undesirable manifold vapors.
