
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2117 Warranty and dispute resolution.
####### Dispute resolution.

(b)(1) The part manufacturer shall respond to the vehicle manufacturer within 30 days of receipt of the bill by paying the claim or requesting a meeting to resolve any disagreement. A meeting shall occur within the next two week period. At this meeting the parties shall, in all good faith, attempt to resolve their disagreement. Discussions should be completed within 60 days of receipt of the bill for the warranty claim by the part manufacturer.

(2) If the parties cannot resolve their disagreement within 60 days, either party may file for arbitration. Neither party may file for arbitration within 60 days unless both parties agree to seek arbitration prior to the end of the 60-day period. If, after 60 days, either party files, then both parties shall submit to arbitration.

(3) This arbitration shall be carried out pursuant to the Arbitration Rules contained in appendix II of this subpart which are based on Commercial Arbitration Rules published by the American Arbitration Association, revised and in effect as of September 1, 1988. The Arbitration Rules detail the procedures to be followed by the parties and the arbitrator in resolving disputes under this section. They can be varied only with the agreement of both parties. If either involved manufacturer refuses to participate in the arbitration process, that party is treated as if it had lost the arbitration and is required to pay all reasonable expenses.

(4) Any party losing the arbitration has the right to resort to an appropriate federal district court or state court, subject to the established rules of that court regarding subject matter jurisdiction and personal jurisdiction.

(5) If the vehicle manufacturer wins the arbitration, the part manufacturer must provide reimbursement in accordance with the arbitrator's award and decision. Such reimbursement must be made within 30 days of the award and decision.

(6)(i) If the part manufacturer refuses to pay a lost arbitration award, the involved part will be decertified pursuant to 40 CFR 85.2121, provided that if the part manufacturer resorts to a court of competent jurisdiction, decertification will be withheld pending the outcome of such judicial determination.

(ii) In addition, under these circumstances, the vehicle manufacturer has the right to bring an enforcement action on the arbitration award and decision in the appropriate federal district court or state court, subject to the established rules of that court regarding subject matter jurisdiction and personal jurisdiction. If this court agrees with the arbitrator's award and decision, reimbursement shall be made within 30 days of the court's decision unless the court orders otherwise.
