
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2122 Emission-critical parameters.
####### Carburetor Choke Thermostats.

(2)(i) The emission-critical parameters for all Choke Thermostats are:

(A) Thermal Deflection Rate.

(B) Mechanical Torque Rate.

(C) Index Mark Position.

(ii) The emission-critical parameters for Electrically-Heated Choke Thermostats are:

(A) Those parameters set forth in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section

(B) Time to rotate coil tang when electrically energized

(C) Electrical circuit resistance

(D) Electrical switching temperature

(iii) For the purpose of this paragraph:

(A) "Choke" means a device to restrict air flow into a carburetor in order to enrich the air/fuel mixture delivered to the engine by the carburetor during cold-engine start and cold-engine operation.

(B) "Thermostat" means a temperature-actuated device.

(C) "Electrically-heated Choke" means a device which contains a means for applying heat to the thermostatic coil by electrical current.

(D) "Thermostatic Coil" means a spiral-wound coil of thermally-sensitive material which provides rotary force (torque) and/or displacement as a function of applied temperature.

(E) "Thermostatic Switch" means an element of thermally-sensitive material which acts to open or close an electrical circuit as a function of temperature.

(F) "Mechanical Torque Rate" means a term applied to a thermostatic coil, defined as the torque accumulation per angular degree of deflection of a thermostatic coil.

(G) "Thermal Deflection Rate" means the angular degrees of rotation per degree of temperature change of the thermostatic coil.

(H) "Index or Index Mark" means a mark on a choke thermostat housing, located in a fixed relationship to the thermostatic coil tang position to aid in assembly and service adjustment of the choke.

(I) "PTC Type Choke Heaters" means a positive termperature coefficient resistant ceramic disc capable of providing heat to the thermostatic coil when electrically energized.
