
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### ยง 85.2122 Emission-critical parameters.
####### Oxidizing Catalytic Converter.

(15)(i) The emission-critical parameters for oxidizing catalytic converters are:

(A) Conversion Efficiency.

(B) Light-off Time.

(C) Mechanical and Thermal Integrity.

(ii) For the purposes of this paragraph including the relevant test procedures in the appendix:

(A) "Catalytic Converter" means a device installed in the exhaust system of an internal combustion engine that utilizes catalytic action to oxidize hydrocarbon (HC) and carbon monoxide (CO) emissions to carbon dioxide (CO) and water (HO).

(B) "Conversion Efficiency" means the measure of the catalytic converter's ability to oxidize HC/CO to CO/HO under fully warmed-up conditions stated as a percentage calculated by the following formula:

(C) "Light-off Time" or "LOT" means the time required for a catalytic converter (at ambient temperature 68-86 &#xB0;F) to warm-up sufficiently to convert 50% of the incoming HC and CO to COand HO.

(D) "Peak Air Flow" means the maximum engine intake mass air flow rate measure during the 195 second to 202 second time interval of the Federal Test Procedure.

(E) "Feed Gas" means the chemical composition of the exhaust gas measured at the converter inlet.

(F) "Aged Catalytic Converter" means a converter that has been installed on a vehicle or engine stand and operated thru a cycle specifically designed to chemically age, including exposure to representative lead concentrations, and mechanically stress the catalytic converter in a manner representative of in-use vehicle or engine conditions.

(G) "Mechanical and Thermal Intergrity" means the ability of a converter to continue to operate at its previously determined efficiency and light-off time and be free from exhaust leaks when subject to thermal and mechanical stresses representative of the intended application.
