
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Test Procedure and Criteria

1.

a. Vacuum leakage: Apply 457 +/-13 mm (18.0 +/-0.5 inches) Hg. vacuum to the vacuum unit to achieve full diaphragm displacement. Seal vacuum source to unit. There shall be no visible loss of diaphragm displacement or drop in vacuum gauge reading after a 15 second observation. Vacuum purge system and diaphragm displacement adjusting screw holes should be temporarily sealed during this test when applicable.

b. Diaphragm displacement: At stabilized temperature of -29 &#xB0;C and 121 &#xB0;C (-20 &#xB0;F and 250 &#xB0;F) with 457 +/-13 mm (18.0 +/-0.5 inches) Hg. vacuum applied to unit, the diaphragm displacement shall be within +/-1 mm (0.04 inches) of the nominal original equipment displacement. The vacuum purge system must be open during this test when applicable. Adjusting screws that limit displacement should be temporarily removed and adjusting screw holes temporarily sealed during this test.

c. Timed delay (when applicable): With 457 +/-13 mm (18.0 +/-0.5 inches) Hg. applied to the unit, the vacuum break diaphragm displacement shall occur within +/-20% of the original equipment time over the specified range of displacement. The diaphragm displacement shall be timed over the same distance for the original equipment as the replacement part and shall not be less than 60% of the total displacement range. The vacuum purge system must be open and the adjusting screw holes should be temporarily sealed during this test when applicable.

d. Modulated stem displacement (when applicable): With a force sufficient to extend the modulated stem to its full displacement, the displacement shall be within +/-0.8 mm (+/-0.03 inches) of the original equipment specification.

e. Modulated stem displacement force (when applicable): The force required to start and finish the modulated stem displacement shall be within +/-35% of the original equipment specification for forces up to 142 grams (5 ounces) and shall be within +/-20% of the original equipment specification for forces exceeding 142 grams (5 ounces).
