
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Test Procedures and Criteria

1.

a. The electrostatic capacitance of the replacement condenser shall be within +/-20% of the value of the original part at 20 +/-3 &#xB0;C (68 +/-5 &#xB0;F). The capacitance is to be measured on a capacitance bridge having an accuracy of +/-1% at 1 KHz frequency.

b. Set up the test system in accordance with Figure 1. The condenser series resistance shall be such that the output voltage at 500 distributor rpm with the replacement condenser shall not be less than 90% of the output voltage (M-3) with the original equipment condenser.

c. The capacitor must be able to withstand a minimum test voltage of 500V DC for a minimum of 0.1 seconds without failure.

d. (1) Measure capacitance after 4 hours minimum soak at 70&#xB0; (158 &#xB0;F).

(2) After one hour at room temperature, place capacitor at -18 &#xB0;C (0 &#xB0;F) for 4 hours minimum and measure capacitance.

(3) Place capacitor at room temperature for 4 hours minimum and measure capacitance.

e. After thermal cycling, repeat 1.a. and b. The results must be within +/-10 percent of the intital measurements.
