
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Durability Procedures

2.

a. Set up test system in accordance with circuit and equipment per Figure 1.

b. Install the cap and/or rotor under test in distributor, lubricate and adjust per applicable vehicle manufacturer's specifications. Use equivalent coil, primary resistor, breaker points and capacitor.

c. Connect the primary of the test system with a power supply regulated at 14 +/-0.5 V D.C.

1. In breaker point operated systems, connect secondary to a 12 KV+/-2 KV gap.

2. In electronic ignition systems, connect secondary to a gap equivalent to at least 50% of peak open-circuit voltage.

d. An external heat source shall generate an ambient temperature of 70&#xB0; (158 &#xB0;F) for the distributor.

e. Distributor shall be driven at 1750 +/-50 rpm for 200 hours. After each 50 hours interval, run the distributor for 5 minutes with one open-circuit spark gap instead of a 12KV gap.

f. The replacement part(s) must have the capability of performing throughout the duration of the test without evidence of any failure resulting in loss of spark at the spark gap.

g. Repeat step 1.c. above. The open circuit output voltage must be at least 90% of that measured in step 1.c.

h. The replacement cap and/or rotor must be free of any visual cracks, arcing or melting.
