
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Durability Procedures

2.

a. Set up a bench ignition system using an applicable distributor or electro-mechanical equivalent.

b. Install the breaker point assembly under test in the distributor, lubricate and adjust per applicable vehicle manufacturer's specifications. Use applicable coil, primary resistor, capacitor, cap and rotor.

c. Connect the primary of the test system with a power supply regulated at 14 +/-0.5 V DC for a 12V system.

d. The secondary portion of the test system is to be connected to a 12 +/-2KV spark gap.

e. An external heat source shall generate an ambient temperature of 70&#xB0; (158 &#xB0;F) for the distributor.

f. Drive the distributor at 1750 +/-50 rpm for 200 hours. After each 50 hour interval, run the distributor for 5 minutes with one open circuit spark gap instead of a 12KV gap.

g. The replacement breaker point assembly must have the capability of performing throughout the duration of the test without evidence of any failure resulting in loss of spark in the 12KV spark gap.

h. After the 200 hours repeat step 1.c. above. The open circuit output voltage must be at least 90% of that measured in 1.c.
