
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Test Procedures and Criteria

1.

a. Set up test system circuit and equipment per Figure 1 with an OE breaker point assembly. Connect the primary to a 14 +/-.5 V DC regulated power supply.

b. Record dwell angle and open-circuit output voltage at 300 and 500 distributor rpm and at 500 rpm intervals up to the maximum speed of the intended application.

c. Insert the replacement part in the test system and repeat the observations per b above under identical test conditions.

d. The data observed with the replacement part in the system must meet the following criteria:

(1) The dwell angle change: Not to exceed that of the original equipment by more than +/-2&#xB0; at all measured rpm intervals.

(2) The open circuit output voltage (M-3): Not less than 90% of the OE breaker point assembly at any measured rpm.

e. Repeat step c above at -40 &#xB0;C (-40 &#xB0;F) and 100 &#xB0;C (212 &#xB0;F).

f. The breaker points shall operate without evidence of point bounce at all test speeds and temperatures and shall operate easily without binding when operated manually.
