
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Other Considerations.

2.

(a) Replacement converter must fit within the width and length space envelope of the original equipment converter. Converter spacing from the underbody and for ground clearance must be the same or greater than the original equipment converter application.

(b) Pressure drop measured between inlet and outlet pipe interconnecting points on the replacement converter shall be within +/-25% of similar measurements for the original equipment converter being replaced, when measured at each of three flow conditions 50 SCFM, 100 SCFM, and 150 SCFM with a suitable fluid medium such as air. Maximum allowable exhaust gas leakage from the replacement coverter shall be 0.4 cubic feet per minute measured at 4.0 pounds per square inch differential. All measurements must be normalized to equal density conditions.

(c) Converter skin temperature shall be measured during the converter efficiency test. The skin temperature for the replacement converter must equal or be less than that for the original equipment converter.
