
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 85 - CONTROL OF AIR POLLUTION FROM MOBILE SOURCES
##### Subpart V - Warranty Regulations and Voluntary Aftermarket Part Certification Program
###### Appendix I to Subpart V of Part 85 - Recommended Test Procedures and Test Criteria and Recommended Durability Procedures To Demonstrate Compliance With Emission Critical Parameters
####### Test Procedures and Criteria.

1.

(a) The fresh and aged conversion efficiencies of the replacement oxidizing catalytic converter shall be equal to or exceed those of the original equipment converter for CO and HC emissions. The fresh and aged Light-off Time (LOT) of the replacement converter shall be equal to or less than those of the original equipment converter for CO and HC emissions. These parameters shall be determined for both fresh and aged converters under the same conditions using the following steady state feed gas concentrations and conditions for LOT and Conversion Efficiency respectively:

(i) LOT tests shall be conducted by exposing the converter to a step change in temperature, from ambient to that specified above: 650&#xB0;-850 &#xB0;F. Converter inlet and outlet exhaust emissions as measured. Light-off Time is then determined by recording the time required for the converter to reduce the outlet emissions (HC and CO) to 50% of the inlet emissions, on a volumetric concentration basis, measured from the step temperature change.

(ii) Conversion efficiency measurements shall be obtained by passing stabilized-feed gas through the converter (at conditions specified above) and making simultaneous measurements of inlet and outlet emission volume concentrations. The conversion efficiency for CO and HC is then calculated.

(iii) The particular conditions for which LOT and conversion efficiency are measured (i.e., exhaust mass flow rate, total hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, hydrogen, oxygen, and converter inlet temperature) for the replacement converter and original equipment converter tests must not vary from one another by more than 10%.

(b) Fresh and aged catalytic converters may be obtained by operating the converter on individual vehicle or engine application for which it is intended on the Federal Test Procedure road durability driving cycle. A fresh converter results when the converter has operated between 2000 and 5000 miles or equivalent hours. An aged converter results when the converter has been operated for the warranted life of the original equipment converter.

(c) Where one generic converter is intended to cover multiple vehicle or engine configurations, converter aging may be obtained per Paragraph (b) above, on a vehicle or engine which represents the greatest peak air flow of the group of vehicle configurations to be covered, and whose calibration and feed gas concentrations are representative of the vehicle or engine configurations being certified for.
