
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.001-2 Definitions.
####### Useful life

means:

(1) For light-duty vehicles, and for light light-duty trucks not subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9(a), intermediate useful life and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except as otherwise noted in § 86.094-9. The useful life of evaporative and/or refueling emission control systems on the portion of these vehicles subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.130-96, and/or the refueling emission test requirements of § 86.151-2001, is defined as a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(2) For light light-duty trucks subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9(a), and for heavy light-duty truck engine families, intermediate and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first. The useful life of evaporative emission and/or refueling control systems on the portion of these vehicles subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.130-96, and/or the refueling emission test requirements of § 86.151-2001, is also defined as a period of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(3) For an Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine family:

(i) For hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide standards, a period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(ii) For the oxides of nitrogen standard, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(iii) For the portion of evaporative emission control systems subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.1230-96, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(4) For a diesel heavy-duty engine family:

(i) For light heavy-duty diesel engines, for hydrocarbon, carbon monoxide, and particulate standards, a period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(ii) For light heavy-duty diesel engines, for the oxides of nitrogen standard, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(iii) For medium heavy-duty diesel engines, for hydrocarbon, carbon monoxide, and particulate standards, a period of use of 8 years or 185,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(iv) For medium heavy-duty diesel engines, for the oxides of nitrogen standard, a period of use of 10 years or 185,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(v) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines, for hydrocarbon, carbon monoxide, and particulate standards, a period of use of 8 years or 290,000 miles, whichever first occurs, except as provided in paragraph (4)(vii) of this definition.

(vi) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines, for the oxides of nitrogen standard, a period of use of 10 years or 290,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(vii) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines used in urban buses, for the particulate standard, a period of use of 10 years or 290,000 miles, whichever first occurs.
