
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.001-21 Application for certification.
####### 1

(b)(1)(i)(C)()-(b)(1)(ii)(C) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.094-21.

(b)(2) Projected U.S. sales data sufficient to enable the Administrator to select a test fleet representative of the vehicles (or engines) for which certification is requested, and data sufficient to determine projected compliance with the standards implementation schedules of § 86.000-8 and 86.000-9. Volume projected to be produced for U.S. sale may be used in lieu of projected U.S. sales.

(b)(3) A description of the test equipment and fuel proposed to be used.

(b)(4)(i) For light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, a description of the test procedures to be used to establish the evaporative emission and/or refueling emission deterioration factors, as appropriate, required to be determined and supplied in § 86.001-23(b)(2).

(b)(4)(ii)-(b)(5)(iv) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.094-21.

(b)(5)(v) For light-duty vehicles and applicable light-duty trucks with non-integrated refueling emission control systems, the number of continuous UDDS cycles, determined from the fuel economy on the UDDS applicable to the test vehicle of that evaporative/refueling emission family-emission control system combination, required to use a volume of fuel equal to 85% of fuel tank volume.

(b)(6)-(b)(8) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.094-21.

(b)(9) For each light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, evaporative/refueling emission family or heavy-duty vehicle evaporative emission family, a description of any unique procedures required to perform evaporative and/or refueling emission tests, as applicable, (including canister working capacity, canister bed volume, and fuel temperature profile for the running loss test) for all vehicles in that evaporative and/or evaporative/refueling emission family, and a description of the method used to develop those unique procedures.

(10) For each light-duty vehicle or applicable light-duty truck evaporative/refueling emission family, or each heavy-duty vehicle evaporative emission family:

(i) Canister working capacity, according to the procedures specified in § 86.132-96(h)(1)(iv);

(ii) Canister bed volume; and

(iii) Fuel temperature profile for the running loss test, according to the procedures specified in § 86.129-94(d).

(c)-(j) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.094-21.

(k) and (l) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.096-21.
