
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.004-2 Definitions.
####### Useful life

means:

(1) For light-duty vehicles, and for light light-duty trucks not subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9(a), intermediate useful life and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except as otherwise noted in § 86.094-9. The useful life of evaporative and/or refueling emission control systems on the portion of these vehicles subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.130-96, and/or the refueling emission test requirements of § 86.151-98, is defined as a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(2) For light light-duty trucks subject to the Tier 0 standards of § 86.094-9(a), and for heavy light-duty truck engine families, intermediate and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first. The useful life of evaporative emission and/or refueling control systems on the portion of these vehicles subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.130-96, and/or the refueling emission test requirements of § 86.151-98, is also defined as a period of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(3) For an Otto-cycle HDE family:

(i) For hydrocarbon and carbon monoxide standards, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(ii) For the oxides of nitrogen standard, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(iii) For the portion of evaporative emission control systems subject to the evaporative emission test requirements of § 86.1230-96, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(4) For a diesel HDE family:

(i) For light heavy-duty diesel engines, for carbon monoxide, particulate, and oxides of nitrogen plus non-methane hydrocarbons emissions standards, a period of use of 10 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(ii) For medium heavy-duty diesel engines, for carbon monoxide, particulate, and oxides of nitrogen plus non-methane hydrocarbons emission standards, a period of use of 10 years or 185,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(iii) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines, for carbon monoxide, particulate, and oxides of nitrogen plus non-methane hydrocarbon emissions standards, a period of use of 10 years or 435,000 miles, or 22,000 hours, whichever first occurs, except as provided in paragraphs (4)(iv) and (4)(v) of this definition.

(iv) The useful life limit of 22,000 hours in paragraph (4)(iii) of this definition is effective as a limit to the useful life only when an accurate hours meter is provided by the manufacturer with the engine and only when such hours meter can reasonably be expected to operate properly over the useful life of the engine.

(v) For an individual engine, if the useful life hours limit of 22,000 hours is reached before the engine reaches 10 years or 100,000 miles, the useful life shall become 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first, as required under Clean Air Act section 202(d).

(5) As an option for both light-duty trucks under certain conditions and HDE families, an alternative useful life period may be assigned by the Administrator under the provisions of § 86.094-21(f).
