
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.004-11 Emission standards for 2004 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### Particulate.

(iii)(A) For diesel engines to be used in urban buses, 0.05 gram per brake horsepower-hour (0.019 gram per megajoule) for certification testing and selective enforcement audit testing, and 0.07 gram per brake horsepower-hour (0.026 gram per megajoule) for in-use testing, as measured under transient operating conditions.

(B) For all other diesel engines, 0.10 gram per brake horsepower-hour (0.037 gram per megajoule), as measured under transient operating conditions.

(C) A manufacturer may elect to include any or all of its diesel HDE families in any or all of the particulate ABT programs for HDEs, within the restrictions described in ยง 86.004-15 or superseding applicable sections. If the manufacturer elects to include engine families in any of these programs, the particulate FEL may not exceed 0.25 gram per brake horsepower-hour (0.093 gram per megajoule).

(2) The standards set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section refer to the exhaust emitted over the operating schedule set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of appendix I to this part, and measured and calculated in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart N or P of this part, except as noted in ยง 86.098-23(c)(2) or superceding sections.

(b)(1) The opacity of smoke emission from new 2004 and later model year diesel HDEs shall not exceed:

(i) 20 percent during the engine acceleration mode.

(ii) 15 percent during the engine lugging mode.

(iii) 50 percent during the peaks in either mode.

(2) The standards set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section refer to exhaust smoke emissions generated under the conditions set forth in subpart I of this part and measured and calculated in accordance with those procedures.

(3) This paragraph (b)(3) applies as specified in 40 CFR 1037.103. Evaporative emissions (total of non-oxygenated hydrocarbons plus methanol) from heavy-duty vehicles equipped with methanol-fueled diesel engines shall not exceed the following standards. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles. The spitback standard also applies to newly assembled vehicles.

(i) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 14,000 lbs:
