
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.004-11 Emission standards for 2004 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2
######## Credit apportionment.

(j)At the manufacturer's option, credits generated under the provisions described in this section may be sold to or otherwise provided to another party for use in programs other than the averaging, trading and banking program described in this section.

(1) The manufacturer shall pre-identify two emission levels per engine family for the purposes of credit apportionment. One emission level shall be the FEL and the other shall be the level of the standard that the engine family is required to certify to under ยง 86.005-10 or ยง 86.004-11. For each engine family, the manufacturer may report engine sales in two categories, "ABT-only credits" and "nonmanufacturer-owned credits".

(i) For engine sales reported as "ABT-only credits", the credits generated must be used solely in the ABT program described in this section.

(ii) The engine manufacturer may declare a portion of engine sales "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" and this portion of the credits generated between the standard and the FEL, based on the calculation in (c)(1) of this section, would belong to the engine purchaser. For ABT, the manufacturer may not generate any credits for the engine sales reported as "nonmanufacturer-owned credits". Engines reported as "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" shall comply with the FEL and the requirements of the ABT program in all other respects.

(2) Only manufacturer-owned credits reported as "ABT-only credits" shall be used in the averaging, trading, and banking provisions described in this section.

(3) Credits shall not be double-counted. Credits used in the ABT program may not be provided to an engine purchaser for use in another program.

(4) Manufacturers shall determine and state the number of engines sold as "ABT-only credits" and "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" in the end-of-model year reports required under ยง 86.001-23.
