
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.004-11 Emission standards for 2004 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2
######## Averaging sets for NO,plus NMHC emission credits.

(d)The averaging and trading of NOplus NMHC emission credits will only be allowed between heavy-duty engine families in the same averaging set. The averaging sets for the averaging and trading of NOplus NMHC emission credits for heavy-duty engines are defined as follows:

(1) For NO+ NMHC credits from Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines:

(i) Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines constitute an averaging set. Averaging and trading among all Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine families is allowed. There are no subclass restrictions.

(ii) Otto-cycle heavy-duty vehicles certified under the chassis-based provisions of subpart S of this part may not average or trade with heavy-duty Otto-cycle engines except as allowed in ยง 86.1817-05(o).

(2) For NOplus NMHC credits from diesel-cycle heavy-duty engines:

(i) Each of the three primary intended service classes for heavy-duty diesel engines, as defined in ยง 86.004-2, constitute an averaging set. Averaging and trading among all diesel-cycle engine families within the same primary service class is allowed.

(ii) Urban buses are treated as members of the primary intended service class where they otherwise would fall.
