
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.004-11 Emission standards for 2004 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2
######## Overview.

(a)(1) Heavy-duty engines eligible for NOplus NMHC and particulate averaging, trading and banking programs are described in the applicable emission standards sections in this subpart. For manufacturers not selecting Options 1 or 2 contained in § 86.005-10(f), the ABT program requirements contained in § 86.000-15 apply for 2004 model year Otto-cycle engines, rather than the provisions contained in this section. Participation in these programs is voluntary.

(2)(i) Engine families with FELs exceeding the applicable standard shall obtain emission credits in a mass amount sufficient to address the shortfall. Credits may be obtained from averaging, trading, or banking, within the averaging set restrictions described in this section.

(ii) Engine families with FELs below the applicable standard will have emission credits available to average, trade, bank or a combination thereof. Credits may not be used for averaging or trading to offset emissions that exceed an FEL. Credits may not be used to remedy an in-use nonconformity determined by a Selective Enforcement Audit or by recall testing. However, credits may be used to allow subsequent production of engines for the family in question if the manufacturer elects to recertify to a higher FEL.

(b) Participation in the NOplus NMHC and/or particulate averaging, trading, and banking programs shall be done as follows:

(1) During certification, the manufacturer shall:

(i) Declare its intent to include specific engine families in the averaging, trading and/or banking programs. Separate declarations are required for each program and for each pollutant (i.e., NOplus NMHC, and particulate).

(ii) Declare an FEL for each engine family participating in one or more of these two programs.

(A) The FEL must be to the same level of significant digits as the emission standard (one-tenth of a gram per brake horsepower-hour for NOplus NMHC emissions and one-hundredth of a gram per brake horsepower-hour for particulate emissions).

(B) In no case may the FEL exceed the upper limit prescribed in the section concerning the applicable heavy-duty engine NOplus NMHC and particulate emission standards.

(iii) Calculate the projected emission credits (positive or negative) based on quarterly production projections for each participating family and for each pollutant, using the applicable equation in paragraph (c) of this section and the applicable factors for the specific engine family.

(iv)(A) Determine and state the source of the needed credits according to quarterly projected production for engine families requiring credits for certification.

(B) State where the quarterly projected credits will be applied for engine families generating credits.

(C) Credits may be obtained from or applied to only engine families within the same averaging set as described in paragraph (d) or (e) of this section. Credits available for averaging, trading, or banking as defined in § 86.090-2, may be applied exclusively to a given engine family, or reserved as defined in § 86.091-2.

(2) Based on this information each manufacturer's certification application must demonstrate:

(i) That at the end of model year production, each engine family has a net emissions credit balance of zero or more using the methodology in paragraph (c) of this section with any credits obtained from averaging, trading or banking.

(ii) The source of the credits to be used to comply with the emission standard if the FEL exceeds the standard, or where credits will be applied if the FEL is less than the emission standard. In cases where credits are being obtained, each engine family involved must state specifically the source (manufacturer/engine family) of the credits being used. In cases where credits are being generated/supplied, each engine family involved must state specifically the designated use (manufacturer/engine family or reserved) of the credits involved. All such reports shall include all credits involved in averaging, trading or banking.

(3) During the model year manufacturers must:

(i) Monitor projected versus actual production to be certain that compliance with the emission standards is achieved at the end of the model year.

(ii) Provide the end-of-model year reports required under § 86.001-23.

(iii) For manufacturers participating in emission credit trading, maintain the quarterly records required under § 86.091-7(c)(8).

(4) Projected credits based on information supplied in the certification application may be used to obtain a certificate of conformity. However, any such credits may be revoked based on review of end-of-model year reports, follow-up audits, and any other compliance measures deemed appropriate by the Administrator.

(5) Compliance under averaging, banking, and trading will be determined at the end of the model year. Engine families without an adequate amount of NO. NOplus NMHC, and/or particulate emission credits will violate the conditions of the certificate of conformity. The certificates of conformity may be voided ab initio for engine families exceeding the emission standard.

(6) If EPA or the manufacturer determines that a reporting error occurred on an end-of-year report previously submitted to EPA under this section, the manufacturer's credits and credit calculations will be recalculated. Erroneous positive credits will be void. Erroneous negative balances may be adjusted by EPA for retroactive use.

(i) If EPA review of a manufacturer's end-of-year report indicates a credit shortfall, the manufacturer will be permitted to purchase the necessary credits to bring the credit balance for that engine family to zero, using the discount specified in paragraph (c)(1) of this section on the ratio of credits purchased for every credit needed to bring the balance to zero. If sufficient credits are not available to bring the credit balance for the family in question to zero, EPA may void the certificate for that engine family ab initio.

(ii) If within 180 days of receipt of the manufacturer's end-of-year report, EPA review determines a reporting error in the manufacturer's favor (i.e., resulting in a positive credit balance) or if the manufacturer discovers such an error within 180 days of EPA receipt of the end-of-year report, the credits will be restored for use by the manufacturer.

(c)(1) For each participating engine family, NOplus NMHC, and particulate emission credits (positive or negative) are to be calculated according to one of the following equations and rounded, in accordance with ASTM E29-93a (incorporated by reference at § 86.1), to the nearest one-tenth of a Megagram (Mg). Consistent units are to be used throughout the equation.

(i) For determining credit need for all engine families and credit availability for engine families generating credits for averaging programs only:

(ii) For determining credit availability for engine families generating credits for trading or banking programs:

(iii) For purposes of the equation in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section:

(2)(i) The transient cycle conversion factor is the total (integrated) cycle brake horsepower-hour or Megajoules, divided by the equivalent mileage of the applicable transient cycle. For Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, the equivalent mileage is 6.3 miles. For diesel heavy-duty engines, the equivalent mileage is 6.5 miles.

(ii) When more than one configuration is chosen by EPA to be tested in the certification of an engine family (as described in § 86.085-24), the conversion factor used is to be based upon a production weighted average value of the configurations in an engine family to calculate the conversion factor.
