
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.004-11 Emission standards for 2004 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2
######## Use of banked emission credits.

(3)The use of banked credits shall be within the averaging set and other restrictions described in paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section, and only for the following purposes:

(i) Banked credits may be used in averaging, or in trading, or in any combination thereof, during the certification period. Credits declared for banking from the previous model year but not reported to EPA may also be used. However, if EPA finds that the reported credits can not be proven, they will be revoked and unavailable for use.

(ii) Banked credits may not be used for NOplus NMHC or particulate averaging and trading to offset emissions that exceed an FEL. Banked credits may not be used to remedy an in-use nonconformity determined by a Selective Enforcement Audit or by recall testing. However, banked credits may be used for subsequent production of the engine family if the manufacturer elects to recertify to a higher FEL.

(iii) NOcredits banked under paragraph § 86.098-15(j) or § 86.000-15(k) may be used in place of NOplus NMHC credits in 2004 and later model years provided that they are used in the correct averaging set. NOcredits banked under paragraph § 86.000-15(k) may also be used in place of NOplus NMHC credits in the 2003 model year for manufacturers selecting Option 1 contained in § 86.005-10(f)(1), provided that they are used in the correct averaging set.

(iv) Except for early credits banked under § 86.000-15(k), NOcredits banked in accordance with § 86.000-15 may not be used to meet the Otto-cycle engine standards contained in § 86.005-10.

(g)(1) This paragraph (g) assumes NOplus NMHC, and particulate nonconformance penalties (NCPs) will be available for the 2004 and later model year HDEs.

(2) Engine families using NOplus NMHC and/or particulate NCPs but not involved in averaging:

(i) May not generate NOplus NMHC or particulate credits for banking and trading.

(ii) May not use NOplus NMHC or particulate credits from banking and trading.

(3) If a manufacturer has any engine family to which application of NCPs and banking and trading credits is desired, that family must be separated into two distinct families. One family, whose FEL equals the standard, must use NCPs only while the other, whose FEL does not equal the standard, must use credits only.

(4) If a manufacturer has any engine family in a given averaging set which is using NOplus NMHC and/or particulate NCPs, none of that manufacturer's engine families in that averaging set may generate credits for banking and trading.

(h) In the event of a negative credit balance in a trading situation, both the buyer and the seller would be liable.

(i) Certification fuel used for credit generation must be of a type that is both available in use and expected to be used by the engine purchaser. Therefore, upon request by the Administrator, the engine manufacturer must provide information acceptable to the Administrator that the designated fuel is readily available commercially and would be used in customer service.
