
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.004-28 Compliance with emission standards.
####### 3,2,3,3

() An Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine manufacturer who believes that a deterioration factor derived using the calculation methodology described in paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(4)(A)() of this section are significantly unrepresentative for one or more engine families (either too high or too low) may petition the Administrator to allow for the use of an additive rather than a multiplicative deterioration factor. This petition must include full rationale behind the request together with any supporting data or other evidence. Based on this or other information the Administration may allow for an alternative procedure. Any petition should be submitted in a timely manner, to allow adequate time for a thorough evaluation. Manufacturers using an additive deterioration factor under this paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(A)() must perform in-use verification testing to determine if the additive deterioration factor reasonably predicts actual in-use emissions. The plan for the in-use verification testing must be approved by the Administrator as part of the approval process described in this paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(4)(A)() prior to the use of the additive deterioration factor. The Administrator may consider the results of the in-use verification testing both in certification and in-use compliance programs.

(B) Paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(B) of this section applies to diesel-cycle HDEs.
