
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.004-28 Compliance with emission standards.

(a)-(b) [Reserved]

(c)(1) Paragraph (c) of this section applies to heavy-duty engines.

(2) The applicable exhaust emission standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) for Otto-cycle engines and for diesel-cycle engines apply to the emissions of engines for their useful life.

(3) Since emission control efficiency generally decreases with the accumulation of service on the engine, deterioration factors will be used in combination with emission data engine test results as the basis for determining compliance with the standards.

(4)(i) Paragraph (c)(4) of this section describes the procedure for determining compliance of an engine with emission standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate), based on deterioration factors supplied by the manufacturer. Deterioration factors shall be established using applicable emissions test procedures. NOplus NMHC deterioration factors shall be established based on the sum of the pollutants. When establishing deterioration factors for NOplus NMHC, a negative deterioration (emissions decrease from the official exhaust emissions test result) for one pollutant may not offset deterioration of the other pollutant. Where negative deterioration occurs for NOand/or NMHC, the official exhaust emission test result shall be used for purposes of determining the NOplus NMHC deterioration factor.

(ii) Separate exhaust emission deterioration factors, determined from tests of engines, subsystems, or components conducted by the manufacturer, shall be supplied for each engine-system combination. For Otto-cycle engines, separate factors shall be established for transient NMHC (NMHCE), CO, NO. NOplus NMHC, and idle CO, for those engines utilizing aftertreatment technology (e.g., catalytic converters). For diesel-cycle engines, separate factors shall be established for transient NMHC (NMHCE), CO, NO. NOplus NMHC and exhaust particulate. For diesel-cycle smoke testing, separate factors shall also be established for the acceleration mode (designated as "A"), the lugging mode (designated as "B"), and peak opacity (designated as "C").
