
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.004-28 Compliance with emission standards.
####### Options.

(5)(i) A manufacturer may elect to omit adjustment factors for one or more of its engine families (or configurations) because the effect of the regeneration is small, or because it is not practical to identify when regenerations occur. In these cases, no upward or downward adjustment factor shall be added, and the manufacturer is liable for compliance with the emission standards for all tests, without regard to whether a regeneration occurs.

(ii) Upon request by the manufacturer, the Administrator may account for regeneration events differently than is provided in this paragraph (i). However, this option only applies for events that occur extremely infrequently, and which cannot be practically addressed using the adjustment factors described in this paragraph (i).

(j) For model year 2021 and later engines using aftertreatment technology with infrequent regeneration events that may occur during testing, take one of the following approaches to account for the emission impact of regeneration:

(1) You may use the calculation methodology described in 40 CFR 1065.680 to adjust measured emission results. Do this by developing an upward adjustment factor and a downward adjustment factor for each pollutant based on measured emission data and observed regeneration frequency as follows:

(i) Adjustment factors should generally apply to an entire engine family, but you may develop separate adjustment factors for different configurations within an engine family. Use the adjustment factors from this section for all testing for the engine family.

(ii) You may use carryover or carry-across data to establish adjustment factors for an engine family as described in ยง 86.001-24(f), consistent with good engineering judgment.
