
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.004-28 Compliance with emission standards.
####### 8

() For the purposes of setting an NMHC plus NOcertification level or FEL for a diesel-fueled engine family, the manufacturer may use one of the following options for the determination of NMHC for an engine family. The manufacturer must declare which option is used in its application for certification of that engine family.

(i) THC may be used in lieu of NMHC for the standards set forth in § 86.004-11.

(ii) The manufacturer may choose its own method to analyze methane with prior approval of the Administrator.

(iii) The manufacturer may assume that two percent of the measured THC is methane (NMHC = 0.98 x THC).

(d)(1) Paragraph (d) of this section applies to heavy-duty vehicles equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled engines.

(2) The applicable evaporative emission standards in this subpart apply to the emissions of vehicles for their useful life.

(3)(i) For vehicles with a GVWR of up to 26,000 pounds, because it is expected that emission control efficiency will change during the useful life of the vehicle, an evaporative emission deterioration factor shall be determined from the testing described in § 86.098-23(b)(3) for each evaporative emission family-evaporative emission control system combination to indicate the evaporative emission control system deterioration during the useful life of the vehicle (minimum 50,000 miles). The factor shall be established to a minimum of two places to the right of the decimal.

(ii) For vehicles with a GVWR of greater than 26,000 pounds, because it is expected that emission control efficiency will change during the useful life of the vehicle, each manufacturer's statement as required in § 86.098-23(b)(4)(ii) shall include, in accordance with good engineering practice, consideration of control system deterioration.

(4) The evaporative emission test results, if any, shall be adjusted by the addition of the appropriate deterioration factor, provided that if the deterioration factor as computed in paragraph (d)(3) of this section is less than zero, that deterioration factor shall be zero for the purposes of this paragraph.

(5) The emission level to compare with the standard shall be the adjusted emission level of paragraph (d)(4) of this section. Before any emission value is compared with the standard, it shall be rounded, in accordance with ASTM E 29-93a (as referenced in § 86.094-28 (a)(4)(i)(B)(2)(ii)), to two significant figures. The rounded emission values may not exceed the standard.

(6) Every test vehicle of an evaporative emission family must comply with the evaporative emission standard, as determined in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, before any vehicle in that family may be certified.

(e) [Reserved]

(f)-(g) [Reserved]

(h) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.001-28.

(i) This paragraph (i) describes how to adjust emission results from model year 2020 and earlier heavy-duty engines equipped with exhaust aftertreatment to account for regeneration events. This provision only applies for engines equipped with emission controls that are regenerated on an infrequent basis. For the purpose of this paragraph (i), the term "regeneration" means an event during which emission levels change while the aftertreatment performance is being restored by design. Examples of regenerations are increasing exhaust gas temperature to remove sulfur from an adsorber or increasing exhaust gas temperature to oxidize PM in a trap. For the purpose of this paragraph (i), the term "infrequent" means having an expected frequency of less than once per transient test cycle. Calculation and use of adjustment factors are described in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section. If your engine family includes engines with one or more AECDs for emergency vehicle applications approved under paragraph (4) of the definition of defeat device in § 86.004-2, do not consider additional regenerations resulting from those AECDs when calculating emission factors or frequencies under this paragraph (i).
