
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.005-1 General applicability.
####### Otto-cycle HDE Option 3.

(3)The following requirements apply to Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles certified by manufacturers that do not select one of the options for 2003 or 2004 model year compliance in paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section:

(i) Emission standards for 2005 and later model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines, according to the provisions of § 86.005-10.

(ii) Emission standards for 2005 and later model year Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles, according to the provisions of § 86.1816-05.

(iii) On-board diagnostics requirements effective starting with the 2005 model year for Otto-cycle engines and complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.005-17 and 86.1806-05.

(iv) Refueling emissions requirements effective starting with the 2005 model year for Otto-cycle complete vehicles, according to the provisions of §§ 86.1810-01 and 86.1816-05.

(v) Manufacturers selecting this option may exempt 2005 model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles whose model year commences before July 31, 2004 from the requirements in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(vi) For 2005 model year engines or vehicles exempted under paragraph (c)(3)(v) of this section, a manufacturer shall certify such Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles to all requirements in this subpart applicable to 2004 model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines. The averaging, banking, and trading provisions contained in § 86.000-15 remain effective for these engines.

(d) [Reserved]

(e)-(f) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.001-1.
