
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.005-1 General applicability.
####### Optional applicability.

(b)(1) A manufacturer may request to certify any 2003 or 2004 model year heavy-duty vehicle of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less in accordance with the light-duty truck provisions located in subpart S of this part. Heavy-duty engine or vehicle provisions of this subpart A do not apply to such a vehicle. This option is not available in the 2003 model year for manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 1 in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, or in the 2004 model year for manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 2 in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) For 2005 and later model years, a manufacturer may request to certify any incomplete Otto-cycle heavy-duty vehicle of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less in accordance with the provisions for Otto-cycle complete heavy-duty vehicles located in subpart S of this part. Heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of this subpart A do not apply to such a vehicle. This option is available starting with the 2003 model year to manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 1 in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. This option is available starting with the 2004 model year to manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 2 in paragraph (c)(1) of this section.
