
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.007-11 Emission standards and supplemental requirements for 2007 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### Particulate.

(iv)(A) 0.01 grams per brake horsepower-hour (0.0037 grams per megajoule).

(B) A manufacturer may elect to include any or all of its diesel HDE families in any or all of the particulate ABT programs for HDEs, within the restrictions described in ยง 86.007-15 or other applicable sections. If the manufacturer elects to include engine families in any of these programs, the particulate FEL may not exceed 0.02 grams per brake horsepower-hour (0.0075 grams per megajoule).

(2) The standards set forth in paragraph (a)(1) of this section refer to the exhaust emitted over the duty cycle specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, where exhaust emissions are measured and calculated as specified in paragraphs (a)(2)(iv) and (v) of this section in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart N of this part, except as noted in ยง 86.007-23(c)(2):

(i) Perform the test interval set forth in paragraph (f)(2) of appendix I of this part with a cold-start according to 40 CFR part 1065, subpart F. This is the cold-start test interval.

(ii) Shut down the engine after completing the test interval and allow 20+/-1 minutes to elapse. This is the hot soak.

(iii) Repeat the test interval. This is the hot-start test interval.

(iv) Calculate the total emission mass of each constituent, m, and the total work, W, over each test interval according to 40 CFR 1065.650.

(v) Determine your engine's brake-specific emissions using the following calculation, which weights the emissions from the cold-start and hot-start test intervals:
