
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.007-30 Certification.
####### Gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicles.

(ii)If, after a review of the statement(s) of compliance submitted by the manufacturer under § 86.094-23(b)(4) and any other pertinent data or information, the Administrator determines that the requirements of the Act and this subpart have been met, he will issue one certificate of conformity per manufacturer with respect to the evaporative emission family(ies) covered by paragraph (c) of this section.

(2) Such certificate will be issued for such period not to exceed one model year as the Administrator may determine and upon such terms as he may deem necessary or appropriate to assure that any new motor vehicle (or new motor vehicle engine) covered by the certificate will meet the requirements of the Act and of this part.

(3)(i) One such certificate will be issued for each engine family. For gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, and petroleum-fueled diesel cycle light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks not certified under § 86.098-28(g), one such certificate will be issued for each engine family-evaporative/refueling emission family combination. Each certificate will certify compliance with no more than one set of in-use and certification standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate).

(ii) For gasoline-fueled and methanol fueled heavy-duty vehicles, one such certificate will be issued for each manufacturer and will certify compliance for those vehicles previously identified in that manufacturer's statement(s) of compliance as required in § 86.098-23(b)(4)(i) and (ii).

(iii) For diesel light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, or diesel HDEs, included in the applicable particulate averaging program, the manufacturer may at any time during production elect to change the level of any family particulate emission limit by demonstrating compliance with the new limit as described in § 86.094-28(a)(6), § 86.094-28(b)(5)(i), or § 86.004-28(c)(5)(i). New certificates issued under this paragraph will be applicable only for vehicles (or engines) produced subsequent to the date of issuance.

(iv) For light-duty trucks or HDEs included in the applicable NOaveraging program, the manufacturer may at any time during production elect to change the level of any family NOemission limit by demonstrating compliance with the new limit as described in § 86.094-28(b)(5)(ii) or § 86.004-28(c)(5)(ii). New certificates issued under this paragraph will be applicable only for vehicles (or engines) produced subsequent to the day of issue.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]

(6) Catalyst-equipped vehicles, otherwise covered by a certificate, which are driven outside the United States, Canada, and Mexico will be presumed to have been operated on leaded gasoline resulting in deactivation of the catalysts. If these vehicles are imported or offered for importation without retrofit of the catalyst, they will be considered not to be within the coverage of the certificate unless included in a catalyst control program operated by a manufacturer or a United States Government agency and approved by the Administrator.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) For heavy-duty engines, a certificate covers only those new motor vehicle engines installed in heavy-duty vehicles which conform to the minimum gross vehicle weight rating, curb weight, or frontal area limitations for heavyduty vehicles described in § 86.082-2.

(9) For incomplete gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicles a certificate covers only those new motor vehicles which, when completed, conform to the nominal maximum fuel tank capacity limitations as described in the application for certification as required in § 86.094-21(e).

(10)(i) [Reserved]

(ii) For all heavy-duty diesel-cycle engines which are included in the particulate ABT programs under § 86.098-15 or superseding ABT sections as applicable, the provisions of paragraphs (a)(10)(ii)(A)-(C) of this section apply.

(A) All certificates issued are conditional upon the manufacturer complying with the provisions of § 86.098-15 or superseding ABT sections as applicable and the ABT related provisions of other applicable sections, both during and after the model year production.
