
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.007-30 Certification.
####### ab initio.

(B) Failure to comply with all provisions of § 86.098-15 or superseding ABT sections as applicable will be considered to be a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which the certificate was issued, and the certificate may be deemed void

(C) The manufacturer shall bear the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the conditions upon which the certificate was issued were satisfied or excused.

(12)-(16) [Reserved]

(17) For all heavy-duty vehicles certified to evaporative test procedures and accompanying standards specified under § 86.096-10:

(i) All certificates issued are conditional upon the manufacturer complying with all provisions of § 86.096-10 both during and after model year production.

(ii) Failure to meet the required implementation schedule sales percentages as specified in § 86.096-10 will be considered to be a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which the certificate was issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the implementation schedule shall not be covered by the certificate.

(iii) The manufacturer shall bear the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the conditions upon which the certificate was issued were satisfied.

(18) For all heavy-duty vehicles certified to evaporative test procedures and accompanying standards specified under § 86.098-11:

(i) All certificates issued are conditional upon the manufacturer complying with all provisions of § 86.098-11 both during and after model year production.

(ii) Failure to meet the required implementation schedule sales percentages as specified in § 86.098-11 will be considered to be a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which the certificate was issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the implementation schedule shall not be covered by the certificate.

(iii) The manufacturer shall bear the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the conditions upon which the certificate was issued were satisfied.

(b)(1) The Administrator will determine whether a vehicle (or engine) covered by the application complies with applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) by observing the following relationships: in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section:

(i)-(ii) [Reserved]
