
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.008-10 Emission standards for 2008 and later model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2

() For the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence described in § 86.1230-96, diurnal plus hot soak measurements: 2.3 grams carbon per test.

(B) Running loss test: 0.05 grams carbon per mile.

(3)(i) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 26,000 lbs, the standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section refer to a composite sample of evaporative emissions collected under the conditions and measured in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart M of this part.

(ii) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of greater than 26,000 lbs., the standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section refer to the manufacturer's engineering design evaluation using good engineering practice (a statement of which is required in § 86.098-23(b)(4)(ii)).

(4) All fuel vapor generated in a gasoline- or methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicle during in-use operations shall be routed exclusively to the evaporative control system (e.g., either canister or engine purge). The only exception to this requirement shall be for emergencies.

(5) Compressed natural gas vehicles must meet the requirements for fueling connection devices as specified in § 86.1813-17(f)(1). Vehicles meeting these requirements are deemed to comply with evaporative emission standards.

(c) No crankcase emissions shall be discharged into the ambient atmosphere from any new 2008 or later model year Otto-cycle HDE.

(d) Every manufacturer of new motor vehicle engines subject to the standards prescribed in this section shall, prior to taking any of the actions specified in section 203(a)(1) of the Act, test or cause to be tested motor vehicle engines in accordance with applicable procedures in subpart N or P of this part to ascertain that such test engines meet the requirements of this section.

(e) The standards described in this section do not apply to Otto-cycle medium-duty passenger vehicles (MDPVs) that are subject to regulation under subpart S of this part, except as specified in subpart S of this part. The standards described in this section also do not apply to Otto-cycle engines used in such MDPVs, except as specified in subpart S of this part. The term "medium-duty passenger vehicle" is defined in § 86.1803.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) Model years 2018 through 2026 engines that will be installed in specialty vehicles as allowed by 40 CFR 1037.605 may meet alternate emission standards as follows:

(1) The engines must be of a configuration that is identical to one that is certified under 40 CFR part 1048 to the Blue Sky standards under 40 CFR 1048.140.

(2) Except as specified in this paragraph (g), engines certified under this paragraph (g) must meet all the requirements that apply under 40 CFR part 1048 instead of the comparable provisions in this subpart A. Before shipping engines under this section, you must have written assurance from the vehicle manufacturers that they need a certain number of exempted engines under this section. In your annual production report under 40 CFR 1048.250, count these engines separately and identify the vehicle manufacturers that will be installing them. Treat these engines as part of the corresponding engine family under 40 CFR part 1048 for compliance purposes such as testing production engines, in-use testing, defect reporting, and recall.

(3) The engines must be labeled as described in § 86.095-35, with the following statement instead of the one specified in § 86.095-35(a)(3)(iii)(H): "This engine conforms to alternate standards for specialty vehicles under 40 CFR 86.008-10(g)". Engines certified under this paragraph (g) may not have the label specified for nonroad engines in 40 CFR part 1048 or any other label identifying them as nonroad engines.

(4) In a separate application for a certificate of conformity, identify the corresponding nonroad engine family, describe the label required under this paragraph (g), state that you meet applicable diagnostic requirements under 40 CFR part 1048, and identify your projected U.S.-directed production volume.

(5) No additional certification fee applies for engines certified under this paragraph (g).

(6) Engines certified under this paragraph (g) may not generate or use emission credits under this part. The vehicles in which these engines are installed may generate or use emission credits as described in 40 CFR part 1037.

(7) Engines may instead meet standards for heavy-duty highway engines in California, as demonstrated by an Executive Order issued by the California Air Resources Board.
