
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix K to Part 50 - Interpretation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Particulate Matter
###### Year
####### Particle size separator.

7.3.4The sampler shall be configured with either one of the two alternative particle size separators described in this section 7.3.4. One separator is an impactor-type separator (WINS impactor) described in sections 7.3.4.1, 7.3.4.2, and 7.3.4.3 of this appendix. The alternative separator is a cyclone-type separator (VSCC) described in section 7.3.4.4 of this appendix.

7.3.4.1 The impactor (particle size separator) shall be fabricated as indicated in Figures L-20 through L-24 of this appendix and shall meet all associated requirements. Following the manufacture and finishing of each upper impactor housing (Figure L-21 of this appendix), the dimension of the impaction jet must be verified by the manufacturer using Class ZZ go/no-go plug gauges that are traceable to NIST.

7.3.4.2 Impactor filter specifications:

(a) Size. Circular, 35 to 37 mm diameter.

(b) Medium. Borosilicate glass fiber, without binder.

(c) Pore size. 1 to 1.5 micrometer, as measured by ASTM F 316-80.

(d) Thickness. 300 to 500 micrometers.

7.3.4.3 Impactor oil specifications:

(a) Composition. Dioctyl sebacate (DOS), single-compound diffusion oil.

(b) Vapor pressure. Maximum 2 x 10mm Hg at 25 &#xB0;C.

(c) Viscosity. 36 to 40 centistokes at 25 &#xB0;C.

(d) Density. 1.06 to 1.07 g/cmat 25 &#xB0;C.

(e) Quantity. 1 mL +/-0.1 mL.

7.3.4.4 The cyclone-type separator is identified as a BGI VSCCVery Sharp Cut Cyclone particle size separator specified as part of EPA-designated equivalent method EQPM-0202-142 (67 FR 15567, April 2, 2002) and as manufactured by BGI Incorporated, 58 Guinan Street, Waltham, Massachusetts 20451.
