
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Drive cycle or driving cycle

(4), in the context of this ยง 86.010-18, means operation that meets any of the conditions of paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(iv) of this section. Further, for OBD monitors that run during engine-off conditions, the period of engine-off time following engine shutoff and up to the next engine start may be considered part of the drive cycle for the conditions of paragraphs (a)(4)(i) and (a)(4)(iv) of this section. For engines/vehicles that employ engine shutoff OBD monitoring strategies that do not require the vehicle operator to restart the engine to continue vehicle operation (e.g., a hybrid bus with engine shutoff at idle), the manufacturer may use an alternative definition for drive cycle (e.g., key-on followed by key-off). Any alternative definition must be based on equivalence to engine startup and engine shutoff signaling the beginning and ending of a single driving event for a conventional vehicle. For engines that are not likely to be routinely operated for long continuous periods of time, a manufacturer may also request approval to use an alternative definition for drive cycle (e.g., solely based on engine start and engine shutoff without regard to four hours of continuous engine-on time). Administrator approval of the alternative definition will be based on manufacturer-submitted data and/or information demonstrating the typical usage, operating habits, and/or driving patterns of these vehicles.

(i) Begins with engine start and ends with engine shutoff;

(ii) Begins with engine start and ends after four hours of continuous engine-on operation;

(iii) Begins at the end of the previous four hours of continuous engine-on operation and ends after four hours of continuous engine-on operation; or

(iv) Begins at the end of the previous four hours of continuous engine-on operation and ends with engine shutoff.

(5) As an alternative to demonstrating compliance with the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (l) of this ยง 86.010-18, a manufacturer may demonstrate how the OBD system they have designed to comply with California OBD requirements for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds also complies with the intent of the provisions of paragraphs (b) through (l) of this section. To make use of this alternative, the manufacturer must demonstrate to the Administrator how the OBD system they intend to certify meets the intent behind all of the requirements of this section, where applicable (e.g., paragraph (h) of this section would not apply for a diesel fueled/CI engine). Furthermore, if making use of this alternative, the manufacturer must comply with the specific certification documentation requirements of paragraph (m)(3) of this section.
