
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Temporary provisions to address hardship due to unusual circumstances.

(6)(i) After considering the unusual circumstances, the Administrator may permit the manufacturer to introduce into U.S. commerce engines that do not comply with this ยง 86.010-18 for a limited time if all the following conditions apply:

(A) Unusual circumstances that are clearly outside the manufacturer's control prevent compliance with the requirements of this ยง 86.010-18.

(B) The manufacturer exercised prudent planning and was not able to avoid the violation and has taken all reasonable steps to minimize the extent of the nonconformity.

(C) No other allowances are available under the regulations in this chapter to avoid the impending violation.

(ii) To apply for an exemption, the manufacturer must send to the Administrator a written request as soon as possible before being in violation. In the request, the manufacturer must show that all the conditions and requirements of paragraph (a)(6)(i) of this section are met.

(iii) The request must also include a plan showing how all the applicable requirements will be met as quickly as possible.

(iv) The manufacturer shall give the Administrator other relevant information upon request.

(v) The Administrator may include additional conditions on an approval granted under the provisions of this paragraph (a)(6), including provisions that may require field repair at the manufacturer's expense to correct the noncompliance.

(vi) Engines sold as non-compliant under this temporary hardship provision must display "non-OBD" in the data stream as required under paragraph (k)(4)(ii) of this section. Upon correcting the noncompliance, the data stream value must be updated accordingly.
