
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Monitoring conditions.

(c)The OBD system must monitor and detect the malfunctions specified in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section under the following general monitoring conditions. The more specific monitoring conditions of paragraph (d) of this section are sometimes required according to the provisions of paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section.

(1) As specifically provided for in paragraphs (g), (h), and (i) of this section, the monitoring conditions for detecting malfunctions must be technically necessary to ensure robust detection of malfunctions (e.g., avoid false passes and false indications of malfunctions); designed to ensure monitoring will occur under conditions that may reasonably be expected to be encountered in normal vehicle operation and normal vehicle use; and, designed to ensure monitoring will occur during the FTP transient test cycle contained in appendix I paragraph (f), of this part, or similar drive cycle as approved by the Administrator.

(2) Monitoring must occur at least once per drive cycle in which the monitoring conditions are met.

(3) Manufacturers may define monitoring conditions that are not encountered during the FTP cycle as required in paragraph (c)(1) of this section. In doing so, the manufacturer would be expected to consider the degree to which the requirement to run during the FTP transient cycle restricts monitoring during in-use operation, the technical necessity for defining monitoring conditions that are not encountered during the FTP cycle, whether monitoring is otherwise not feasible during the FTP cycle, and/or the ability to demonstrate that the monitoring conditions satisfy the minimum acceptable in-use monitor performance ratio requirement as defined in paragraph (d) of this section.
