
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### MIL specifications.

(1)(i) For model years 2013 and later, the MIL must be located on the primary driver's side instrument panel and be of sufficient illumination and location to be readily visible under all lighting conditions. The MIL must be amber (yellow) in color; the use of red for the OBD-related MIL is prohibited. More than one general purpose malfunction indicator light for emission-related problems shall not be used; separate specific purpose warning lights (e.g., brake system, fasten seat belt, oil pressure, etc.) are permitted. When activated, the MIL shall display the International Standards Organization (ISO) engine symbol.

(ii) The OBD system must activate the MIL when the ignition is in the key-on/engine-off position before engine cranking to indicate that the MIL is functional. The MIL shall be activated continuously during this functional check for a minimum of 5 seconds. During this MIL key-on functional check, the data stream value (see paragraph (k)(4)(ii) of this section) for MIL status must indicate "commanded off" unless the OBD system has detected a malfunction and has stored a MIL-on DTC. This MIL key-on functional check is not required during vehicle operation in the key-on/engine-off position subsequent to the initial engine cranking of an ignition cycle (e.g., due to an engine stall or other non-commanded engine shutoff).

(iii) As an option, the MIL may be used to indicate readiness status (see paragraph (k)(4)(i) of this section) in a standardized format in the key-on/engine-off position.

(iv) A manufacturer may also use the MIL to indicate which, if any, DTCs are currently stored (e.g., to "blink" the stored DTCs). Such use must not activate unintentionally during routine driver operation.

(v) For model years 2013 and later, the MIL required by this paragraph (b) must not be used in any other way than is specified in this section.
