
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### 1,i,1,ii,1,i,1,i

(2) These two separate criteria may be met on the same or different drive cycles provided the monitor never detects a malfunction during either drive cycle, and if criteria (b)(3)(iii)(C)()() happens first then no malfunction may be detected before criteria (b)(3)(iii)(C)()() occurs. If a malfunction occurs after criteria (b)(3)(iii)(C)()() then criteria (b)(3)(iii)(C)()() must be satisfied again. For the second criterion, the manufacturer must exclude any temperature and/or elevation provisions of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. For this paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(C), monitors required to use "similar conditions" as defined in ยง 86.010-2 to store and erase pending and MIL-on DTCs cannot require that the similar conditions be met prior to erasure of the permanent DTC.

(D) The Administrator shall allow monitors subject to paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) of this section to use the criteria of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(C) of this section in lieu of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B). Further, manufacturers may request Administrator approval to use alternative criteria to erase the permanent DTC. The Administrator shall approve alternate criteria that will not likely require driving conditions that are longer and more difficult to meet than those required under paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(C) of this section and do not require access to enhanced scan tools to determine conditions necessary to erase the permanent DTC.
