
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### MIL activation and DTC storage protocol.

(2)(i) Within 10 seconds of detecting a potential malfunction, the OBD system must store a pending DTC that identifies the potential malfunction.

(ii) If the potential malfunction is again detected before the end of the next drive cycle during which monitoring occurs (i.e., the potential malfunction has been confirmed as a malfunction), then within 10 seconds of such detection the OBD system must activate the MIL continuously and store a MIL-on DTC (systems using the SAE J1939 standard protocol specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section may either erase or retain the pending DTC in conjunction with storing the MIL-on DTC). If the potential malfunction is not detected before the end of the next drive cycle during which monitoring occurs (i.e., there is no indication of the malfunction at any time during the drive cycle), the corresponding pending DTC should be erased at the end of the drive cycle. Similarly, if a malfunction is detected for the first time and confirmed on a given drive cycle without need for further evaluation, then within 10 seconds of such detection the OBD system must activate the MIL continuously and store a MIL-on DTC (again, systems using the SAE J1939 standard protocol specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section may optionally store a pending DTC in conjunction with storing the MIL-on DTC).

(iii) A manufacturer may request Administrator approval to employ alternative statistical MIL activation and DTC storage protocols to those specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section. Approval will depend upon the manufacturer providing data and/or engineering evaluations that demonstrate that the alternative protocols can evaluate system performance and detect malfunctions in a manner that is equally effective and timely. Strategies requiring on average more than six drive cycles for MIL activation will not be accepted.

(iv) The OBD system must store a "freeze frame" of the operating conditions (as defined in paragraph (k)(4)(iii) of this section) present upon detecting a malfunction or a potential malfunction. In the event that a pending DTC has matured to a MIL-on DTC, the manufacturer shall either retain the currently stored freeze frame conditions or replace the stored freeze frame with freeze frame conditions regarding the MIL-on DTC. Any freeze frame stored in conjunction with any pending DTC or MIL-on DTC should be erased upon erasure of the corresponding DTC.

(v) If the engine enters a limp-home mode of operation that can affect emissions or the performance of the OBD system, or in the event of a malfunction of an onboard computer(s) itself that can affect the performance of the OBD system, the OBD system must activate the MIL and store a MIL-on DTC within 10 seconds to inform the vehicle operator. If the limp-home mode of operation is recoverable (i.e., operation automatically returns to normal at the beginning of the following ignition cycle), the OBD system may wait to activate the MIL and store the MIL-on DTC if the limp-home mode of operation is again entered before the end of the next ignition cycle rather than activating the MIL within 10 seconds on the first drive cycle during which the limp-home mode of operation is entered.

(vi) Before the end of an ignition cycle, the OBD system must store a permanent DTC(s) that corresponds to any stored MIL-on DTC(s).
