
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Disablement of numerators and denominators.

(5)(i) Within 10 seconds of detecting a malfunction (i.e., a pending or a MIL-on DTC has been stored) that disables a monitor for which the monitoring conditions in paragraph (d) of this section must be met, the OBD system must stop incrementing the numerator and denominator for any monitor that may be disabled as a consequence of the detected malfunction. Within 10 seconds of the time at which the malfunction is no longer being detected (e.g., the pending DTC is erased through OBD system self-clearing or through a scan tool command), incrementing of all applicable numerators and denominators must resume.

(ii) Within 10 seconds of the start of a power take-off unit (e.g., dump bed, snow plow blade, or aerial bucket, etc.) that disables a monitor for which the monitoring conditions in paragraph (d) of this section must be met, the OBD system must stop incrementing the numerator and denominator for any monitor that may be disabled as a consequence of power take-off operation. Within 10 seconds of the time at which the power take-off operation ends, incrementing of all applicable numerators and denominators must resume.

(iii) Within 10 seconds of detecting a malfunction (i.e., a pending or a MIL-on DTC has been stored) of any component used to determine if the criteria of paragraphs (d)(4)(ii) and (d)(4)(iii) of this section are satisfied, the OBD system must stop incrementing all applicable numerators and denominators. Within 10 seconds of the time at which the malfunction is no longer being detected (e.g., the pending DTC is erased through OBD system self-clearing or through a scan tool command), incrementing of all applicable numerators and denominators must resume.
