
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Specifications for incrementing the denominator.

(4)(i) The denominator, when incremented, must be incremented by an integer of one. The denominator shall not be incremented more than once per drive cycle.

(ii) The denominator for each monitor must be incremented within 10 seconds if and only if the following criteria are satisfied on a single drive cycle:

(A) Cumulative time since the start of the drive cycle is greater than or equal to 600 seconds while at an elevation of less than 8,000 feet (2,400 meters) above sea level and at an ambient temperature of greater than or equal to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-7 C);

(B) Cumulative gasoline engine operation at or above 25 miles per hour or diesel engine operation at or above 1,150 rotations per minute (diesel engines may use the gasoline criterion for 2010 through 2012 model years), either of which occurs for greater than or equal to 300 seconds while at an elevation of less than 8,000 feet (2,400 meters) above sea level and at an ambient temperature of greater than or equal to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-7 C); and,

(C) Continuous engine operation at idle (e.g., accelerator pedal released by driver and engine speed less than or equal to 200 rpm above normal warmed-up idle (as determined in the drive position for vehicles equipped with an automatic transmission) or vehicle speed less than or equal to one mile per hour) for greater than or equal to 30 seconds while at an elevation of less than 8,000 feet (2,400 meters) above sea level and at an ambient temperature of greater than or equal to 20 degrees Fahrenheit (-7 C).

(iii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, the evaporative system monitor denominator(s) may be incremented if and only if:

(A) Cumulative time since the start of the drive cycle is greater than or equal to 600 seconds while at an ambient temperature of greater than or equal to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 C) but less than or equal to 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 C); and,

(B) Engine cold start occurs with the engine coolant temperature greater than or equal to 40 degrees Fahrenheit (4 C) but less than or equal to 95 degrees Fahrenheit (35 C) and less than or equal to 12 degrees Fahrenheit (7 C) higher than the ambient temperature.

(iv) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, the denominator(s) for the following monitors may be incremented if and only if the component or strategy is commanded "on" for a cumulative time greater than or equal to 10 seconds. For purposes of determining this commanded "on" time, the OBD system shall not include time during intrusive operation of any of the components or strategies that occurs later in the same drive cycle for the sole purpose of monitoring.

(A) Secondary air system (paragraph (h)(5) of this section).

(B) Cold start emission reduction strategy (paragraph (h)(4) of this section).

(C) Components or systems that operate only at engine start-up (e.g., glow plugs, intake air heaters) and are subject to monitoring under "other emission control systems" (paragraph (i)(4) of this section) or comprehensive component output components (paragraph (i)(3)(iii) of this section).

(v) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, the denominator(s) for the following monitors of output components (except those operated only at engine start-up and subject to the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section, may be incremented if and only if the component is commanded to function (e.g., commanded "on", "opened", "closed", "locked") on two or more occasions during the drive cycle or for a cumulative time greater than or equal to 10 seconds, whichever occurs first:

(A) Variable valve timing and/or control system (paragraph (g)(10) of this section or (h)(9) of this section).

(B) "Other emission control systems" (paragraph (i)(4) of this section).

(C) Comprehensive component output component (paragraph (i)(3) of this section) (e.g., turbocharger waste-gates, variable length manifold runners).

(vi) For monitors of the following components, the manufacturer may use alternative or additional criteria for incrementing the denominator to that set forth in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. To do so, the alternative criteria must be based on equivalence to the criteria of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section in measuring the frequency of monitor operation relative to the amount of engine operation:

(A) Engine cooling system input components (paragraph (i)(1) of this section).

(B) "Other emission control systems" (paragraph (i)(4) of this section).

(C) Comprehensive component input components that require extended monitoring evaluation (paragraph (i)(3) of this section) (e.g., stuck fuel level sensor rationality).

(D) Comprehensive component input component temperature sensor rationality monitors (paragraph (i)(3) of this section) (e.g., intake air temperature sensor, ambient temperature sensor, fuel temperature sensor).

(E) Diesel particulate filter (DPF) frequent regeneration (paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(B) of this section).

(vii) For monitors of the following components or other emission controls that experience infrequent regeneration events, the manufacturer may use alternative or additional criteria for incrementing the denominator to that set forth in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. To do so, the alternative criteria must be based on equivalence to the criteria of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section in measuring the frequency of monitor operation relative to the amount of engine operation:

(A) NMHC converting catalyst (paragraph (g)(5) of this section).

(B) Diesel particulate filter (DPF) (paragraphs (g)(8)(ii)(A) and (g)(8)(ii)(D) of this section).

(viii) In addition to the requirements of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section, the denominator(s) for the following monitors shall be incremented if and only if a regeneration event is commanded for a time greater than or equal to 10 seconds:

(A) DPF incomplete regeneration (paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(C) of this section).

(B) DPF active/intrusive injection (paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(E) of this section).

(ix) For hybrids that employ alternative engine start hardware or strategies (e.g., integrated starter and generators), or alternative fuel vehicles (e.g., dedicated, bi-fuel, or dual-fuel applications), the manufacturer may use alternative criteria for incrementing the denominator to that set forth in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section. In general, the Administrator will not approve alternative criteria for those hybrids that employ engine shut off only at or near idle and/or vehicle stop conditions. To use alternative criteria, the alternative criteria must be based on the equivalence to the criteria of paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section in measuring the amount of vehicle operation relative to the measure of conventional vehicle operation.
