
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### General denominator.

(6)(i) The general denominator is defined as a measure of the number of times an engine has been operated according to the specifications of paragraph (e)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. The general denominator must be reported in accordance with the specifications in paragraph (k)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The general denominator must be incremented as follows:

(A) The general denominator, when incremented, must be incremented by an integer of one. The general denominator shall not be incremented more than once per drive cycle.

(B) The general denominator must be incremented within 10 seconds if and only if the criteria identified in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section are satisfied on a single drive cycle.

(C) Within 10 seconds of detecting a malfunction (i.e., a pending or a MIL-on DTC has been stored) of any component used to determine if the criteria in paragraph (d)(4)(ii) of this section are satisfied (i.e., vehicle speed/load, ambient temperature, elevation, idle operation, or time of operation), the OBD system must stop incrementing the general denominator. Incrementing of the general denominator shall not be stopped for any other condition (e.g., the disablement criteria in paragraphs (d)(5)(i) and (d)(5)(ii) of this section shall not disable the general denominator). Within 10 seconds of the time at which the malfunction is no longer being detected (e.g., the pending DTC is erased through OBD system self-clearing or through a scan tool command), incrementing of the general denominator must resume.
