
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Standardized tracking and reporting of in-use monitor performance,General.

(e)-(1)For monitors required to track and report in-use monitor performance according to paragraph (d) of this section, the performance data must be tracked and reported in accordance with the specifications in paragraphs (d)(2), (e), and (k)(5) of this section. The OBD system must separately report an in-use monitor performance numerator and denominator for each of the following components:

(i) For diesel engines, NMHC catalyst bank 1, NMHC catalyst bank 2, NOcatalyst bank 1, NOcatalyst bank 2, exhaust gas sensor bank 1, exhaust gas sensor bank 2, EGR/VVT system, DPF, boost pressure control system, and NOadsorber. The OBD system must also report a general denominator and an ignition cycle counter in the standardized format specified in paragraphs (e)(5), (e)(6), and (k)(5) of this section.

(ii) For gasoline engines, catalyst bank 1, catalyst bank 2, exhaust gas sensor bank 1, exhaust gas sensor bank 2, evaporative leak detection system, EGR/VVT system, and secondary air system. The OBD system must also report a general denominator and an ignition cycle counter in the standardized format specified in paragraphs (e)(5), (e)(6), and (k)(5) of this section.

(iii) For specific components or systems that have multiple monitors that are required to be reported under paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section (e.g., exhaust gas sensor bank 1 may have multiple monitors for sensor response or other sensor characteristics), the OBD system must separately track numerators and denominators for each of the specific monitors and report only the corresponding numerator and denominator for the specific monitor that has the lowest numerical ratio. If two or more specific monitors have identical ratios, the corresponding numerator and denominator for the specific monitor that has the highest denominator must be reported for the specific component.
