
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Specifications for incrementing the numerator.

(3)(i) Except as provided for in paragraph (d)(3)(v) of this section, the numerator, when incremented, must be incremented by an integer of one. The numerator shall not be incremented more than once per drive cycle.

(ii) The numerator for a specific monitor must be incremented within 10 seconds if and only if the following criteria are satisfied on a single drive cycle:

(A) Every monitoring condition has been satisfied that is necessary for the specific monitor to detect a malfunction and store a pending DTC, including applicable enable criteria, presence or absence of related DTCs, sufficient length of monitoring time, and diagnostic executive priority assignments (e.g., diagnostic "A" must execute prior to diagnostic "B"). For the purpose of incrementing the numerator, satisfying all the monitoring conditions necessary for a monitor to determine that the monitor is not malfunctioning shall not, by itself, be sufficient to meet this criteria.

(B) For monitors that require multiple stages or events in a single drive cycle to detect a malfunction, every monitoring condition necessary for all events to complete must be satisfied.

(C) For monitors that require intrusive operation of components to detect a malfunction, a manufacturer must request approval of the strategy used to determine that, had a malfunction been present, the monitor would have detected the malfunction. Administrator approval of the request will be based on the equivalence of the strategy to actual intrusive operation and the ability of the strategy to determine accurately if every monitoring condition was satisfied that was necessary for the intrusive event to occur.

(D) For the secondary air system monitor, the criteria in paragraphs (d)(3)(ii)(A) through (d)(3)(ii)(C) of this section are satisfied during normal operation of the secondary air system. Monitoring during intrusive operation of the secondary air system later in the same drive cycle for the sole purpose of monitoring shall not, by itself, be sufficient to meet these criteria.

(iii) For monitors that can generate results in a "gray zone" or "non-detection zone" (i.e., monitor results that indicate neither a properly operating system nor a malfunctioning system) or in a "non-decision zone" (e.g., monitors that increment and decrement counters until a pass or fail threshold is reached), the numerator, in general, shall not be incremented when the monitor indicates a result in the "non-detection zone" or prior to the monitor reaching a complete decision. When necessary, the Administrator will consider data and/or engineering analyses submitted by the manufacturer demonstrating the expected frequency of results in the "non-detection zone" and the ability of the monitor to determine accurately, had an actual malfunction been present, whether or not the monitor would have detected a malfunction instead of a result in the "non-detection zone."

(iv) For monitors that run or complete their evaluation with the engine off, the numerator must be incremented either within 10 seconds of the monitor completing its evaluation in the engine off state, or during the first 10 seconds of engine start on the subsequent drive cycle.

(v) Manufacturers that use alternative statistical MIL activation protocols as allowed in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section for any of the monitors requiring a numerator, are required to increment the numerator(s) appropriately. The manufacturer may be required to provide supporting data and/or engineering analyses demonstrating both the equivalence of their incrementing approach to the incrementing specified in this paragraph (d)(3) for monitors using the standard MIL activation protocol, and the overall equivalence of the incrementing approach in determining that the minimum acceptable in-use performance ratio of paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, if applicable, has been satisfied.
