
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Ignition cycle counter.

(5)(i) The ignition cycle counter is defined as a counter that indicates the number of ignition cycles a vehicle has experienced according to the specifications of paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B) of this section. The ignition cycle counter must be reported in accordance with the specifications in paragraph (k)(5)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The ignition cycle counter must be incremented as follows:

(A) The ignition cycle counter, when incremented, must be incremented by an integer of one. The ignition cycle counter shall not be incremented more than once per ignition cycle.

(B) The ignition cycle counter must be incremented within 10 seconds if and only if the engine exceeds an engine speed of 50 to 150 rpm below the normal, warmed-up idle speed (as determined in the drive position for engines paired with an automatic transmission) for at least two seconds plus or minus one second.

(iii) Within 10 seconds of detecting a malfunction (i.e., a pending or a MIL-on DTC has been stored) of any component used to determine if the criteria in paragraph (e)(5)(ii)(B) of this section are satisfied (i.e., engine speed or time of operation), the OBD system must stop incrementing the ignition cycle counter. Incrementing of the ignition cycle counter shall not be stopped for any other condition. Within 10 seconds of the time at which the malfunction is no longer being detected (e.g., the pending DTC is erased through OBD system self-clearing or through a scan tool command), incrementing of the ignition cycle counter must resume.
