
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Malfunction criteria determination.

(f)(1) In determining the malfunction criteria for the diesel engine monitors required under paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section that are required to indicate a malfunction before emissions exceed an emission threshold based on any applicable standard, the manufacturer must:

(i) Use the emission test cycle and standard (i.e., the transient FTP or the supplemental emissions test (SET)) determined by the manufacturer to provide the most effective monitoring conditions and robust monitor provided all other applicable requirements of this section are met.

(ii) Identify in the certification documentation required under paragraph (m) of this section, the test cycle and standard determined by the manufacturer to be the most stringent for each applicable monitor and the most effective and robust for each applicable monitor.

(iii) If the Administrator reasonably believes that a manufacturer has determined incorrectly the test cycle and standard that is most stringent or effective, the manufacturer must be able to provide emission data and/or engineering analysis supporting their choice of test cycle and standard.

(2) On engines equipped with emission controls that experience infrequent regeneration events, a manufacturer need not adjust the emission test results that are used to determine the malfunction criteria for monitors that are required to indicate a malfunction before emissions exceed a certain emission threshold. For each such monitor, should the manufacturer choose to adjust the emission test results, the manufacturer must adjust the emission result as done in accordance with the provisions of ยง 86.004-28(i) with the component for which the malfunction criteria are being established having been deteriorated to the malfunction threshold. The adjusted emission value must be used for purposes of determining whether or not the applicable emission threshold is exceeded.

(i) For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2), regeneration means an event, by design, during which emissions levels change while the emission control performance is being restored.

(ii) For purposes of this paragraph (f)(2), infrequent means having an expected frequency of less than once per transient FTP cycle.

(3) For gasoline engines, rather than meeting the malfunction criteria specified under paragraphs (h) and (i) of this section, the manufacturer may request approval to use an OBD system certified to the requirements of ยง 86.007-17. To do so, the manufacturer must demonstrate use of good engineering judgment in determining equivalent malfunction detection criteria to those required in this section.
