
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Engine misfire MIL activation and DTC storage.

(iv)(A) General requirements for MIL activation and DTC storage are set forth in paragraph (b) of this section.

(B) For model years 2013 and later, on engines equipped with sensors that can detect combustion or combustion quality, upon detection of the percentage of misfire specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, the following criteria shall apply for MIL activation and DTC storage: A pending DTC must be stored no later than after the fourth exceedance of the percentage of misfire specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section during a single drive cycle; if a pending fault code has been stored, the OBD system must activate the MIL and store a MIL-on DTC within 10 seconds if the percentage of misfire specified in paragraph (g)(2)(ii) of this section is again exceeded four times during the drive cycle immediately following storage of the pending DTC, regardless of the conditions encountered during the drive cycle, or on the next drive cycle in which similar conditions are encountered to those that were occurring when the pending DTC was stored. Similar conditions means an engine speed within 375 rpm, engine load within 20 percent, and the same warm up status (i.e., cold or hot). The Administrator may approve other definitions of similar conditions based on comparable timeliness and reliability in detecting similar engine operation. The pending DTC may be erased at the end of the next drive cycle in which similar conditions are encountered to those that were occurring when the pending DTC was stored provided the specified percentage of misfire was not again exceeded. The pending DTC may also be erased if similar conditions are not encountered during the 80 drive cycles immediately following initial detection of the malfunction.

(C) For model years 2013 and later, on engines equipped with sensors that can detect combustion or combustion quality, the OBD system must store and erase freeze frame conditions either in conjunction with storing and erasing a pending DTC or in conjunction with storing and erasing a MIL-on DTC. If freeze frame conditions are stored for a malfunction other than a misfire malfunction when a DTC is stored as specified in paragraph (g)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, the stored freeze frame information must be replaced with the freeze frame information regarding the misfire malfunction.

(D) For model years 2013 and later, on engines equipped with sensors that can detect combustion or combustion quality, upon detection of misfire according to paragraph (g)(2)(iv)(B) of this section, the OBD system must also store the following engine conditions: engine speed, load, and warm up status of the first misfire event that resulted in the storage of the pending DTC.

(E) For model years 2013 and later, on engines equipped with sensors that can detect combustion or combustion quality, the MIL may be deactivated after three sequential drive cycles in which similar conditions have been encountered without an exceedance of the specified percentage of misfire.
