
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### EGR system monitoring conditions.

(iii)(A) The OBD system must monitor continuously for malfunctions identified in paragraphs (g)(3)(ii)(A), (g)(3)(ii)(B), and (g)(3)(ii)(D) of this section.

(B) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(C) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section, with the exception that monitoring must occur every time the monitoring conditions are met during the drive cycle rather than once per drive cycle as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. For purposes of tracking and reporting as required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, all monitors used to detect malfunctions identified in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(C) of this section must be tracked separately but reported as a single set of values as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(C) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(E) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. For purposes of tracking and reporting as required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, all monitors used to detect malfunctions identified in paragraph (g)(3)(ii)(E) of this section must be tracked separately but reported as a single set of values as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(D) The manufacturer may request Administrator approval to disable temporarily the EGR system monitor(s) under specific ambient conditions (e.g., when freezing may affect performance of the system) or during specific operating conditions (e.g., transients, extreme low or high flow conditions). The manufacturer must be able to demonstrate via data or engineering analysis that a reliable system monitor cannot be run when these conditions exist because it cannot robustly distinguish between a malfunctioning system and a properly operating system. The manufacturer is still required to maintain comprehensive component monitoring as required in paragraph (i)(3) of this section.
