
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### NMHC converting catalyst aftertreatment assistance functions.

(B)For catalysts used to generate an exotherm to assist DPF regeneration, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when the catalyst is unable to generate a sufficient exotherm to achieve DPF regeneration. In meeting this requirement, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when the DOC is unable to generate a temperature rise of 100 degrees C, or to reach the necessary DPF regeneration temperature, within 60 seconds of initiating an active DPF regeneration. Further, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when the DOC is unable to sustain the necessary regeneration temperature for the duration of the regeneration event. The OBD or control system must abort the regeneration if the regeneration temperature has not been reached within five minutes of initiating an active regeneration event, or if the regeneration temperature cannot be sustained for the duration of the regeneration event. As an alternative to these specific malfunction criteria, the manufacturer may employ different criteria. To do so, the manufacturer must submit a description with supporting data, subject to Administrator approval, of their DPF regeneration monitoring strategy. The Administrator will consider the strategy's equivalence to the specific criteria stated in this paragraph when considering the request. Also as an alternative to these specific malfunction criteria, the manufacturer may employ an OBD monitor that detects a catalyst malfunction when the catalyst conversion capability decreases to the point that NMHC emissions exceed 2.5 times the applicable NMHC emission standard but must adjust emission test results pursuant to paragraph (f)(2) of this section. For catalysts located downstream of a DPF and used to convert NMHC emissions during DPF regeneration, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when the catalyst has no detectable amount of NMHC conversion capability unless the manufacturer can demonstrate that deterioration or malfunction of the catalyst will not result in emissions that exceed the applicable NMHC standard.
