
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### SCR and lean NO,catalyst MIL activation and DTC storage.

(iv)(A) For malfunctions identified in paragraph (g)(6)(ii)(A) of this section, the MIL must activate and DTCs must be stored according to the provisions of paragraph (b) of this section.

(B) For malfunctions identified in paragraphs (g)(6)(ii)(B), (g)(6)(ii)(C), and (g)(6)(ii)(D) of this section, the manufacturer may delay activating the MIL if the vehicle is equipped with an alternative indicator for notifying the vehicle operator of the malfunction. The alternative indicator must be of sufficient illumination and be located such that it is readily visible to the vehicle operator under all lighting conditions. If the vehicle is not equipped with such an alternative indicator and the OBD MIL activates, the MIL may be immediately deactivated and the corresponding DTC(s) erased once the OBD system has verified that the reductant tank has been refilled properly and the MIL has not been activated for any other malfunction. The Administrator may approve other strategies that provide equivalent assurance that a vehicle operator would be promptly notified and that corrective action would be taken.

(C) The monitoring method for the SCR and lean NOcatalyst(s) must be capable of detecting all instances, except diagnostic self-clearing, when a catalyst DTC(s) has been erased but the catalyst has not been replaced (e.g., catalyst over-temperature histogram approaches are not acceptable).
