
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### DPF system malfunction criteria,DPF filtering performance.

(ii)-(A)The OBD system must detect a malfunction prior to a decrease in the PM filtering capability of the DPF (e.g., cracking, melting, etc.) that would cause an engine's PM emissions to exceed the emissions thresholds for DPF systems as shown in Table 1 of this paragraph (g). If no failure or deterioration of the PM filtering performance could result in an engine's PM emissions exceeding the applicable emissions thresholds, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when no detectable amount of PM filtering occurs. As an alternative to a threshold monitor, the OBD system, on model year 2010 through 2012 engines only, can be designed to detect a malfunction based on a detectable decrease in the expected pressure drop across the DPF for a period of 5 seconds or more. The monitoring area for this alternative is determined using engine speed and load points defined in test cycles and procedures for the supplemental emissions test (SET) under ยง 86.1360-2007. The monitoring area shall include all engine speed and load points greater than a region bounded by a line connecting mode numbers 2, 6, 3, and 13 (i.e. A100, A75, B50, and C50). At engine speeds greater than "speed C", the monitor shall run whenever engine load is greater than 50%. For purposes of this paragraph, the detectable change in pressure drop is determined by operating the engine at the B50 engine speed and load point (as described in the SET test procedures), observing the pressure drop on a clean, nominal DPF, and multiplying the observed pressure drop by 0.5 or other factor supported by data and approved by the Administrator. The detectable change in pressure drop shall be reported in units of kilopascals (kPa). At time of certification, manufacturers shall provide the detectable change in pressure drop value along with OBD data stream parameters recorded with a clean DPF under the following nine engine speed/load operating points of the SET: A50, A75, A100, B50, B75, B100, C50, C75, and C100. The OBD data stream pararmeters to be reported are described in (k)(4)(ii) of this section and shall include the following: Engine speed; calculated load; air flow rate from mass air flow sensor (if so equipped); fuel rate; and DPF delta pressure.
