
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Monitoring conditions for exhaust gas sensors.

(vii)(A) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraphs (g)(9)(ii)(A), (g)(9)(iii)(A), and (g)(9)(iv)(A) of this section (i.e., sensor performance) in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. For purposes of tracking and reporting as required in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, all monitors used to detect malfunctions identified in paragraphs (g)(9)(ii)(A), (g)(9)(iii)(A), and (g)(9)(iv)(A) of this section must be tracked separately but reported as a single set of values as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(B) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraphs (g)(9)(ii)(D), (g)(9)(iii)(D), and (g)(9)(iv)(D) of this section (i.e., monitoring function) in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section with the exception that monitoring must occur every time the monitoring conditions are met during the drive cycle rather than once per drive cycle as required in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(C) Except as provided for in paragraph (g)(9)(vii)(D) of this section, the OBD system must monitor continuously for malfunctions identified in paragraphs (g)(9)(ii)(B), (g)(9)(ii)(C), (g)(9)(iii)(B), (g)(9)(iii)(C), (g)(9)(iv)(B), (g)(9)(iv)(C) of this section (i.e., circuit integrity and feedback function).

(D) A manufacturer may request approval to disable continuous exhaust gas sensor monitoring when an exhaust gas sensor malfunction cannot be distinguished from other effects (e.g., disable monitoring for out-of-range on the low side during fuel cut conditions). To do so, the manufacturer must demonstrate via data and/or engineering analyses that a properly functioning sensor cannot be distinguished from a malfunctioning sensor and that the disablement interval is limited only to that necessary for avoiding falsemalfunction detection.
