
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Fuel system MIL activation and DTC storage.

(iv)(A) A pending DTC must be stored immediately upon the fuel system exceeding the malfunction criteria established in paragraph (h)(1)(ii) of this section.

(B) Except as provided for in paragraph (h)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, if a pending DTC is stored, the OBD system must activate the MIL immediately and store a MIL-on DTC if a malfunction is again detected during either the drive cycle immediately following storage of the pending DTC regardless of the conditions encountered during that drive cycle, or on the next drive cycle in which similar conditions are encountered to those that occurred when the pending DTC was stored. Similar conditions means engine conditions having an engine speed within 375 rpm, load conditions within 20 percent, and the same warm-up status (i.e., cold or hot) as the engine conditions stored pursuant to paragraph (h)(1)(iv)(E) of this section. Other definitions of similar conditions may be used but must result in comparable timeliness and reliability in detecting similar engine operation.

(C) The pending DTC may be erased at the end of the next drive cycle in which similar conditions have been encountered without having again exceeded the specified fuel system malfunction criteria. The pending DTC may also be erased if similar conditions are not encountered during the 80 drive cycles immediately following detection of the potential malfunction for which the pending DTC was stored.
