
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Fuel system malfunction criteria.

(ii)(A) The OBD system must detect a malfunction of the fuel delivery system (including feedback control based on a secondary oxygen sensor) when the fuel delivery system is unable to maintain an engine's emissions at or below the emissions thresholds for "other monitors" as shown in Table 2 of this paragraph (h).

(B) Except as provided for in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(C) of this section, if the engine is equipped with adaptive feedback control, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when the adaptive feedback control has used up all of the adjustment allowed by the manufacturer.

(C) If the engine is equipped with feedback control that is based on a secondary oxygen (or equivalent) sensor, the OBD system is not required to detect a malfunction of the fuel system solely when the feedback control based on a secondary oxygen sensor has used up all of the adjustment allowed by the manufacturer. However, if a failure or deterioration results in engine emissions that exceed the emissions thresholds for "other monitors" as shown in Table 2 of this paragraph (h), the OBD system is required to detect a malfunction.

(D) The OBD system must detect a malfunction whenever the fuel control system fails to enter closed loop operation following engine start within a manufacturer specified time interval. The specified time interval must be supported by data and/or engineering analyses submitted by the manufacturer.

(E) The manufacturer may adjust the malfunction criteria and/or monitoring conditions to compensate for changes in altitude, for temporary introduction of large amounts of purge vapor, or for other similar identifiable operating conditions when such conditions occur.
