
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### MIL activation and DTC storage for engine misfire causing emissions to exceed applicable emissions thresholds.

(v)(A) Immediately upon detection, during the first 1000 revolutions after engine start of the misfire percentage described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, a pending DTC must be stored. If such a pending DTC is stored already and another such exceedance of the misfire percentage is detected within the first 1000 revolutions after engine start on any subsequent drive cycle, the MIL must activate and a MIL-on DTC must be stored. The pending DTC may be erased if, at the end of the next drive cycle in which similar conditions are encountered to those that occurred when the pending DTC was stored, there has been no exceedance of the misfire percentage described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. The pending DTC may also be erased if similar conditions are not encountered during the next 80 drive cycles immediately following storage of the pending DTC.

(B) No later than the fourth detection during a single drive cycle, following the first 1000 revolutions after engine start of the misfire percentage described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, a pending DTC must be stored. If such a pending DTC is stored already, then the MIL must activate and a MIL-on DTC must be stored within 10 seconds of the fourth detection of the misfire percentage described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section during either the drive cycle immediately following storage of the pending DTC, regardless of the conditions encountered during that drive cycle excepting those conditions within the first 1000 revolutions after engine start, or on the next drive cycle in which similar conditions are encountered to those that occurred when the pending DTC was stored excepting those conditions within the first 1000 revolutions after engine start. The pending DTC may be erased if, at the end of the next drive cycle in which similar conditions are encountered to those that occurred when the pending DTC was stored, there has been no exceedance of the misfire percentage described in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section. The pending DTC may also be erased if similar conditions are not encountered during the next 80 drive cycles immediately following storage of the pending DTC.
