
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Engine misfire monitoring,General.

(2)-(i)(A) The OBD system must monitor the engine for misfire causing catalyst damage and misfire causing excess emissions.

(B) The OBD system must identify the specific cylinder that is misfiring. The manufacturer may store a general misfire DTC instead of a cylinder specific DTC under certain operating conditions. To do so, the manufacturer must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that the misfiring cylinder cannot be identified reliably when the conditions occur.

(C) If more than one cylinder is misfiring, a separate DTC must be stored to indicate that multiple cylinders are misfiring unless otherwise allowed by this paragraph (h)(2). When identifying multiple cylinder misfire, the OBD system is not required to also identify using separate DTCs each of the misfiring cylinders individually. If more than 90 percent of the detected misfires occur in a single cylinder, an appropriate DTC may be stored that indicates the specific misfiring cylinder rather than storing the multiple cylinder misfire DTC. If two or more cylinders individually have more than 10 percent of the total number of detected misfires, a multiple cylinder DTC must be stored.
