
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Exemptions for engines with fuel shutoff and default fuel control.

(D)In engines that provide for fuel shutoff and default fuel control to prevent over fueling during catalyst damaging misfire conditions, the MIL need not blink as required by paragraphs (h)(2)(iv)(A) and (h)(2)(iv)(B) of this section. Instead, the MIL may be activated continuously upon misfire detection provided that the fuel shutoff and default fuel control are activated immediately upon misfire detection. Fuel shutoff and default fuel control may be deactivated only when the engine is outside of the misfire range except that the manufacturer may periodically, but not more than once every 30 seconds, deactivate fuel shutoff and default fuel control to determine if the catalyst damaging misfire is still occurring. Normal fueling and fuel control may be resumed if the catalyst damaging misfire is no longer occurring.

(E) The manufacturer may use a strategy that activates the MIL continuously rather than blinking the MIL during extreme catalyst damage misfire conditions (i.e., catalyst damage misfire occurring at all engine speeds and loads). Use of such a strategy must be limited to catalyst damage misfire levels that cannot be avoided during reasonable driving conditions. To use such a strategy, the manufacturer must be able to demonstrate that the strategy will encourage operation of the vehicle in conditions that will minimize catalyst damage (e.g., at low engine speeds and loads).
