
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Misfire causing emissions to exceed the applicable thresholds.

(B)The manufacturer must determine the percentage of misfire evaluated in 1000 revolution increments that would cause emissions from an emissions durability demonstration engine to exceed the emissions thresholds for "other monitors" as shown in Table 2 of this paragraph (h) if that percentage of misfire were present from the beginning of the test. If this percentage of misfire is exceeded, regardless of the pattern of misfire events (e.g., random, equally spaced, continuous), it shall be considered a malfunction that must be detected. To establish this percentage of misfire, the manufacturer must use misfire events occurring at equally spaced, complete engine cycle intervals, across randomly selected cylinders throughout each 1000-revolution increment. If this percentage of misfire is determined to be lower than one percent, the manufacturer may set the malfunction criteria at one percent. The manufacturer may use a longer interval than 1000 revolutions. To do so, the manufacturer must demonstrate that the strategy would be equally effective and timely at detecting misfire.
