
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Secondary air system monitoring,General.

(5)-(i)The OBD system on engines equipped with any form of secondary air delivery system must monitor the proper functioning of the secondary air delivery system including all air switching valve(s). The individual electronic components (e.g., actuators, valves, sensors) that are used in the secondary air system must be monitored in accordance with the comprehensive component requirements in paragraph (i)(3) of this section. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(5), "air flow" is defined as the air flow delivered by the secondary air system to the exhaust system. For engines using secondary air systems with multiple air flow paths/distribution points, the air flow to each bank (i.e., a group of cylinders that share a common exhaust manifold, catalyst, and control sensor) must be monitored in accordance with the malfunction criteria in paragraph (h)(5)(ii) of this section. Also for purposes of this paragraph (h)(5), "normal operation" is defined as the condition when the secondary air system is activated during catalyst and/or engine warm-up following engine start. "Normal operation" does not include the condition when the secondary air system is turned on intrusively for the sole purpose of monitoring.
