
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Evaporative system monitoring conditions.

(iii)(A) The manufacturer must define monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraph (h)(7)(ii)(A) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(B) The manufacturer must define monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraph (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section. For purposes of tracking and reporting as required by paragraph (d)(1) of this section, all monitors used to detect malfunctions identified in paragraph (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section must be tracked separately but reported as a single set of values as specified in paragraph (e)(1)(iii) of this section.

(C) The manufacturer may disable or abort an evaporative system monitor when the fuel tank level is over 85 percent of nominal tank capacity or during a refueling event.

(D) The manufacturer may request Administrator approval to run the evaporative system monitor during only those drive cycles characterized as cold starts provided such a condition is needed to ensure reliable monitoring. In making the request, the manufacturer must demonstrate through data and/or engineering analyses that a reliable monitor can only be run on drive cycles that begin with a specific set of cold start criteria. A set of cold start criteria based solely on ambient temperature exceeding engine coolant temperature will not be acceptable.

(E) The OBD system may disable temporarily the evaporative purge system to run an evaporative system leak monitor.
