
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Monitoring conditions for the ECT sensor.

(v)(A) Except as provided for in paragraph (i)(1)(v)(D) of this section, the OBD system must monitor continuously for malfunctions identified in paragraph monitoring for malfunctions identified in paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(A) of this section (i.e., circuit integrity and out-of-range).

(B) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(B) of this section in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Additionally, except as provided for in paragraph (i)(1)(v)(D) of this section, monitoring for malfunctions identified in paragraph (i)(1)(iii)(B) of this section must be conducted once per drive cycle on every drive cycle in which the ECT sensor indicates a temperature lower than the closed-loop enable temperature at engine start (i.e., all engine start temperatures greater than the ECT sensor out-of-range low temperature and less than the closed-loop enable temperature).

(C) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraphs (i)(1)(iii)(C) and (i)(1)(iii)(D) of this section in accordance with paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section.

(D) The manufacturer may suspend or delay the monitor for the time to reach closed-loop enable temperature if the engine is subjected to conditions that could lead to false diagnosis (e.g., vehicle operation at idle for more than 50 to 75 percent of the warm-up time).

(E) The manufacturer may request Administrator approval to disable continuous ECT sensor monitoring when an ECT sensor malfunction cannot be distinguished from other effects. To do so, the manufacturer must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate a properly functioning sensor cannot be distinguished from a malfunctioning sensor and that the disablement interval is limited only to that necessary for avoiding false detection.
