
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Monitoring conditions for the thermostat.

(iv)(A) The manufacturer must define the monitoring conditions for malfunctions identified in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) of this section in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. Additionally, except as provided for in paragraphs (i)(1)(iv)(B) and (i)(1)(iv)(C) of this section, monitoring for malfunctions identified in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) of this section must be conducted once per drive cycle on every drive cycle in which the ECT sensor indicates, at engine start, a temperature lower than the temperature established as the malfunction criteria in paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.

(B) The manufacturer may disable thermostat monitoring at ambient engine start temperatures below 20 degrees Fahrenheit.

(C) The manufacturers may request Administrator approval to suspend or disable thermostat monitoring if the engine is subjected to conditions that could lead to false diagnosis. To do so, the manufacturer must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that the suspension or disablement is necessary. In general, the manufacturer will not be allowed to suspend or disable the thermostat monitor on engine starts where the engine coolant temperature at engine start is more than 35 degrees Fahrenheit lower than the thermostat malfunction threshold temperature determined under paragraph (i)(1)(ii)(A) of this section.
