
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Crankcase ventilation system malfunction criteria.

(ii)(A) For the purposes of this paragraph (i)(2), "CV system" is defined as any form of crankcase ventilation system, regardless of whether it utilizes positive pressure. "CV valve" is defined as any form of valve or orifice used to restrict or control crankcase vapor flow. Further, any additional external CV system tubing or hoses used to equalize crankcase pressure or to provide a ventilation path between various areas of the engine (e.g., crankcase and valve cover) are considered part of the CV system "between the crankcase and the CV valve" and subject to the malfunction criteria in paragraph (i)(2)(ii)(B) of this section.

(B) Except as provided for in paragraphs (i)(2)(ii)(C) through (i)(2)(ii)(E) of this section, the OBD system must detect a malfunction of the CV system when a disconnection of the system occurs between either the crankcase and the CV valve, or between the CV valve and the intake manifold.

(C) The manufacturer may forego monitoring for a disconnection between the crankcase and the CV valve provided the CV system is designed such that the CV valve is fastened directly to the crankcase such that it is significantly more difficult to remove the CV valve from the crankcase than to disconnect the line between the CV valve and the intake manifold (taking aging effects into consideration). To do so, the manufacturer must be able to provide data and/or an engineering evaluation demonstrating that the CV system is so designed.

(D) The manufacturer may forego monitoring for a disconnection between the crankcase and the CV valve provided the CV system is designed such that it uses tubing connections between the CV valve and the crankcase that are: resistant to deterioration or accidental disconnection; significantly more difficult to disconnect than is the line between the CV valve and the intake manifold; and, not subject to disconnection per the manufacturer's repair procedures for any non-CV system repair. To do so, the manufacturer must be able to provide data and/or engineering evaluation demonstrating that the CV system is so designed.

(E) The manufacturer may forego monitoring for a disconnection between the CV valve and the intake manifold provided the CV system is designed such that any disconnection either causes the engine to stall immediately during idle operation, or is unlikely to occur due to a CV system design that is integral to the induction system (e.g., machined passages rather than tubing or hoses). To do so, the manufacturer must be able to provide data and/or an engineering evaluation demonstrating that the CV system is so designed.
