
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Selection of test vehicles.

(ii)(A) The manufacturer must perform this testing every model year on ten unique production vehicles (i.e., engine rating and chassis application combination) per engine family. If there are less than ten unique production vehicles for a certain engine family, the manufacturer must test each unique production vehicle in that engine family. The manufacturer must perform this testing within either three months of the start of engine production or one month of the start of vehicle production, whichever is later. The manufacturer may request approval to group multiple production vehicles together and test one representative vehicle per group. To do so, the software and hardware designed to comply with the standardization requirements of paragraph (k)(1) of this section (e.g., communication protocol message timing, number of supported data stream parameters, engine and vehicle communication network architecture) in the representative vehicle must be identical to all others in the group and any differences in the production vehicles cannot be relevant with respect to meeting the criteria of paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section.

(B) For 2016 and subsequent model years, the required number of vehicles to be tested shall be reduced to five per engine family provided zero vehicles fail the testing required by paragraph (j)(1) of this section for two consecutive years.

(C) For 2019 and subsequent model years, the required number of vehicles to be tested shall be reduced to three per engine family provided zero vehicles fail the testing required by paragraph (j)(1) of this section for three consecutive years.

(D) The requirement for submittal of data from one or more of the production vehicles shall be waived if data have been submitted previously for all of the production vehicles. The manufacturer may request approval to carry over data collected in previous model years. To do so, the software and hardware designed to comply with the standardization requirements of paragraph (k)(1) of this section must be identical to the previous model year and there must not have been other hardware or software changes that affect compliance with the standardization requirements.

(E) For hybrid engine families with projected U.S.-directed production volume of less than 5,000 engines, the manufacturers are only required to test one engine-hybrid combination per family.
