
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Feedback control system monitoring.

(6)If the engine is equipped with feedback control of any of the systems covered in paragraphs (g), (h) and (i) of this section, then the OBD system must detect as malfunctions the conditions specified in this paragraph (i)(6) for each of the individual feedback controls.

(i) The OBD system must detect when the system fails to begin feedback control within a manufacturer specified time interval.

(ii) When any malfunction or deterioration causes open loop or limp-home operation.

(iii) When feedback control has used up all of the adjustment allowed by the manufacturer.

(iv) A manufacturer may temporarily disable monitoring for malfunctions specified in paragraph (i)(6)(iii) of this section during conditions that the specific monitor cannot distinguish robustly between a malfunctioning system and a properly operating system. To do so, the manufacturer is required to submit data and/or engineering analyses demonstrating that the individual feedback control system, when operating as designed on an engine with all emission controls working properly, routinely operates during these conditions while having used up all of the adjustment allowed by the manufacturer. In lieu of detecting, with a system specific monitor, the malfunctions specified in paragraphs (i)(6)(i) and (i)(6)(ii) of this section the OBD system may monitor the individual parameters or components that are used as inputs for individual feedback control systems provided that the monitors detect all malfunctions that meet the criteria of paragraphs (i)(6)(i) and (i)(6)(ii) of this section.
