
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Comprehensive component malfunction criteria for input components.

(ii)(A) The OBD system must detect malfunctions of input components caused by a lack of circuit continuity and out-of-range values. In addition, where feasible, rationality checks must also be done and shall verify that a sensor output is neither inappropriately high nor inappropriately low (i.e., "two-sided" monitoring).

(B) To the extent feasible, the OBD system must separately detect and store different DTCs that distinguish rationality malfunctions from lack of circuit continuity and out-of-range malfunctions. For lack of circuit continuity and out-of-range malfunctions, the OBD system must, to the extent feasible, separately detect and store different DTCs for each distinct malfunction (e.g., out-of-range low, out-of-range high, open circuit). The OBD system is not required to store separate DTCs for lack of circuit continuity malfunctions that cannot be distinguished from other out-of-range circuit malfunctions.

(C) For input components that are used to activate alternative strategies that can affect emissions (e.g., AECDs, engine shutdown systems), the OBD system must conduct rationality checks to detect malfunctions that cause the system to activate erroneously or deactivate the alternative strategy. To the extent feasible when using all available information, the rationality check must detect a malfunction if the input component inappropriately indicates a value that activates or deactivates the alternative strategy. For example, for an alternative strategy that activates when the intake air temperature is greater than 120 degrees Fahrenheit, the OBD system must detect malfunctions that cause the intake air temperature sensor to indicate inappropriately a temperature above 120 degrees Fahrenheit.

(D) For engines that require precise alignment between the camshaft and the crankshaft, the OBD system must monitor the crankshaft position sensor(s) and camshaft position sensor(s) to verify proper alignment between the camshaft and crankshaft in addition to monitoring the sensors for circuit continuity and proper rationality. Proper alignment monitoring between a camshaft and a crankshaft is required only in cases where both are equipped with position sensors. For engines equipped with VVT systems and a timing belt or chain, the OBD system must detect a malfunction if the alignment between the camshaft and crankshaft is off by one or more cam/crank sprocket cogs (e.g., the timing belt/chain has slipped by one or more teeth/cogs). If a manufacturer demonstrates that a single tooth/cog misalignment cannot cause a measurable increase in emissions during any reasonable driving condition, the OBD system must detect a malfunction when the minimum number of teeth/cogs misalignment has occurred that does cause a measurable emission increase.
