
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Exceptions to OBD monitoring requirements.

(5)(i) The Administrator may revise the PM filtering performance malfunction criteria for DPFs to exclude detection of specific failure modes such as partially melted substrates, if the most reliable monitoring method developed requires it.

(ii) The manufacturer may disable an OBD system monitor at ambient engine start temperatures below 20 degrees Fahrenheit (low ambient temperature conditions may be determined based on intake air or engine coolant temperature at engine start) or at elevations higher than 8,000 feet above sea level. To do so, the manufacturer must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that monitoring is unreliable during the disable conditions. A manufacturer may request that an OBD system monitor be disabled at other ambient engine start temperatures by submitting data and/or engineering analyses demonstrating that misdiagnosis would occur at the given ambient temperatures due to their effect on the component itself (e.g., component freezing).

(iii) The manufacturer may disable an OBD system monitor when the fuel level is 15 percent or less of the nominal fuel tank capacity for those monitors that can be affected by low fuel level or running out of fuel (e.g., misfire detection). To do so, the manufacturer must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that monitoring at the given fuel levels is unreliable, and that the OBD system is still able to detect a malfunction if the component(s) used to determine fuel level indicates erroneously a fuel level that causes the disablement.

(iv) The manufacturer may disable OBD monitors that can be affected by engine battery or system voltage levels.

(A) For an OBD monitor affected by low vehicle battery or system voltages, manufacturers may disable monitoring when the battery or system voltage is below 11.0 Volts. The manufacturer may use a voltage threshold higher than 11.0 Volts to disable monitors but must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that monitoring at those voltages is unreliable and that either operation of a vehicle below the disablement criteria for extended periods of time is unlikely or the OBD system monitors the battery or system voltage and will detect a malfunction at the voltage used to disable other monitors.

(B) For an OBD monitor affected by high engine battery or system voltages, the manufacturer may disable monitoring when the battery or system voltage exceeds a manufacturer-defined voltage. To do so, the manufacturer must submit data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that monitoring above the manufacturer-defined voltage is unreliable and that either the electrical charging system/alternator warning light will be activated (or voltage gauge would be in the "red zone") or the OBD system monitors the battery or system voltage and will detect a malfunction at the voltage used to disable other monitors.

(v) The manufacturer may also disable affected OBD monitors in systems designed to accommodate the installation of power take off (PTO) units provided monitors are disabled only while the PTO unit is active and the OBD readiness status (see paragraph (k)(4)(i) of this section) is cleared by the onboard computer (i.e., all monitors set to indicate "not complete" or "not ready") while the PTO unit is activated. If monitors are so disabled and when the disablement ends, the readiness status may be restored to its state prior to PTO activation.
