
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Comprehensive component malfunction criteria for output components/systems.

(iii)(A) The OBD system must detect a malfunction of an output component/system when proper functional response does not occur in response to computer commands. If such a functional check is not feasible, the OBD system must detect malfunctions of output components/systems caused by a lack of circuit continuity or circuit malfunction (e.g., short to ground or high voltage). For output component lack of circuit continuity malfunctions and circuit malfunctions, the OBD system is not required to store different DTCs for each distinct malfunction (e.g., open circuit, shorted low). Manufacturers are not required to activate an output component/system when it would not normally be active for the sole purpose of performing a functional check of it as required in this paragraph (i)(3).

(B) For gasoline engines, the idle control system must be monitored for proper functional response to computer commands. For gasoline engines using monitoring strategies based on deviation from target idle speed, a malfunction must be detected when either of the following conditions occurs: The idle speed control system cannot achieve the target idle speed within 200 revolutions per minute (rpm) above the target speed or 100 rpm below the target speed; or, the idle speed control system cannot achieve the target idle speed within the smallest engine speed tolerance range required by the OBD system to enable any other monitors. Regarding the former of these conditions, the manufacturer may use larger engine speed tolerances. To do so, the manufacturer must be able to provide data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate that the tolerances can be exceeded without a malfunction being present.

(C) For diesel engines, the idle control system must be monitored for proper functional response to computer commands. For diesel engines, a malfunction must be detected when either of the following conditions occurs: the idle fuel control system cannot achieve the target idle speed or fuel injection quantity within +/-50 percent of the manufacturer-specified fuel quantity and engine speed tolerances; or, the idle fuel control system cannot achieve the target idle speed or fueling quantity within the smallest engine speed or fueling quantity tolerance range required by the OBD system to enable any other monitors.

(D) For model years 2010 through 2012, glow plugs must be monitored for circuit continuity malfunctions. For model years 2010 and later, intake air heater systems and, for model years 2013 and later, glow plugs must be monitored for proper functional response to computer commands and for circuit continuity malfunctions. The glow plug/intake air heater circuit(s) must be monitored for proper current and voltage drop. The manufacturer may use other monitoring strategies but must be able to provide data and/or engineering analyses that demonstrate reliable and timely detection of malfunctions. The OBD system must also detect a malfunction when a single glow plug no longer operates within the manufacturer's specified limits for normal operation. If a manufacturer can demonstrate that a single glow plug malfunction cannot cause a measurable increase in emissions during any reasonable driving condition, the OBD system must instead detect a malfunction when the number of glow plugs needed to cause an emission increase is malfunctioning. To the extent feasible, the stored DTC must identify the specific malfunctioning glow plug(s).

(E) The wait-to-start lamp circuit and the MIL circuit must be monitored for malfunctions that cause either lamp to fail to activate when commanded to do so (e.g., burned out bulb). This monitoring of the wait-to-start lamp circuit and the MIL circuit is not required for wait-to-start lamps and MILs using light-emitting diodes (LEDs).
