
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Evaluation requirements.

(iii)(A) The evaluation must demonstrate the ability of the OBD system on the selected test vehicle to detect a malfunction, activate the MIL, and, where applicable, store an appropriate DTC readable by a scan tool when a malfunction is present and the monitoring conditions have been satisfied for each individual monitor required by this section. For model years 2013 and later, the evaluation must demonstrate the ability of the OBD system on the selected test vehicle to detect a malfunction, activate the MIL, and, where applicable, store an appropriate DTC readable by a SAE J1978 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) scan tool when a malfunction is present and the monitoring conditions have been satisfied for each individual monitor required by this section.

(B) The evaluation must verify that the malfunction of any component used to enable another OBD monitor but that does not itself result in MIL activation (e.g., fuel level sensor) will not inhibit the ability of other OBD monitors to detect malfunctions properly.

(C) The evaluation must verify that the software used to track the numerator and denominator for the purpose of determining in-use monitoring frequency increments as required by paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(D) Malfunctions may be implanted mechanically or simulated electronically, but internal onboard computer hardware or software changes shall not be used to simulate malfunctions. For monitors that are required to indicate a malfunction before emissions exceed an emission threshold, manufacturers are not required to use malfunctioning components/systems set exactly at their malfunction criteria limits. Emission testing is not required to confirm that the malfunction is detected before the appropriate emission thresholds are exceeded.

(E) The manufacturer must submit a proposed test plan for approval prior to performing evaluation testing. The test plan must identify the method used to induce a malfunction for each monitor.

(F) If the demonstration of a specific monitor cannot be reasonably performed without causing physical damage to the test vehicle (e.g., onboard computer internal circuit malfunctions), the manufacturer may omit the specific demonstration.

(G) For evaluation of test vehicles selected in accordance with paragraph (j)(2)(ii) of this section, the manufacturer is not required to demonstrate monitors that were demonstrated prior to certification as required in paragraph (l) of this section.

(iv) The manufacturer must submit a report of the results of all testing conducted as required by paragraph (j)(2) of this section. The report must identify the method used to induce a malfunction in each monitor, the MIL activation status, and the DTC(s) stored.
