
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Reporting of results.

(v)The manufacturer must submit to the Administrator the following, based on the results of the testing required by paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section:

(A) If a variant meets all the requirements of paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section, a statement specifying that the variant passed all the tests. Upon request from the Administrator, the detailed results of any such testing may have to be submitted.

(B) If any variant does not meet the requirements paragraph (j)(1)(iv) of this section, a written report detailing the problem(s) identified and the manufacturer's proposed corrective action (if any) to remedy the problem(s). This report must be submitted within one month of testing the specific variant. The Administrator will consider the proposed remedy and, if in disagreement, will work with the manufacturer to propose an alternative remedy. Factors to be considered by the Administrator in considering the proposed remedy will include the severity of the problem(s), the ability of service technicians to access the required diagnostic information, the impact on equipment and tool manufacturers, and the amount of time prior to implementation of the proposed corrective action.
