
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Verification of in-use monitoring performance ratios.

(3)(i) The manufacturer must collect and report in-use monitoring performance data representative of production vehicles (i.e., engine rating and chassis application combination). The manufacturer must collect and report the data to the Administrator within 12 months after the first production vehicle was first introduced into commerce.

(ii) The manufacturer must separate production vehicles into the monitoring performance groups and submit data that represents each of these groups. The groups shall be based on the following criteria:

(A) Emission control system architecture. All engines that use the same or similar emissions control system architecture (e.g., EGR with DPF and SCR; EGR with DPF and NOadsorber; EGR with DPF-only) and associated monitoring system would be in the same emission architecture category.

(B) Vehicle application type. Within an emission architecture category, engines shall be separated into one of three vehicle application types: Engines intended primarily for line-haul chassis applications, engines intended primarily for urban delivery chassis applications, and all other engines.

(iii) The manufacturer may use an alternative grouping method to collect representative data. To do so, the manufacturer must show that the alternative groups include production vehicles using similar emission controls, OBD strategies, monitoring condition calibrations, and vehicle application driving/usage patterns such that they are expected to have similar in-use monitoring performance. The manufacturer will still be required to submit one set of data for each of the alternative groups.

(iv) For each monitoring performance group, the data must include all of the in-use performance tracking data (i.e., all numerators, denominators, the general denominator, and the ignition cycle counter), the date the data were collected, the odometer reading, the VIN, and the calibration ID. For model years 2013 and later, for each monitoring performance group, the data must include all of the in-use performance tracking data reported through SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section; i.e., all numerators, denominators, the general denominator, and the ignition cycle counter), the date the data were collected, the odometer reading, the VIN, and the calibration ID.

(v) The manufacturer must submit a plan to the Administrator that details the types of production vehicles in each monitoring performance group, the number of vehicles per group to be sampled, the sampling method, the timeline to collect the data, and the reporting format. The plan must provide for effective collection of data from, at least, 15 vehicles per monitoring performance group and provide for data that represent a broad range of temperature conditions. The plan shall not, by design, exclude or include specific vehicles in an attempt to collect data only from vehicles expected to have the highest in-use performance ratios.

(vi) The 12 month deadline for reporting may be extended to 18 months if the manufacturer can show that the delay is justified. In such a case, an interim report of progress to date must be submitted within the 12 month deadline.
