
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Diagnostic connector.

(2)For model years 2010 through 2012, the manufacturer defined data link connector must be accessible to a trained service technician. For model years 2013 and later, a standard data link connector conforming to SAE J1962 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) or SAE J1939-13 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications (except as provided for in paragraph (k)(2)(iii) if this section) must be included in each vehicle.

(i) For model years 2013 and later, the connector must be located in the driver's side foot-well region of the vehicle interior in the area bound by the driver's side of the vehicle and the driver's side edge of the center console (or the vehicle centerline if the vehicle does not have a center console) and at a location no higher than the bottom of the steering wheel when in the lowest adjustable position. The connector shall not be located on or in the center console (i.e., neither on the horizontal faces near the floor-mounted gear selector, parking brake lever, or cup-holders nor on the vertical faces near the car stereo, climate system, or navigation system controls). The location of the connector shall be capable of being easily identified and accessed (e.g., to connect an off-board tool). For vehicles equipped with a driver's side door, the connector must be identified and accessed easily by someone standing (or "crouched") on the ground outside the driver's side of the vehicle with the driver's side door open. The Administrator may approve an alternative location upon request from the manufacturer. In all cases, the installation position of the connector must be both identified and accessed easily by someone standing outside the vehicle and protected from accidental damage during normal vehicle use.

(ii) For model years 2013 and later, if the connector is covered, the cover must be removable by hand without the use of any tools and be labeled "OBD" to aid technicians in identifying the location of the connector. Access to the diagnostic connector shall not require opening or the removal of any storage accessory (e.g., ashtray, coinbox). The label must clearly identify that the connector is located behind the cover and is consistent with language and/or symbols commonly used in the automobile and/or heavy truck industry.

(iii) For model years 2013 and later, if the ISO 15765-4:2005(E) (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) communication protocol is used for the required OBD standardized functions, the connector must meet the "Type A" specifications of SAE J1962 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section). Any pins in the connector that provide electrical power must be properly fused to protect the integrity and usefulness of the connector for diagnostic purposes and shall not exceed 20.0 Volts DC regardless of the nominal vehicle system or battery voltage (e.g., 12V, 24V, 42V).

(iv) For model years 2013 and later, if the SAE J1939 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) protocol is used for the required OBD standardized functions, the connector must meet the specifications of SAE J1939-13 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section). Any pins in the connector that provide electrical power must be properly fused to protect the integrity and usefulness of the connector for diagnostic purposes.

(v) For model years 2013 and later, the manufacturer may equip engines/vehicles with additional diagnostic connectors for manufacturer-specific purposes (i.e., purposes other than the required OBD functions). However, if the additional connector conforms to the "Type A" specifications of SAE J1962 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) or the specifications of SAE J1939-13 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) and is located in the vehicle interior near the required connector as described in this paragraph (k)(2), the connector(s) must be labeled clearly to identify which connector is used to access the standardized OBD information required by paragraph (k) of this section.
