
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Ready status.

(i)The OBD system must indicate, in accordance with SAE J1979 or SAE J1939-73 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications for model years 2013 and later, "complete" or "not complete" for each of the installed monitored components and systems identified in paragraphs (g), (h) with the exception of (h)(4), and (i)(3) of this section. All components or systems identified in paragraphs (h)(1), (h)(2), or (i)(3) of this section that are monitored continuously must always indicate "complete." Components or systems that are not subject to being monitored continuously must immediately indicate "complete" upon the respective monitor(s) being executed fully and determining that the component or system is not malfunctioning. A component or system must also indicate "complete" if, after the requisite number of decisions necessary for determining MIL status has been executed fully, the monitor indicates a malfunction of the component or system. The status for each of the monitored components or systems must indicate "not complete" whenever diagnostic memory has been cleared or erased by a means other than that allowed in paragraph (b) of this section. Normal vehicle shut down (i.e., key-off/engine-off) shall not cause the status to indicate "not complete."

(A) The manufacturer may request that the ready status for a monitor be set to indicate "complete" without the monitor having completed if monitoring is disabled for a multiple number of drive cycles due to the continued presence of extreme operating conditions (e.g., cold ambient temperatures, high altitudes). Any such request must specify the conditions for monitoring system disablement and the number of drive cycles that would pass without monitor completion before ready status would be indicated as "complete."

(B) For the evaporative system monitor, the ready status must be set in accordance with this paragraph (k)(4)(i) when both the functional check of the purge valve and, if applicable, the leak detection monitor of the hole size specified in paragraph (h)(7)(ii)(B) of this section indicate that they are complete.

(C) If the manufacturer elects to indicate ready status through the MIL in the key-on/engine-off position as provided for in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, the ready status must be indicated in the following manner: If the ready status for all monitored components or systems is "complete," the MIL shall remain continuously activated in the key-on/engine-off position for at least 10-20 seconds. If the ready status for one or more of the monitored components or systems is "not complete," after at least 5 seconds of operation in the key-on/engine-off position with the MIL activated continuously, the MIL shall blink once per second for 5-10 seconds. The data stream value for MIL status as required in paragraph (k)(4)(ii) of this section must indicate "commanded off" during this sequence unless the MIL has also been "commanded on" for a detected malfunction.
