
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Test results.

(v)(A) For model years 2010 through 2012 and except as provided for in paragraph (k)(4)(v)(G) of this section, for all monitored components and systems identified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, results of the most recent monitoring of the components and systems and the test limits established for monitoring the respective components and systems must be stored and available through the data link. For model years 2013 and later and except as provided for in paragraph (k)(4)(v)(G) of this section, for all monitored components and systems identified in paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, results of the most recent monitoring of the components and systems and the test limits established for monitoring the respective components and systems must be stored and available through the data link in accordance with the standardized format specified in SAE J1979 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) for engines using the ISO 15765-4:2005(E) (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) protocol or SAE J1939 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section).

(B) The test results must be reported such that properly functioning components and systems (e.g., "passing" systems) do not store test values outside of the established test limits. Test limits must include both minimum and maximum acceptable values and must be defined so that a test result equal to either test limit is a "passing" value, not a "failing" value.

(C) For model years 2013 and later, the test results must be standardized such that the name of the monitored component (e.g., catalyst bank 1) can be identified by a generic scan tool and the test results and limits can be scaled and reported by a generic scan tool with the appropriate engineering units.

(D) The test results must be stored until updated by a more recent valid test result or the DTC memory of the OBD system computer is cleared. Upon DTC memory being cleared, test results reported for monitors that have not yet completed with valid test results since the last time the fault memory was cleared must report values of zero for the test result and test limits.

(E) All test results and test limits must always be reported and the test results must be stored until updated by a more recent valid test result or the DTC memory of the OBD system computer is cleared.

(F) The OBD system must store and report unique test results for each separate monitor.

(G) The requirements of this paragraph (k)(4)(v) do not apply to continuous fuel system monitoring, cold start emission reduction strategy monitoring, and continuous circuit monitoring.
