
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Software calibration identification (CAL ID).

(vi)On all engines, a single software calibration identification number (CAL ID) for each monitor or emission critical control unit(s) must be made available through, for model years 2010 through 2012, the data link connector or, for model years 2013 and later, the standardized data link connector in accordance with the SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications. A unique CAL ID must be used for every emission-related calibration and/or software set having at least one bit of different data from any other emission-related calibration and/or software set. Control units coded with multiple emission or diagnostic calibrations and/or software sets must indicate a unique CAL ID for each variant in a manner that enables an off-board device to determine which variant is being used by the engine. Control units that use a strategy that will result in MIL activation if the incorrect variant is used (e.g., control units that contain variants for manual and automatic transmissions but will activate the MIL if the selected variant does not match the type of transmission mated to the engine) are not required to use unique CAL IDs. Manufacturers may request Administrator approval to respond with more than one CAL ID per diagnostic or emission critical control unit. Administrator approval of the request shall be based on the method used by the manufacturer to ensure each control unit will respond to a scan tool with the CAL IDs in order of highest to lowest priority with regards to areas of the software most critical to emission and OBD system performance.
