
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Software calibration verification number (CVN).

(vii)(A) All engines must use an algorithm to calculate a single calibration verification number (CVN) that verifies the on-board computer software integrity for each monitor or emission critical control unit that is electronically reprogrammable. The CVN must be made available through, for model years 2010 through 2012, the data link connector or, for model years 2013 and later, the standardized data link connector in accordance with the SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications. The CVN must indicate whether the emission-related software and/or calibration data are valid and applicable for the given vehicle and CAL ID. For systems having more than one CAL ID as allowed under paragraph (k)(4)(vi) of this section, one CVN must be made available for each CAL ID and must be output to a scan tool in the same order as the corresponding CAL IDs. For 2010 through 2012, manufacturers may use a default value for the CVN if their emissions critical powertrain control modules are not programmable in the field. For all years, manufacturers may use a default value for the CVN if their emissions critical powertrain control modules are one-time programmable or masked read-only memory. Any default CVN shall be 00000000 for systems designed in accordance with the SAE J1979 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications, and FFFFFFFFh for systems designed in accordance with the SAE J1939 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications.

(B) The CVN algorithm used to calculate the CVN must be of sufficient complexity that the same CVN is difficult to achieve with modified calibration values.

(C) The CVN must be calculated at least once per ignition cycle and stored until the CVN is subsequently updated. Except for immediately after a reprogramming event or a non-volatile memory clear or for the first 30 seconds of engine operation after a volatile memory clear or battery disconnect, the stored value must be made available through, for model years 2010 through 2012, the data link connector to, at a minimum, a manufacturer scan tool or, for model years 2013 and later, the data link connector to a generic scan tool in accordance with SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications. For model years 2010 through 2012, the stored CVN value shall not be erased when DTC memory is erased or during normal vehicle shut down (i.e., key-off/engine-off). For model years 2013 and later, the stored CVN value shall not be erased when DTC memory is erased by a generic scan tool in accordance with SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications or during normal vehicle shut down (i.e., key-off/engine-off).

(D) For model years 2013 and later, the CVN and CAL ID combination information must be available for all engines/vehicles in a standardized electronic format that allows for off-board verification that the CVN is valid and appropriate for a specific vehicle and CAL ID.
