
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### For model years 2013 and later.

(iii)(A) A manufacturer certifying one to five engine families in a given model year must provide emissions test data for a single test engine from one engine rating. A manufacturer certifying six to ten engine families in a given model year must provide emissions test data for a single test engine from two different engine ratings. A manufacturer certifying eleven or more engine families in a given model year must provide emissions test data for a single test engine from three different engine ratings. A manufacturer may forego submittal of test data for one or more of these test engines if data have been submitted previously for all of the engine ratings and/or if all requirements for certification carry-over from one model year to the next are satisfied.

(B) For a given model year, a manufacturer may elect to provide emissions data for test engines from more engine ratings than required by paragraph (l)(2)(iii)(A) of this section. For each additional engine rating tested in that given model year, the number of engine ratings required for testing in one future model year will be reduced by one.

(iv) For the test engine, the manufacturer must use an engine (excluding aftertreatment devices) aged for a minimum of 125 hours fitted with exhaust aftertreatment emission controls aged to be representative of useful life aging. In the event that an accelerated aging procedure is used, the manufacturer is required to submit a description of the accelerated aging process and/or supporting data or use the accelerated aging procedure used for emission certification deterioration factor generation. The process and/or data must demonstrate that deterioration of the exhaust aftertreatment emission controls is stabilized sufficiently such that it represents emission control performance at the end of the useful life.
