
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### In-use performance ratio tracking requirements.

(5)(i) For each monitor required in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section to separately report an in-use performance ratio, manufacturers must implement software algorithms to, for model years 2010 through 2012, report a numerator and denominator or, for model years 2013 and later, report a numerator and denominator in the standardized format specified in this paragraph (k)(5) in accordance with the SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications.

(ii) For the numerator, denominator, general denominator, and ignition cycle counters required by paragraph (e) of this section, the following numerical value specifications apply:

(A) Each number shall have a minimum value of zero and a maximum value of 65,535 with a resolution of one.

(B) Each number shall be reset to zero only when a non-volatile random access memory (NVRAM) reset occurs (e.g., reprogramming event) or, if the numbers are stored in keep-alive memory (KAM), when KAM is lost due to an interruption in electrical power to the control unit (e.g., battery disconnect). Numbers shall not be reset to zero under any other circumstances including when a scan tool command to clear DTCs or reset KAM is received.

(C) To avoid overflow problems, if either the numerator or denominator for a specific component reaches the maximum value of 65,535 +/-2, both numbers shall be divided by two before either is incremented again.

(D) To avoid overflow problems, if the ignition cycle counter reaches the maximum value of 65,535 +/-2, the ignition cycle counter shall rollover and increment to zero on the next ignition cycle.

(E) To avoid overflow problems, if the general denominator reaches the maximum value of 65,535 +/-2, the general denominator shall rollover and increment to zero on the next drive cycle that meets the general denominator definition.

(F) If a vehicle is not equipped with a component (e.g., oxygen sensor bank 2, secondary air system), the corresponding numerator and denominator for that specific component shall always be reported as zero.

(iii) For the ratio required by paragraph (e) of this section, the following numerical value specifications apply:

(A) The ratio shall have a minimum value of zero and a maximum value of 7.99527 with a resolution of 0.000122.

(B) The ratio for a specific component shall be considered to be zero whenever the corresponding numerator is equal to zero and the corresponding denominator is not zero.

(C) The ratio for a specific component shall be considered to be the maximum value of 7.99527 if the corresponding denominator is zero or if the actual value of the numerator divided by the denominator exceeds the maximum value of 7.99527.
