
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix K to Part 50 - Interpretation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Particulate Matter
###### Year
####### Clock/timer system.

7.4.12

(a) The sampler shall have a programmable real-time clock timing/control system that:

(1) Is capable of maintaining local time and date, including year, month, day-of-month, hour, minute, and second to an accuracy of +/-1.0 minute per month.

(2) Provides a visual indication of the current system time, including year, month, day-of-month, hour, and minute, updated at least each minute, for operator verification.

(3) Provides appropriate operator controls for setting the correct local time and date.

(4) Is capable of starting the sample collection period and sample air flow at a specific, operator-settable time and date, and stopping the sample air flow and terminating the sampler collection period 24 hours (1440 minutes) later, or at a specific, operator-settable time and date.

(b) These start and stop times shall be readily settable by the sampler operator to within +/-1.0 minute. The system shall provide a visual indication of the current start and stop time settings, readable to +/-1.0 minute, for verification by the operator, and the start and stop times shall also be available via the data output port, as specified in table L-1 of section 7.4.19 of this appendix. Upon execution of a programmed sample period start, the sampler shall automatically reset all sample period information and warning flag indications pertaining to a previous sample period. Refer also to section 7.4.15.4 of this appendix regarding retention of current date and time and programmed start and stop times during a temporary electrical power interruption.
