
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Engine run time tracking requirements.

(6)(i) For all gasoline and diesel engines, the manufacturer must implement software algorithms to, for model years 2010 through 2012, track and report individually or, for model years 2013 and later, track and report individually in a standardized format the amount of time the engine has been operated in the following conditions:

(A) Total engine run time.

(B) Total idle run time (with "idle" defined as accelerator pedal released by the driver, engine speed less than or equal to 200 rpm above normal warmed-up idle (as determined in the drive position for vehicles equipped with an automatic transmission) or vehicle speed less than or equal to one mile per hour, and power take-off not active).

(C) Total run time with power take off active.

(ii) For each counter specified in paragraph (k)(6)(i) of this section, the following numerical value specifications apply:

(A) Each number shall be a four-byte value with a minimum value of zero, a resolution of one second per bit, and an accuracy of +/-ten seconds per drive cycle.

(B) Each number shall be reset to zero only when a non-volatile memory reset occurs (e.g., reprogramming event). Numbers shall not be reset to zero under any other circumstances including when a scan tool (generic or enhanced) command to clear fault codes or reset KAM is received.

(C) To avoid overflow problems, if any of the individual counters reach the maximum value, all counters shall be divided by two before any are incremented again.

(D) For model years 2010 through 2012, the counters shall be made available to, at a minimum, a manufacturer scan tool and may be rescaled when transmitted from a resolution of one second per bit to no more than three minutes per bit. For model years 2013 and later, the counters shall be made available to a generic scan tool in accordance with the SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) specifications and may be rescaled when transmitted, if required by the SAE specifications, from a resolution of one second per bit to no more than three minutes per bit.

(7) For 2019 and subsequent model year alternative-fueled engines derived from a diesel-cycle engine, a manufacturer may meet the standardization requirements of paragraph (k) of this section that are applicable to diesel engines rather than the requirements applicable to gasoline engines.
