
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Required testing for gasoline-fueled/spark-ignition engines,Fuel system.

(ii)-(A)For engines with adaptive feedback based on the primary fuel control sensor(s), the manufacturer must perform a test with the adaptive feedback based on the primary fuel control sensor(s) at the rich limit(s) and a test at the lean limit(s) established by the manufacturer as required by paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section to detect a malfunction before emissions exceed applicable emissions thresholds. For engines with feedback based on a secondary fuel control sensor(s) and subject to the malfunction criteria in paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section, the manufacturer must perform a test with the feedback based on the secondary fuel control sensor(s) at the rich limit(s) and a test at the lean limit(s) established by the manufacturer as required by paragraph (h)(1)(ii)(A) of this section to detect a malfunction before emissions exceed the applicable emissions thresholds. For other fuel metering or control systems, the manufacturer must perform a test at the criteria limit(s). For purposes of fuel system testing as required by this paragraph (l)(3)(ii)(A), the malfunction(s) induced may result in a uniform distribution of fuel and air among the cylinders. Non uniform distribution of fuel and air used to induce a malfunction shall not cause misfire. In conducting the fuel system demonstration tests, the manufacturer may use computer modifications to cause the fuel system to operate at the malfunction limit. To do so, the manufacturer must be able to demonstrate that the computer modifications produce test results equivalent to an induced hardware malfunction.
