
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Test sequence.

(ii)(A) The manufacturer must set individually each system or component on the test engine at the malfunction criteria limit prior to conducting the applicable preconditioning cycle(s). If a second preconditioning cycle is permitted in accordance with paragraph (l)(4)(i) of this section, the manufacturer may adjust the system or component to be tested before conducting the second preconditioning cycle. The manufacturer shall not replace, modify, or adjust the system or component after the last preconditioning cycle has been completed.

(B) After preconditioning, the test engine must be operated over the applicable cycle to allow for the initial detection of the tested system or component malfunction. This test cycle may be omitted from the testing protocol if it is unnecessary. If required by the monitoring strategy being tested, a cold soak may be performed prior to conducting this test cycle.

(C) The test engine must then be operated over the applicable exhaust emissions test.

(iii) A manufacturer required to test more than one test engine according to paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section may use internal calibration sign-off test procedures (e.g., forced cool downs, less frequently calibrated emission analyzers) instead of official test procedures to obtain the emission test data required by this paragraph (l) of this section for all but one of the required test engines. The manufacturer may elect this option if the data from the alternative test procedure are representative of official emissions test results. A manufacturer using this option is still responsible for meeting the malfunction criteria specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section if and when emissions tests are performed in accordance with official test procedures.

(iv) The manufacturer may request approval to use an alternative testing protocol for demonstration of MIL activation if the engine dynamometer emission test cycle does not allow all of a given monitor's enable conditions to be satisfied. The manufacturer may request the use of an alternative engine dynamometer test cycle or the use of chassis testing to demonstrate proper MIL activation. To do so, the manufacturer must demonstrate the technical necessity for using an alternative test cycle and the degree to which the alternative test cycle demonstrates that in-use operation with the malfunctioning component will result in proper MIL activation.
