
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Evaluation protocol.

(5)Full OBD engine ratings, as defined by paragraph (o)(1) of this section, shall be evaluated according to the following protocol:

(i) For all tests conducted as required by paragraph (l) of this section, the MIL must activate before the end of the first engine start portion of the applicable test.

(ii) If the MIL activates prior to emissions exceeding the applicable malfunction criteria limits specified in paragraphs (g) through (i), no further demonstration is required. With respect to the misfire monitor demonstration test, if the manufacturer has elected to use the minimum misfire malfunction criteria of one percent as allowed in paragraphs (g)(2)(ii)(B), if applicable, and (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, no further demonstration is required provided the MIL activates with engine misfire occurring at the malfunction criteria limit.

(iii) If the MIL does not activate when the system or component is set at its malfunction criteria limit(s), the criteria limit(s) or the OBD system is not acceptable.

(A) Except for testing of the catalyst or DPF system, if the MIL first activates after emissions exceed the applicable malfunction criteria specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section, the test engine shall be retested with the tested system or component adjusted so that the MIL will activate before emissions exceed the applicable malfunction criteria specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section. If the component cannot be so adjusted because an alternative fuel or emission control strategy is used when a malfunction is detected (e.g., open loop fuel control used after an oxygen sensor malfunction is detected), the test engine shall be retested with the component adjusted to the worst acceptable limit (i.e., the applicable OBD monitor indicates that the component is performing at or slightly better than the malfunction criteria limit). When tested with the component so adjusted, the MIL must not activate during the test and the engine emissions must be below the applicable malfunction criteria specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section.

(B) In testing the catalyst or DPF system, if the MIL first activates after emissions exceed the applicable emissions threshold(s) specified in paragraphs (g) and (h), the tested engine shall be retested with a less deteriorated catalyst or DPF system (i.e., more of the applicable engine out pollutants are converted or trapped). For the OBD system to be approved, testing shall be continued until the MIL activates with emissions below the applicable thresholds of paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section, or the MIL activates with emissions within a range no more than 20 percent below the applicable emissions thresholds and 10 percent or less above those emissions thresholds.

(iv) If an OBD system is determined to be unacceptable by the criteria of this paragraph (l)(5) of this section, the manufacturer may recalibrate and retest the system on the same test engine. In such a case, the manufacturer must confirm, by retesting, that all systems and components that were tested prior to the recalibration and are affected by it still function properly with the recalibrated OBD system.
