
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT AND ASSESSING THE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF EPA ACTIONS
##### Subpart B - EPA's NEPA Environmental Review Procedures
###### ยง 6.206 Findings of no significant impact.

(a) The Responsible Official may issue a finding of no significant impact (FONSI) (see 40 CFR 1508.13) only if the EA supports the finding that the proposed action will not have a significant effect on the human environment. If the EA does not support a FONSI, the Responsible Official must prepare an EIS and issue a ROD before taking action on the proposed action.

(b) Consistent with 40 CFR 1508.13, a FONSI must include:

(1) The EA, or in lieu of the EA, a summary of the supporting EA that includes a brief description of the proposed action and alternatives considered in the EA, environmental factors considered, and project impacts; and

(2) A brief description of the reasons why there are no significant impacts.

(c) In addition, the FONSI must include:

(1) Any commitments to mitigation that are essential to render the impacts of the proposed action not significant;

(2) The date of issuance; and

(3) The signature of the Responsible Official.

(d) The Responsible Official must ensure that an applicant that has committed to mitigation possesses the authority and ability to fulfill the commitments.

(e) The Responsible Official must make a preliminary FONSI available to the public in accordance with section 6.203(b) of this part before taking action.

(f) The Responsible Official may proceed with the action subject to any mitigation measures described in the FONSI after responding to any substantive comments received on the preliminary FONSI during the 30-day comment period, or 30 days after issuance of the FONSI if no substantive comments are received.

(g) The Responsible Official must ensure that the mitigation measures necessary to the FONSI determination, at a minimum, are enforceable, and conduct appropriate monitoring of the mitigation measures.

(h) The Responsible Official may revise a FONSI at any time provided the revision is supported by an EA. A revised FONSI is subject to all provisions of paragraph (d) of this section.
