
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### For model years 2013 through 2015.

(2)(i) On the full OBD ratings as defined in paragraph (o)(2) of this section, separate in-use emissions thresholds shall apply. These thresholds are determined by doubling the applicable thresholds as shown in Table 1 of paragraph (g) and Table 2 of paragraph (h) of this section. The resultant thresholds apply only in-use and do not apply for certification or selective enforcement auditing.

(ii) The extrapolated OBD ratings as defined in paragraph (o)(2) of this section shall not be evaluated against emissions levels for purposes of OBD compliance in-use.

(iii) Only the test cycle and standard determined and identified by the manufacturer at the time of certification in accordance with paragraph (f) of this section as the most stringent shall be used for the purpose of determining OBD system noncompliance in-use.

(iv) For monitors subject to meeting the minimum in-use monitor performance ratio of 0.100 in paragraph (d)(1)(ii), the OBD system shall not be considered noncompliant unless a representative sample indicates the in-use ratio is below 0.050.

(v) An OBD system shall not be considered noncompliant solely due to a failure or deterioration mode of a monitored component or system that could not have been reasonably foreseen to occur by the manufacturer.
