
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Certification documentation requirements.

(m)(1) When submitting an application for certification of an engine, the manufacturer must submit the following documentation. If any of the items listed here are standardized for all of the manufacturer's engines, the manufacturer may, for each model year, submit one set of documents covering the standardized items for all of its engines.

(i) For the required documentation that is not standardized across all engines, the manufacturer may be allowed to submit documentation for certification from one engine that is representative of other engines. All such engines shall be considered to be part of an OBD certification documentation group. To represent the OBD group, the chosen engine must be certified to the most stringent emissions standards and OBD monitoring requirements and cover all of the emissions control devices for the engines in the group and covered by the submitted documentation. Such OBD groups must be approved in advance of certification.

(ii) Upon approval, one or more of the documentation requirements of this paragraph (m) of this section may be waived or modified if the information required is redundant or unnecessarily burdensome to generate.

(iii) To the extent possible, the certification documentation must use SAE J1930 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) or SAE J2403 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) terms, abbreviations, and acronyms as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section.

(2) Unless otherwise specified, the following information must be submitted as part of the certification application and prior to receiving a certificate.

(i) A description of the functional operation of the OBD system including a complete written description for each monitoring strategy that outlines every step in the decision-making process of the monitor. Algorithms, diagrams, samples of data, and/or other graphical representations of the monitoring strategy shall be included where necessary to adequately describe the information.

(ii) A table including the following information for each monitored component or system (either computer-sensed or computer-controlled) of the emissions control system:

(A) Corresponding diagnostic trouble code.

(B) Monitoring method or procedure for malfunction detection.

(C) Primary malfunction detection parameter and its type of output signal.

(D) Malfunction criteria limits used to evaluate output signal of primary parameter.

(E) Other monitored secondary parameters and conditions (in engineering units) necessary for malfunction detection.

(F) Monitoring time length and frequency of monitoring events.

(G) Criteria for storing a diagnostic trouble code.

(H) Criteria for activating a malfunction indicator light.

(I) Criteria used for determining out-of-range values and input component rationality checks.

(iii) Whenever possible, the table required by paragraph (m)(2)(ii) of this section shall use the following engineering units:

(A) Degrees Celsius for all temperature criteria.

(B) KiloPascals (KPa) for all pressure criteria related to manifold or atmospheric pressure.

(C) Grams (g) for all intake air mass criteria.

(D) Pascals (Pa) for all pressure criteria related to evaporative system vapor pressure.

(E) Miles per hour (mph) for all vehicle speed criteria.

(F) Relative percent (%) for all relative throttle position criteria (as defined in SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section)).

(G) Voltage (V) for all absolute throttle position criteria (as defined in SAE J1979 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section)).

(H) Per crankshaft revolution (/rev) for all changes per ignition event based criteria (e.g., g/rev instead of g/stroke or g/firing).

(I) Per second (/sec) for all changes per time based criteria (e.g., g/sec).

(J) Percent of nominal tank volume (%) for all fuel tank level criteria.

(iv) A logic flowchart describing the step-by-step evaluation of the enable criteria and malfunction criteria for each monitored emission related component or system.

(v) Emissions test data, a description of the testing sequence (e.g., the number and types of preconditioning cycles), approximate time (in seconds) of MIL activation during the test, diagnostic trouble code(s) and freeze frame information stored at the time of detection, corresponding test results (e.g. SAE J1979 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) Mode/Service $06, SAE J1939 (as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) Diagnostic Message 8 (DM8)) stored during the test, and a description of the modified or deteriorated components used for malfunction simulation with respect to the demonstration tests specified in paragraph (l) of this section. The freeze frame data are not required for engines termed "Extrapolated OBD" engines.

(vi) For gasoline engines, data supporting the misfire monitor, including:

(A) The established percentage of misfire that can be tolerated without damaging the catalyst over the full range of engine speed and load conditions.

(B) Data demonstrating the probability of detection of misfire events by the misfire monitoring system over the full engine speed and load operating range for the following misfire patterns: random cylinders misfiring at the malfunction criteria established in paragraph (h)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, one cylinder continuously misfiring, and paired cylinders continuously misfiring.

(C) Data identifying all disablement of misfire monitoring that occurs during the FTP. For every disablement that occurs during the cycles, the data shall identify: when the disablement occurred relative to the driver's trace, the number of engine revolutions during which each disablement was present, and which disable condition documented in the certification application caused the disablement.

(D) Manufacturers are not required to use the durability demonstration engine to collect the misfire data required by paragraph (m)(2)(vi) of this section.

(vii) Data supporting the limit for the time between engine starting and attaining the designated heating temperature for after-start heated catalyst systems.

(viii) Data supporting the criteria used to detect a malfunction of the fuel system, EGR system, boost pressure control system, catalyst, NOadsorber, DPF, cold start emission reduction strategy, secondary air, evaporative system, VVT system, exhaust gas sensors, and other emission controls that causes emissions to exceed the applicable malfunction criteria specified in paragraphs (g) through (i) of this section. For diesel engine monitors required by paragraphs (g) and (i) of this section that are required to indicate a malfunction before emissions exceed an emission threshold based on any applicable standard (e.g., 2.5 times any of the applicable standards), the test cycle and standard determined by the manufacturer to be the most stringent for each applicable monitor in accordance with paragraph (f)(1) of this section.

(ix) A list of all electronic powertrain input and output signals (including those not monitored by the OBD system) that identifies which signals are monitored by the OBD system. For input and output signals that are monitored as comprehensive components, the listing shall also identify the specific diagnostic trouble code for each malfunction criteria (e.g., out-of-range low, out-of-range high, open circuit, rationality low, rationality high).

(x) A written description of all parameters and conditions necessary to begin closed-loop/feedback control of emission control systems (e.g., fuel system, boost pressure, EGR flow, SCR reductant delivery, DPF regeneration, fuel system pressure).

(xi) A written identification of the communication protocol utilized by each engine for communication with a scan tool (model years 2010 through 2012) or an SAE J1978 or SAE J1939 (both as specified in paragraph (k)(1) of this section) scan tool (model years 2013 and later).

(xii) For model years 2013 and later, a pictorial representation or written description of the diagnostic connector location including any covers or labels.

(xiii) A written description of the method used by the manufacturer to meet the requirements of paragraph (i)(2) of this section (crankcase ventilation system monitoring) including diagrams or pictures of valve and/or hose connections.

(xiv) Build specifications provided to engine purchasers or chassis manufacturers detailing all specifications or limitations imposed on the engine purchaser relevant to OBD requirements or emissions compliance (e.g., cooling system heat rejection rates, allowable MIL locations, connector location specifications). A description of the method or copies of agreements used to ensure engine purchasers or chassis manufacturers will comply with the OBD and emissions relevant build specifications (e.g., signed agreements, required audit/evaluation procedures).

(xv) Any other information determined by the Administrator to be necessary to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this section.

(3) In addition to the documentation required by paragraphs (m)(1) and (m)(2) of this section, a manufacturer making use of paragraph (a)(5) of this section must submit the following information with their application for certification.

(i) A detailed description of how the OBD system meets the intent of ยง 86.010-18.

(ii) A detailed description of why the manufacturer has chosen not to design the OBD system to meet the requirements of ยง 86.010-18 and has instead designed the OBD system to meet the applicable California OBD requirements.

(iii) A detailed description of any deficiencies granted by the California staff and any concerns raised by California staff. A copy of a California Executive Order alone will not be considered acceptable toward meeting this requirement. This description shall also include, to the extent feasible, a plan with timelines for resolving deficiencies and/or concerns.
