
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### Deficiencies.

(n)(1) Upon application by the manufacturer, the Administrator may accept an OBD system as compliant even though specific requirements are not fully met. Such compliances without meeting specific requirements, or deficiencies, will be granted only if compliance is infeasible or unreasonable considering such factors as, but not limited to: Technical feasibility of the given monitor and lead time and production cycles including phase-in or phase-out of engines or vehicle designs and programmed upgrades of computers. Unmet requirements shall not be carried over from the previous model year except where unreasonable hardware or software modifications are necessary to correct the deficiency, and the manufacturer has demonstrated an acceptable level of effort toward compliance as determined by the Administrator. Furthermore, EPA will not accept any deficiency requests that include the complete lack of a major diagnostic monitor ("major" diagnostic monitors being those for exhaust aftertreatment devices, oxygen sensor, air-fuel ratio sensor, NOsensor, engine misfire, evaporative leaks, and diesel EGR, if equipped), with the possible exception of the special provisions for alternative fueled engines. For alternative fueled heavy-duty engines (e.g., natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, methanol, ethanol), manufacturers may request the Administrator to waive specific monitoring requirements of this section for which monitoring may not be reliable with respect to the use of the alternative fuel. At a minimum, alternative fuel engines must be equipped with an OBD system meeting OBD requirements to the extent feasible as approved by the Administrator.

(2) In the event the manufacturer seeks to carry-over a deficiency from a past model year to the current model year, the manufacturer must re-apply for approval to do so. In considering the request to carry-over a deficiency, the Administrator shall consider the manufacturer's progress towards correcting the deficiency. The Administrator may not allow manufacturers to carry over monitoring system deficiencies for more than two model years unless it can be demonstrated that substantial engine hardware modifications and additional lead time beyond two years are necessary to correct the deficiency.

(3) A deficiency shall not be granted retroactively (i.e., after the engine has been certified).

(o) [Reserved]
