
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### For model years 2016 through 2018

(3). (i) On the engine ratings tested according to paragraph (l)(2)(iii) of this section, the certification emissions thresholds shall apply in-use.

(ii) On the manufacturer's remaining engine ratings, separate in-use emissions thresholds shall apply. These thresholds are determined by doubling the applicable thresholds as shown in Table 1 of paragraph (g) of this section and Table 2 of paragraph (h) of this section. The resultant thresholds apply only in-use and do not apply for certification or selective enforcement auditing.

(iii) For monitors subject to meeting the minimum in-use monitor performance ratio of 0.100 in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section, the OBD system shall not be considered noncompliant unless a representative sample indicates the in-use ratio is below 0.088 except for filtering performance monitors for PM filters (paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(A) of this section) and missing substrate monitors (paragraph (g)(8)(ii)(D) of this section) for which the OBD system shall not be considered noncompliant unless a representative sample indicates the in-use ratio is below 0.050.

(iv) An OBD system shall not be considered noncompliant solely due to a failure or deterioration mode of a monitored component or system that could not have been reasonably foreseen to occur by the manufacturer.
