
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.

(a) The manufacturer shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the purchaser of each new motor vehicle (or motor vehicle engine) subject to the standards prescribed in § 86.099-8, § 86.004-9, § 86.004-10, or § 86.004-11, as applicable, written instructions for the proper maintenance and use of the vehicle (or engine), by the purchaser consistent with the provisions of § 86.004-25, which establishes what scheduled maintenance the Administrator approves as being reasonable and necessary.

(1) The maintenance instructions required by this section shall be in clear, and to the extent practicable, nontechnical language.

(2) The maintenance instructions required by this section shall contain a general description of the documentation which the manufacturer will require from the ultimate purchaser or any subsequent purchaser as evidence of compliance with the instructions.

(b) Instructions provided to purchasers under paragraph (a) of this section shall specify the performance of all scheduled maintenance performed by the manufacturer on certification durability vehicles and, in cases where the manufacturer performs less maintenance on certification durability vehicles than the allowed limit, may specify the performance of any scheduled maintenance allowed under § 86.004-25.

(c) Scheduled emission-related maintenance in addition to that performed under § 86.004-25(b) may only be recommended to offset the effects of abnormal in-use operating conditions, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The manufacturer shall be required to demonstrate, subject to the approval of the Administrator, that such maintenance is reasonable and technologically necessary to assure the proper functioning of the emission control system. Such additional recommended maintenance shall be clearly differentiated, in a form approved by the Administrator, from that approved under § 86.004-25(b).

(d) Inspections of emission-related parts or systems with instructions to replace, repair, clean, or adjust the parts or systems if necessary, are not considered to be items of scheduled maintenance which insure the proper functioning of the emission control system. Such inspections, and any recommended maintenance beyond that approved by the Administrator as reasonable and necessary under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, may be included in the written instructions furnished to vehicle owners under paragraph (a) of this section: Provided, That such instructions clearly state, in a form approved by the Administrator, that the owner need not perform such inspections or recommended maintenance in order to maintain the emissions defect and emissions performance warranty or manufacturer recall liability.

(e) The manufacturer may choose to include in such instructions an explanation of any distinction between the useful life specified on the label, and the emissions defect and emissions performance warranty period. The explanation must clearly state that the useful life period specified on the label represents the average period of use up to retirement or rebuild for the engine family represented by the engine used in the vehicle. An explanation of how the actual useful lives of engines used in various applications are expected to differ from the average useful life may be included. The explanation(s) shall be in clear, non-technical language that is understandable to the ultimate purchaser.

(f) If approved by the Administrator, the instructions provided to purchasers under paragraph (a) of this section shall indicate what adjustments or modifications, if any, are necessary to allow the vehicle to meet applicable emission standards at elevations above 4,000 feet, or at elevations of 4,000 feet or less.

(g) Manufacturers are subject to the service-information requirements of § 86.1808-01(f) beginning in the 2005 model year for manufacturers of heavy-duty vehicles and heavy-duty engines weighing 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW) and less that are subject to the OBD requirements of this part.

(h) The manufacturer shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the purchaser of each new motor engine subject to the standards prescribed in § 86.004-10 or § 86.004-11, as applicable, the following:

(1) Instructions for all maintenance needed after the end of the useful life of the engine for critical emissions-related components as provided in § 86.004-25(b), including recommended practices for diagnosis, cleaning, adjustment, repair, and replacement of the component (or a statement that such component is maintenance free for the life of the engine) and instructions for accessing and responding to any emissions-related diagnostic codes that may be stored in on-board monitoring systems;

(2) A copy of the engine rebuild provisions contained in § 86.004-40.

(i) Through model year 2013, the manufacturer shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the ultimate purchaser the following statement for each new diesel-fueled engine subject to the standards prescribed in § 86.007-11, as applicable: "This engine must be operated only with ultra low-sulfur diesel fuel (meeting EPA specifications for highway diesel fuel, including a 15 ppm sulfur cap)."

(j) The following provisions describe requirements related to emission control diagnostic service information for heavy-duty engines used in vehicles over 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW):

(1) Manufacturers of heavy-duty engines used in applications weighing more than 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW) that are subject to the applicable OBD requirements of this subpart A are subject to the provisions of this paragraph (j) beginning in the 2010 model year. The provisions of this paragraph (j) apply only to those heavy-duty engines subject to the applicable OBD requirements.

(2) Upon Administrator approval, manufacturers of vehicles may alternatively comply with all service information and tool provisions found in § 86.1808-01 that are applicable to 2001 and subsequent model year vehicles weighing less than 14,000 pounds gross vehicle weight (GVW). Upon Administrator approval, manufacturers that produce engines for use in vehicles between 8,500 and 14,000 pounds may, for those engines, alternatively comply with all service information and tool provisions in § 86.010-38(j) that are applicable to 2010 and subsequent model year vehicles over 14,000 pounds. Implementation dates must comply with the service information provision dates applicable to engines in vehicles between 8,500 and 14,000 pounds.
