
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### i.e.,

(3) Engine-hybrid systems may be certified to the requirements of paragraph (q)(2) of this section by the engine manufacturer, the hybrid system manufacturer, or the vehicle manufacturer. If engine manufacturers certify the engine hybrid system, they must provide detailed installation instructions. Where the engine manufacturer does not specifically certify its engines for use in hybrid vehicles under this paragraph (q), the hybrid system manufacturer and vehicle manufacturer must install the engine to conform to the requirements of this section (full OBD) or recertify under paragraph (q)(2) of this section.

(4) The provisions of this paragraph (q) apply for model year 2016 engines where you demonstrate that the hybrid powertrain system used is a derivative of a design that was offered for sale prior to January 1, 2013. In this case, you may ask us to consider the original system and the later system to be the same model for purposes of this paragraph (q), unless the systems are fundamentally different. In determining whether such systems are derivative or fundamentally different, we will consider factors such as the similarity of the following:

(i) Transmissions.

(ii) Hybrid machines (where "hybrid machine" means any system that is the part of a hybrid vehicle system that captures energy from and returns energy to the powertrain).

(iii) Hybrid architecture (such as parallel or series).

(iv) Motor/generator size, controller/CPU (memory or inputs/outputs), control algorithm, and batteries. This paragraph (q)(4)(iv) applies only if all of these are modified simultaneously.

(5) Manufacturers choosing to use the provisions of this paragraph (q) must submit an annual pre-compliance report to EPA for model years 2013 and later. Engine manufacturers must submit this report with their engine certification information. Hybrid manufacturers that are not certifying the engine-hybrid system must submit their report by June 1 of the model year, or at the time of certification if they choose to certify. Include the following in the report:

(i) A description of the manufacturer's product plans and of the engine-hybrid systems being certified.

(ii) A description of activities undertaken and progress made by the manufacturer towards achieving full OBD certification, including monitoring, diagnostics, and standardization.

(iii) For model year 2016 engines, a description of your basis for applying the provision of this paragraph (q) to the engines.

(6) Manufacturers that modify the engine's diagnostic system from the approved configuration to be compatible with a hybrid powertrain system under this paragraph (q) must add the following compliance statement to the ECI label: "for use in hybrid applications only".
