
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-18 On-board Diagnostics for engines used in applications greater than 14,000 pounds GVWR.
####### e.g.

(1) If an engine-hybrid system has been certified by the California Air Resources Board with respect to its OBD requirements and it effectively meets the full OBD requirements of this section, all equivalent systems must meet those same requirements and may not be certified under this paragraph (q). For purposes of this paragraph (q)(1), an engine-hybrid system is considered to be equivalent to the certified system if it uses the same basic design (displacement) for the engine and primary hybrid components (see paragraph (q)(4) of this section). Equivalent systems may have minor hardware or calibration differences.

(2) As of 2013, if an engine-hybrid system has not been certified to meet the full OBD requirements of this section, it must comply with the following requirements:

(i) The engine in its installed configuration must meet the EMD and EMD + requirements in 13 CCR ยง 1971.1(d)(7.1.4) of the California Code of Regulations. For purposes of this paragraph (q), a given EMD requirement is deemed to be met if the engine's OBD system addresses the same function. This allowance does not apply for OBD monitors or diagnostics that have been modified under paragraph (q)(2)(ii) of this section.

(ii) The engine-hybrid system must maintain existing OBD capability for engines where the same or equivalent engine has been OBD certified. An equivalent engine is one produced by the same engine manufacturer with the same fundamental design, but that may have hardware or calibration differences that do not impact OBD functionality, such as slightly different displacement, rated power, or fuel system. (Note that engines with the same fundamental design will be presumed to be equivalent unless the manufacturer demonstrates that the differences effectively preclude applying equivalent OBD systems.) Though the OBD capability must be maintained, it does not have to meet detection thresholds (as described in Tables 1 and 2 of this section) and in-use performance frequency requirements (as described in paragraph (d) of this section). A manufacturer may modify detection thresholds to prevent false detection, and must indicate all deviations from the originally certified package with engineering justification in the certification documentation.

(iii) This paragraph (q)(2)(iii) applies for derivatives of hybrid powertrain system designs that were offered for sale prior to January 1, 2013. Until these systems achieve full OBD certification, they must at a minimum maintain all fault-detection and diagnostic capability included on similar systems offered for sale prior to 2013. Manufacturers choosing to use the provisions of this paragraph (q)(2) must keep copies of the service manuals (and similar documents) for these previous model years to show the technical description of the system's fault detection and diagnostic capabilities.

(iv) You must submit an annual pre-compliance report to EPA for model years 2013 and later, as specified in paragraph (q)(5) of this section.
