
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Required information.

(6)All information relevant to the diagnosis and completion of emissions-related repairs shall be posted on manufacturer Web sites. This excludes indirect information specified in paragraphs (j)(7) and (j)(13) through (j)(17) of this section. To the extent that this information does not already exist in some form for their manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks, manufacturers are required to develop and make available the information required by this section to both their manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks and the aftermarket. The required information includes, but is not limited to:

(i) Manuals, including subsystem and component manuals developed by a manufacturer's third party supplier that are made available to manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks, technical service bulletins (TSBs), recall service information, diagrams, charts, and training materials. Informal recall service information such as engineering notes and/or sketches are not required to be made available as long as this information is not made available to manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks in the form of manuals. Manuals and other such service information from third party suppliers are not required to be made available in full-text on manufacturer Web sites as described in paragraph (j)(4) of this section. Rather, manufacturers must make available on the manufacturer Web site as required by paragraph (j)(4) of this section an index of the relevant information and instructions on how to order such information. In the alternate, a manufacturer can create a link from its Web site to the Web site(s) of the third party supplier.

(ii) OBD system information which includes, but is not limited to, the following:

(A) A general description of the operation of each monitor, including a description of the parameter that is being monitored;

(B) A listing of all typical OBD diagnostic trouble codes associated with each monitor;

(C) A description of the typical enabling conditions (either generic or monitor-specific) for each monitor (if equipped) to execute during engine operation, including, but not limited to, minimum and maximum intake air and engine coolant temperature, speed range, and time after engine startup. In addition, manufacturers shall list all monitor-specific OBD drive cycle information for all major OBD monitors as equipped including, but not limited to, catalyst, catalyst heater, oxygen sensor, oxygen sensor heater, evaporative system, exhaust gas re-circulation (EGR), secondary air, and air conditioning system. Additionally, for diesel engines which also perform misfire, fuel system and comprehensive component monitoring under specific driving conditions (i.e., non-continuous monitoring; as opposed to spark ignition engines that monitor these systems under all conditions or continuous monitoring), the manufacturer shall make available monitor-specific drive cycles for these monitors. Any manufacturer who develops generic drive cycles, either in addition to, or instead of, monitor-specific drive cycles shall also make these available in full-text on manufacturer Web sites;

(D) A listing of each monitor sequence, execution frequency and typical duration;

(E) A listing of typical malfunction thresholds for each monitor;

(F) For OBD parameters for specific engines that deviate from the typical parameters, the OBD description shall indicate the deviation and provide a separate listing of the typical values for those engines;

(G) Identification and scaling information necessary to interpret and understand data available through Diagnostic Message 8 pursuant to SAE J1939-73 (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section), or through Service/Mode $06 pursuant to SAE J1979 (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section).

(H) Algorithms, look-up tables, or any values associated with look-up tables are not required to be made available.

(iii) Any information regarding any system, component, or part of a engine monitored by the OBD system that could in a failure mode cause the OBD system to illuminate the malfunction indicator light (MIL);

(iv) Manufacturer-specific emissions-related diagnostic trouble codes (DTCs) and any related service bulletins, troubleshooting guides, and/or repair procedures associated with these manufacturer-specific DTCs; and

(v) Information regarding how to obtain the information needed to perform reinitialization of any computer or anti-theft system following an emissions-related repair.
