
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Information dissemination.

(4)By July 1, 2010 each manufacturer shall provide or cause to be provided to the persons specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section and to any other interested parties a manufacturer-specific World Wide Web site containing the information specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section for 2010 and later model year engines which have been certified to the OBD requirements specified in ยง 86.010-18 and are offered for sale; this requirement does not apply to indirect information, including the information specified in paragraphs (j)(13) through (j)(17) of this section. Upon request and approval of the Administrator, manufacturers who can demonstrate significant hardship in complying with this provision by August 27, 2009, may request an additional six months lead time to meet this requirement. Each manufacturer Web site shall:

(i) Provide access in full-text to all of the information specified in paragraph (j)(6) of this section.

(ii) Be updated at the same time as manufacturer franchised dealership or authorized service network World Wide Web sites.

(iii) Provide users with a description of the minimum computer hardware and software needed by the user to access that manufacturer's information (e.g., computer processor speed and operating system software). This description shall appear when users first log-on to the home page of the manufacturer's Web site.

(iv) Upon Administrator approval, implement a range of time periods for online access to any person specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section whereby the user will be able to access the site, search for the information, and purchase, view and print the information at a fair and reasonable cost as specified in paragraph (j)(8) of this section for each of the options. In addition, for each of the range of time periods, manufacturers are required to make their entire site accessible for the respective period of time and price. In other words, a manufacturer may not limit Web site access to just one make or one model.

(v) Allow the user to search the manufacturer Web site by various topics including but not limited to model, model year, key words or phrases, etc., while allowing ready identification of the latest calibration. Manufacturers who do not use model year to classify their engines in their service information may use an alternate delineation such as body series. Any manufacturer utilizing this flexibility shall create a cross-reference to the corresponding model year and provide this cross-reference on the manufacturer Web site home page.

(vi) Provide accessibility using common, readily available software and shall not require the use of software, hardware, viewers, or browsers that are not readily available to the general public. Manufacturers shall also provide hyperlinks to any plug-ins, viewers or browsers (e.g. Adobe Acrobat or Netscape) needed to access the manufacturer Web site.

(vii) Allow simple hyper-linking to the manufacturer Web site from Government Web sites and automotive-related Web sites.

(viii) Possess sufficient server capacity to allow ready access by all users and has sufficient capacity to assure that all users may obtain needed information without undue delay.

(ix) Correct or delete any reported broken Web links on a weekly basis.

(x) Allow for Web site navigation that does not require a user to return to the manufacturer home page or a search engine in order to access a different portion of the site.

(xi) Allow users to print out any and all of the materials required to be made available on the manufacturers Web site that can be reasonably printed on a standard printer, including the ability to print it at the user's location.
