
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Required emissions-related training information.

(11)By January 1, 2011, for emissions-related training information, manufacturers shall:

(i) Video tape or otherwise duplicate and make available for sale on manufacturer Web sites within 30 days after transmission any emissions-related training courses provided to manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks via the Internet or satellite transmission. Manufacturers shall not be required to duplicate transmitted emissions-related training courses if anyone engaged in the repairing or servicing of heavy-duty engines has the opportunity to receive the Internet or satellite transmission, even if there is a cost associated with the equipment required to receive the transmission;

(ii) Provide on the manufacturer Web site an index of all emissions-related training information available for purchase by aftermarket service providers for 2010 and newer engines. The required information must be made available for purchase within 3 months of model introduction and then must be made available at the same time it is made available to manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks, whichever is earlier. The index shall describe the title of the course or instructional session, the cost of the video tape or duplicate, and information on how to order the item(s) from the manufacturer Web site. All of the items available must be shipped within 3 business day of the order being placed and are to made available at a fair and reasonable price as described in paragraph (j)(8) of this section. Manufacturers unable to meet the 3 business day shipping requirement under circumstances where orders exceed supply and additional time is needed by the distributor to reproduce the item being ordered, may exceed the 3 business day shipping requirement, but in no instance can take longer than 14 days to ship the item.
