
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Generic and enhanced information for scan tools.

(14)By July 1, 2013, manufacturers shall make available to equipment and tool companies all generic and enhanced service information including bi-directional control and data stream information as defined in paragraph (j)(3(ii) of this section. This requirement applies for 2013 and later model year engines.

(i) The information required by this paragraph (j)(14) shall be provided electronically using common document formats to equipment and tool companies with whom they have appropriate licensing, contractual, and/or confidentiality arrangements. To the extent that a central repository for this information (e.g. the TEK-NET library developed by the Equipment and Tool Institute) is used to warehouse this information, the Administrator shall have free unrestricted access. In addition, information required by this paragraph (j)(14) shall be made available to equipment and tool companies who are not otherwise members of any central repository and shall have access if the non-members have arranged for the appropriate licensing, contractual and/or confidentiality arrangements with the manufacturer and/or a central repository.

(ii) In addition to the generic and enhanced information defined in paragraph (j)(3)(ii) of this section, manufacturers shall also make available the following information necessary for developing generic diagnostic scan tools:

(A) The physical hardware requirements for data communication (e.g., system voltage requirements, cable terminals/pins, connections such as RS232 or USB, wires, etc.),

(B) Electronic Control Unit (ECU) data communication (e.g., serial data protocols, transmission speed or baud rate, bit timing requirements, etc.),

(C) Information on the application physical interface (API) or layers. (i.e., processing algorithms or software design descriptions for procedures such as connection, initialization, and termination),

(D) Engine application information or any other related service information such as special pins and voltages or additional connectors that require enablement and specifications for the enablement.

(iii) Any manufacturer who utilizes an automated process in their manufacturer-specific scan tool for diagnostic fault trees shall make available to equipment and tool companies the data schema, detail specifications, including category types/codes and codes, and data format/content structure of the diagnostic trouble trees.

(iv) Manufacturers can satisfy the requirement of paragraph (j)(14)(iii) of this section by making available diagnostic trouble trees on their manufacturer Web sites in full-text.

(v) Manufacturers shall make all required information available to the requesting equipment and tool company within 14 days after the request to purchase has been made unless the manufacturer requests Administrator approval to refuse to disclose such information to the requesting company or requests Administrator approval for additional time to comply. After receipt of a request and consultation with the affected parties, the Administrator shall either grant or refuse the petition based on the evidence submitted during the consultation process:

(A) If the evidence demonstrates that the engine manufacturer has a reasonably based belief that the requesting equipment and tool company could not produce safe and functionally accurate tools that would not cause damage to the engine, the petition for non-disclosure will be granted. Engine manufacturers are not required to provide data stream and bi-directional control information that would permit an equipment and tool company's products to modify an EPA-certified engine or transmission configuration.

(B) If the evidence does not demonstrate that the engine manufacturer has a reasonably-based belief that the requesting equipment and tool company could not produce safe and functionally accurate tools that would not cause damage to the engine, the petition for non-disclosure will be denied and the engine manufacturer, as applicable, shall make the requested information available to the requesting equipment and tool company within 2 days of the denial.

(vi) If the manufacturer submits a request for Administrator approval for additional time, and satisfactorily demonstrates to the Administrator that the engine manufacturer is able to comply but requires additional time within which to do so, the Administrator shall grant the request and provide additional time to fully and expeditiously comply.

(vii) Manufacturers may require that tools using information covered under paragraph (j)(14) of this section comply with the Component Identifier message specified in SAE J1939-71 (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section) as Parameter Group Number (PGN) 65249 (including the message parameter's make, model, and serial number) and the SAE J1939-81 (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section) Address Claim PGN.

(viii) Manufacturers are not required to make available to equipment and tool companies any information related to reconfiguration capabilities or any other information that would make permanent changes to existing engine configurations.
