
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Availability of manufacturer-specific scan tools.

(15)(i) By July 1, 2013, manufacturers shall make available for sale to the persons specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section their own manufacturer-specific diagnostic tools at a fair and reasonable cost. These tools shall also be made available in a timely fashion either through the manufacturer Web site or through a manufacturer-designated intermediary. Upon Administrator approval, manufacturers will not be required to make available manufacturer-specific tools with reconfiguration capabilities if they can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Administrator that these tools are not essential to the completion of an emissions-related repair, such as recalibration. As a condition of purchase, manufacturers may request that the purchaser take all necessary training offered by the engine manufacturer. Any required training materials and classes must comply with the following:

(A) Similar training must be required by the engine manufacturer for the use of the same tool by its franchised dealerships or authorized service networks;

(B) The training must be substantially similar to such training in terms of material covered and the length of training;

(C) The training must be made available within six months after a tool request has been made;

(D) The training must be made available at a fair and reasonable price.

(ii) Manufacturers shall ship purchased tools in a timely manner after a request and training, if any, has been completed. Any required training materials and classes must be made available at a fair and reasonable price. Manufacturers who develop different versions of one or more of their diagnostic tools that are used in whole or in part for emission-related diagnosis and repair shall also insure that all emission-related diagnosis and repair information is available for sale to the aftermarket at a fair and reasonable cost. Factors for determining fair and reasonable cost include, but are not limited to:

(A) The net cost to the manufacturer's franchised dealerships or authorized service network for similar tools obtained from manufacturers, less any discounts, rebates, or other incentive programs;

(B) The cost to the manufacturer for preparing and distributing the tools, excluding any research and development costs;

(C) The price charged by other manufacturers of similar sizes for similar tools;

(D) The capabilities and functionality of the manufacturer tool;

(E) The means by which the tools are distributed;

(F) Inflation;

(G) The ability of aftermarket technicians and shops to afford the tools.

Manufacturers shall provide technical support to aftermarket service providers for the tools described in this section, either themselves or through a third-party of their choice.
