
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Prohibited acts, liability and remedies.

(19)(i) It is a prohibited act for any person to fail to promptly provide or cause a failure to promptly provide information as required by this paragraph (j), or to otherwise fail to comply or cause a failure to comply with any provision of this subsection.

(ii) Any person who fails or causes the failure to comply with any provision of this paragraph (j) is liable for a violation of that provision. A corporation is presumed liable for any violations of this subpart that are committed by any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or parents that are substantially owned by it or substantially under its control.

(iii) Any person who violates a provision of this paragraph (j) shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $ 31,500 per day for each violation. This maximum penalty is shown for calendar year 2002. Maximum penalty limits for later years may be set higher based on the Consumer Price Index, as specified in 40 CFR part 19. In addition, such person shall be liable for all other remedies set forth in Title II of the Clean Air Act, remedies pertaining to provisions of Title II of the Clean Air Act, or other applicable provisions of law.

(iv) Manufacturers will not have any emissions warranty, in-use compliance, defect reporting or recall liability for service on a heavy-duty engine that is not undertaken by the manufacturer, for any damage caused by their own tools in the hands of independent service providers, or for the use and misuse of third party tools.
