
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Reference materials.

(17)Manufacturers shall conform with the following industry standards. These documents are incorporated by reference in ยง 86.1. Anyone may inspect copies at the U.S. EPA or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at U.S. EPA, NARA, or the standard making bodies directly, refer to ยง 86.1.

(i) SAE J1939-71, Revised January 2008. For providing a means for the application processes to access the OSI environment, manufacturers shall comply with this industry standard.

(ii) SAE J1939-73, Revised September 2006. For identification and scaling information necessary to interpret and understand data available through Diagnostic Message 8, manufacturers shall comply with this industry standard. In the alternate, manufacturers may comply with Service/Mode $06 pursuant to SAE J1979, Revised May 2007. These recommended practices describe the implementation of diagnostic test modes for emissions related test data. Manufacturers shall comply with either SAE J1939-73 or SAE J1979 beginning with Model Year 2013.

(iii) SAE J1939-81, Revised May 2003. For management of source addresses and the association of those address with an actual function and with the detection and reporting of network realized errors, manufacturers shall comply with this industry standard.

(iv) SAE J2403, Revised August 2007. For Web-based delivery of service information, manufacturers shall comply with this industry standard which standardizes various terms, abbreviations, and acronyms associated with on-board diagnostics. Manufacturers shall comply with SAE J2403 beginning with the Model Year 2013.

(v) TMC RP 1210B, Revised June 2007. For pass-thru reprogramming capabilities, manufacturers shall comply with Technology and Maintenance Council's (TMC) Recommended Practice TMC RP 1210B. In the alternate, manufacturers may comply with SAE J2534-1, Revised December 2004. These recommended practices provide technical specifications and information that manufacturers must supply to equipment and tool companies to develop aftermarket pass-thru reprogramming tools. Manufacturers shall comply with either TMC RP 1210B or SAE J2534-1 beginning with Model Year 2013.
