
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.010-38 Maintenance instructions.
####### Recalibration information.

(13)(i) Manufacturers shall make available to the persons specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section all emissions-related recalibration or reprogramming events (including driveability reprogramming events that may affect emissions) in the format of their choice at the same time they are made available to manufacturer franchised dealerships or authorized service networks. This requirement applies on July 1, 2013.

(ii) Manufacturers shall provide persons specified in paragraph (j)(3)(i) of this section with an efficient and cost-effective method for identifying whether the calibrations on engines are the latest to be issued. This requirement applies on July 1, 2013.

(iii) For all 2013 and later OBD engines equipped with reprogramming capability, manufacturers shall comply with either SAE J2534-1 (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section), or the Technology and Maintenance Council's (TMC) Recommended Practice TMC RP 1210B (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section).

(iv) For model years 2013 and later, manufacturers shall make available to aftermarket service providers the necessary manufacturer-specific software applications and calibrations needed to initiate pass-through reprogramming. This software shall be able to run on a standard personal computer that utilizes standard operating systems as specified in either SAE J2534-1 (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section) or TMC RP 1210B (as specified in paragraph (j)(17) of this section).

(v) Manufacturers may take any reasonable business precautions necessary to protect proprietary business information and are not required to provide this information to any party that does not agree to these reasonable business precautions. The requirements to make hardware available and to release the information to equipment and tool companies apply on July 1, 2013, and within 3 months of model introduction for all new model years.
