
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.016-1 General applicability.
####### Non-petroleum fueled vehicles.

(d)Standards and requirements apply to model year 2016 and later non-petroleum fueled motor vehicles as follows:

(1) The standards and requirements of this part apply as specified for vehicles fueled with methanol, natural gas, and LPG.

(2) The standards and requirements of subpart S of this part apply as specified for light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks.

(3) The standards and requirements of this part applicable to methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicles and engines (including flexible fuel vehicles and engines) apply to heavy-duty vehicles and engines fueled with any oxygenated fuel (including flexible fuel vehicles and engines). Most significantly, this means that the hydrocarbon standards apply as NMHCE and the vehicles and engines must be tested using the applicable oxygenated fuel according to the test procedures in 40 CFR part 1065 applicable for oxygenated fuels. For purposes of this paragraph (d), oxygenated fuel means any fuel containing at least 50 volume percent oxygenated compounds. For example, a fuel mixture of 85 gallons of ethanol and 15 gallons of gasoline is an oxygenated fuel, while a fuel mixture of 15 gallons of ethanol and 85 gallons of gasoline is not an oxygenated fuel.

(4) The standards and requirements of 40 CFR part 1037 apply for vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR that have no propulsion engine, such as electric vehicles. Electric heavy-duty vehicles may not generate PM emission credits. Electric heavy-duty vehicles may not generate NOemission credits except as allowed under 40 CFR part 1037.

(5) The standards and requirements of this part applicable to diesel-fueled heavy-duty vehicles and engines apply to all other heavy-duty vehicles and engines not otherwise addressed in this paragraph (d).

(6) See 40 CFR parts 1036 and 1037 for requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions.

(7) Manufacturers may voluntarily certify to the standards of paragraphs (d)(3) through (5) of this section before model year 2016. Note that other provisions in this part require compliance with the standards described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section for model years before 2016.
