
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.080-12 Alternative certification procedures.

(a)(1) The Administrator will determine which of the following certification procedures (paragraph (a)(3) or (a)(4) of this section) may be used to demonstrate compliance for each heavy-duty engine, light-duty vehicle, and light-duty truck engine family for which certification is sought.

(2) The families selected for the procedure described in paragraph (a)(3) of this section will be subject to this procedure at the option of the manufacturer.

(3) The following provisions apply to those heavy-duty engine, light-duty vehicle, and light-duty truck engine families which the Administrator has specified may be subject to the abbreviated certification review procedure.

(i) The manufacturer shall satisfy all applicable requirements of part 86 necessary to demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards for each class of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines for which certification is sought.

(ii) As specifically allowed by the Administrator, the manufacturer shall assume the responsibility for part or all of the decisions applicable to the family for which certification is sought and which are within the jurisdiction of the Administrator, with the exception that the Administrator will determine whether a test vehicle, or test engine, has met the applicable emission standards.

(iii) The manufacturer shall maintain, update, and correct all records and information required.

(iv) The Administrator may review a manufacturer's records at any time. At the Administrator's discretion, this review may take place either at the manufacturer's facility or at another facility designated by the Administrator.

(v) At the Administrator's request, the manufacturer shall notify the Administrator of the status of the certification program including projected schedules of those significant accomplishments specified by the Administrator.

(vi) The manufacturer shall permit the Administrator to inspect any facilities, records, and vehicles from which data are obtained under the abbreviated certification review procedure.

(vii) Upon completing all applicable requirements of part 86, the manufacturer shall submit a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each set of standards and each class of new motor vehicles or new motor vehicle engines for which certification is sought. Such application shall be made in writing to the Administrator by the manufacturer.

(A) The Administrator may approve or disapprove, in whole or in part, an application for certification according to the procedures specified in ยง 86.080-22(b).

(B) If, after a review of the application for certification, test reports and data submitted by the manufacturer, data obtained during an inspection, and any other pertinent data or information, the Administrator determines that a test vehicle(s) or test engine(s) has not met the requirements of the Act and the applicable subpart, he will notify the manufacturer in writing and set forth the reason(s) for the determination as specified in ยง 86.080-22(c).

(4) Those families which are to be subjected to the complete EPA review procedure will follow the procedures specified in this subpart with the exception of ยง 86.080-12(a)(3).

(b) The manufacturer may request that an engine family be subject to the abbreviated certification review procedure.

(c) The Administrator may require that an engine family previously allowed to be subject to the abbreviated certification review procedure be transferred to the complete review procedure.
