
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 6 - PROCEDURES FOR IMPLEMENTING THE NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT AND ASSESSING THE ENVIRONMENTAL EFFECTS ABROAD OF EPA ACTIONS
##### Subpart B - EPA's NEPA Environmental Review Procedures
###### ยง 6.207 Environmental impact statements.

(a) The Responsible Official will prepare an environmental impact statement (EIS) (see 40 CFR 1508.11) for major federal actions significantly affecting the quality of the human environment, including actions for which the EA analysis demonstrates that significant impacts will occur that will not be reduced or eliminated by changes to or mitigation of the proposed action.

(1) EISs are normally prepared for the following actions:

(i) New regional wastewater treatment facilities or water supply systems for a community with a population greater than 100,000.

(ii) Expansions of existing wastewater treatment facilities that will increase existing discharge to an impaired water by greater than 10 million gallons per day (mgd).

(iii) Issuance of new source NPDES permit for a new major industrial discharge.

(iv) Issuance of a new source NPDES permit for a new oil/gas development and production operation on the outer continental shelf.

(v) Issuance of a new source NPDES permit for a deepwater port with a projected discharge in excess of 10 mgd.

(2) The Responsible Official, or other interested party, may request changes to the list of actions that normally require the preparation of an EIS (i.e., the addition, amendment, or deletion of a type of action).

(3) A proposed action normally requires an EIS if it meets any of the following criteria. (See 40 CFR 1507.3(b)(2)).

(i) The proposed action would result in a discharge of treated effluent from a new or modified existing facility into a body of water and the discharge is likely to have a significant effect on the quality of the receiving waters.

(ii) The proposed action is likely to directly, or through induced development, have significant adverse effect upon local ambient air quality or local ambient noise levels.

(iii). The proposed action is likely to have significant adverse effects on surface water reservoirs or navigation projects.

(iv) The proposed action would be inconsistent with state or local government, or federally-recognized Indian tribe approved land use plans or regulations, or federal land management plans.

(v) The proposed action would be inconsistent with state or local government, or federally-recognized Indian tribe environmental, resource-protection, or land-use laws and regulations for protection of the environment.

(vi) The proposed action is likely to significantly affect the environment through the release of radioactive, hazardous or toxic substances, or biota.

(vii) The proposed action involves uncertain environmental effects or highly unique environmental risks that are likely to be significant.

(viii) The proposed action is likely to significantly affect national natural landmarks or any property on or eligible for the National Register of Historic Places.

(ix) The proposed action is likely to significantly affect environmentally important natural resources such as wetlands, significant agricultural lands, aquifer recharge zones, coastal zones, barrier islands, wild and scenic rivers, and significant fish or wildlife habitat.

(x) The proposed action in conjunction with related federal, state or local government, or federally-recognized Indian tribe projects is likely to produce significant cumulative impacts.

(xi) The proposed action is likely to significantly affect the pattern and type of land use (industrial, commercial, recreational, residential) or growth and distribution of population including altering the character of existing residential areas.

(4) An EIS must be prepared consistent with 40 CFR Part 1502.

(b) When appropriate, the Responsible Official will prepare a legislative EIS consistent with 40 CFR 1506.8.

(c) In preparing an EIS, the Responsible Official must determine if an applicant, other federal agencies or state or local governments, or federally-recognized Indian tribes are involved with the project and apply the applicable provisions of ยง 6.202 and Subpart C of this part.

(d) An EIS must:

(1) Comply with all requirements at 40 CFR parts 1500 through 1508.

(2) Analyze all reasonable alternatives and the no action alternative (which may be the same as denying the action). Assess the no action alternative even when the proposed action is specifically required by legislation or a court order.

(3) Describe the potentially affected environment including, as appropriate, the size and location of new and existing facilities, land requirements, operation and maintenance requirements, auxiliary structures such as pipelines or transmission lines, and construction schedules.

(4) Summarize any coordination or consultation undertaken with any federal agency, state and/or local government, and/or federally-recognized Indian tribe, including copies or summaries of relevant correspondence.

(5) Summarize any public meetings held during the scoping process including the date, time, place, and purpose of the meetings. The final EIS must summarize the public participation process including the date, time, place, and purpose of meetings or hearings held after publication of the draft EIS.

(6) Consider substantive comments received during the public participation process. The draft EIS must consider the substantive comments received during the scoping process. The final EIS must include or summarize all substantive comments received on the draft EIS, respond to any substantive comments on the draft EIS, and explain any changes to the draft EIS and the reason for the changes.

(7) Include the names and qualifications of the persons primarily responsible for preparing the EIS including an EIS prepared under a third-party contract (if applicable), significant background papers, and the EID (if applicable).

(e) The Responsible Official must prepare a supplemental EIS when appropriate, consistent with 40 CFR 1502.9.
