
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix K to Part 50 - Interpretation of the National Ambient Air Quality Standards for Particulate Matter
###### Year
####### Weighing procedure.

8.3

8.3.1 New filters should be placed in the conditioning environment immediately upon arrival and stored there until the pre-sampling weighing. See reference 2 in section 13.0 of this appendix for additional guidance.

8.3.2 The analytical balance shall be located in the same controlled environment in which the filters are conditioned. The filters shall be weighed immediately following the conditioning period without intermediate or transient exposure to other conditions or environments.

8.3.3 Filters must be conditioned at the same conditions (humidity within +/-5 relative humidity percent) before both the pre- and post-sampling weighings.

8.3.4 Both the pre- and post-sampling weighings should be carried out on the same analytical balance, using an effective technique to neutralize static charges on the filter, under reference 2 in section 13.0 of this appendix. If possible, both weighings should be carried out by the same analyst.

8.3.5 The pre-sampling (tare) weighing shall be within 30 days of the sampling period.

8.3.6 The post-sampling conditioning and weighing shall be completed within 240 hours (10 days) after the end of the sample period, unless the filter sample is maintained at temperatures below the average ambient temperature during sampling (or 4 &#xB0;C or below for average sampling temperatures less than 4 &#xB0;C) during the time between retrieval from the sampler and the start of the conditioning, in which case the period shall not exceed 30 days. Reference 2 in section 13.0 of this appendix has additional guidance on transport of cooled filters.
