
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.084-2 Definitions.
####### Useful life

means:

(a) For light-duty vehicles a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(b)(1) For a light-duty truck engine family or heavy-duty engine family, the average period of use up to engine retirement or rebuild, whichever occurs first, as determined by the manufacturer under ยง 86.084-21(b)(4)(ii)(B).

(2) For a specific light-duty truck or heavy-duty engine, the period of use represented by the first occurring of the following:

(i) The engine reaches the point of needing to be rebuilt, according to the criteria established by the manufacturer under ยง 86.084-21(b)(4)(ii)(C), or

(ii) The engine reaches its engine family's useful life.

(3) If the useful life of a specific light-duty truck or heavy-duty engine is found to be less than 5 years or 50,000 miles (or the equivalent), the useful life shall be a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles (or the equivalent), whichever occurs first, as required by section 202(d)(2) of the Act.

(4) For purpose of identification this option shall be known as the average useful-life period.

(c)(1) As an option for a light-duty truck engine family, a period of use of 12 years or 130,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(2) As an option for a gasoline heavy-duty engine family, a period of use of 10 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(3) As an option for a diesel heavy-duty engine family, a period of use of 10 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first, for engines certified for use in vehicles of less than 19,500 pounds GVWR; a period of use of 10 years or 200,000 miles, whichever occurs first, for engines certified for use in vehicles of 19,501-26,000 pounds GVWR; or, a period of use of 10 years or 275,000 miles, whichever occurs first, for engines certified for use in vehicles whose GVWR exceeds 26,000 pounds.
