
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.085-2 Definitions.
####### Primary intended service class

means:

(a) The primary service application group for which a heavy-duty diesel engine is designed and marketed, as determined by the manufacturer. The primary intended service classes are designated as light, medium, and heavy heavy-duty diesel engines. The determination is based on factors such as vehicle GVW, vehicle usage and operating patterns, other vehicle design characteristics, engine horsepower, and other engine design and operating characteristics.

(1) Light heavy-duty diesel engines usually are non-sleeved and not designed for rebuild; their rated horsepower generally ranges from 70 to 170. Vehicle body types in this group might include any heavy-duty vehicle built for a light-duty truck chassis, van trucks, multi-stop vans, recreational vehicles, and some single axle straight trucks. Typical applications would include personal transportation, light-load commercial hauling and delivery, passenger service, agriculture, and construction. The GVWR of these vehicles is normally less than 19,500 lbs.

(2) Medium heavy-duty diesel engines may be sleeved or non-sleeved and may be designed for rebuild. Rated horsepower generally ranges from 170 to 250. Vehicle body types in this group would typically include school buses, tandem axle straight trucks, city tractors, and a variety of special purpose vehicles such as small dump trucks, and trash compactor trucks. Typical applications would include commercial short haul and intra-city delivery and pickup. Engines in this group are normally used in vehicles whose GVWR varies from 19,500-33,000 lbs.

(3) Heavy heavy-duty diesel engines are sleeved and designed for multiple rebuilds. Their rated horsepower generally exceeds 250. Vehicles in this group are normally tractors, trucks, and buses used in inter-city, long-haul applications. These vehicles normally exceed 33,000 lbs GVWR.
