
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.090-2 Definitions.
####### Useful life

means:

(a) For light-duty vehicles a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(b) For a light-duty truck engine family, a period of use of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(c) For an Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine family, a period of use of 8 years of 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(d) For a diesel heavy-duty engine family:

(1) For light heavy-duty diesel engines, period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(2) For medium heavy-duty diesel engines, a period of use of 8 years or 185,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(3) For heavy heavy-duty diesel engines, a period of use of 8 years or 290,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(e) As an option for both light-duty truck and heavy-duty engine families, an alternative useful life period assigned by the Administrator under the provisions of paragraph (f) of ยง 86.090-21.

(f) The useful-life period for purposes of the emissions defect warranty and emissions performance warranty shall be a period of 5 years/50,000 miles whichever first occurs, for light-duty trucks, Otto cycle heavy-duty engines and light heavy-duty diesel engines. For all other heavy-duty diesel engines the aforementioned period is 5 years/100,000 miles, whichever first occurs. However, in no case may this period be less than the manufacturer's basic mechanical warranty period for the engine family.
