
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.091-7 Maintenance of records; submittal of information; right of entry.
####### Provided,

(b) The manufacturer of any new motor vehicle (or new motor vehicle engine) subject to any of the standards prescribed in this subpart shall submit to the Administrator at the time of issuance by the manufacturer copies of all instructions or explanations regarding the use, repair, adjustment, maintenance, or testing of such vehicle (or engine) relevant to the control of crankcase, exhaust or evaporative emissions, as applicable, issued by the manufacturer for use by other manufacturers, assembly plants, distributors, dealers, and ultimate purchasers,That any material not translated into the English language need not be submitted unless specifically requested by the Administrator.

(c)(1) The manufacturer (or contractor for the manufacturer, if applicable) of any new vehicle or engine that is certified under averaging, trading, or banking programs (as applicable) shall establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed records for each such vehicle or heavy-duty engine produced:

(i) EPA engine family.

(ii) Vehicle (or engine) identification number.

(iii) Vehicle (or engine) model year and build date.

(iv) BHP rating (heavy-duty engines only).

(v) Purchaser and destination.

(vi) Assembly plant.

(2) The manufacturer (or contractor for the manufacturer, if applicable) of any new vehicle or engine family that is certified under averaging, trading, or banking programs (as applicable) shall establish, maintain, and retain the following adequately organized and indexed records for each such family:

(i) EPA engine family.

(ii) FEL.

(iii) BHP conversion factor and the transient test BHP for each configuration tested (heavy-duty engines only).

(iv) Useful life.

(v) Projected U.S. production volume for the model year.

(vi) Actual U.S. production volume for the model year.

(3) [Reserved]

(4) Nothing in this section limits the Administrator's discretion in requiring the manufacturer to retain additional records or submit information not specifically required by this section.

(5) Pursuant to a request made by the Administrator, the manufacturer shall submit to him the information that is required to be retained.
