
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.091-29 Testing by the Administrator.
####### 2

() The engine will be retested by the Administrator and the results of this test shall comprise the official data for the emission-data engine.

(iv) If sufficient durability data are not available at the time of any emission test conducted under paragraph (b)(2) of this section to enable the Administrator to determine whether an emission-data engine would fail, the manufacturer may request a retest in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(B) (1) and (2) of this section. If the manufacturer does not promptly make such request, he shall be deemed to have waived the right to a retest. A request for retest must be made before the manufacturer removes the engine from the test premises.

(c)(1) Paragraph (c) of this section applies to gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicles.

(2) The Administrator may require that any one or more of the evaporative emission family-system combinations included in the manufacturer's statement(s) of compliance be installed on an appropriate vehicle and such vehicle be submitted to him, at such place or places as he may designate, for the purpose of conducting emissions tests. The Administrator may specify that he will conduct such testing at the manufacturer's facility, in which case instrumentation and equipment specified by the Administrator shall be made available by the manufacturer for test operations. Any testing conducted at a manufacturer's facility pursuant to this paragraph shall be scheduled by the manufacturer as promptly as possible.

(3)(i) Whenever the Administrator conducts a test segment on an evaporative emission family-system combination, the results of that test segment, unless subsequently invalidated by the Administrator, shall comprise the official data for that test segment for the evaporative emission family-system combination, and the manufacturer's data, analyses, etc., for that test segment shall not be used in determining compliance with emission standards. The Administrator may stop a test after any evaporative test segment and use as official data any valid results obtained up to that point in the test, as described in subpart B of this part.
