
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.094-2 Definitions.
####### Useful life

means:

(a) For light-duty vehicles, and for model year 1994 and later light light-duty trucks not subject to the Tier 0 standards of paragraph (a) of § 86.094-9, intermediate useful life and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first, except as otherwise noted in § 86.094-9.

(b) For light light-duty trucks subject to the Tier 0 standards of paragraph (a) of § 86.094-9, and for heavy light-duty truck engine families, intermediate and/or full useful life. Intermediate useful life is a period of use of 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first. Full useful life is a period of use of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(c) For an Otto-cycle heavy-duty engine family, a period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(d) For a diesel heavy-duty engine family:

(1) For light heavy-duty diesel engines, period of use of 8 years or 110,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(2) For medium heavy-duty diesel engines, a period of use of 8 years or 185,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(3) For heavy-duty diesel engines, a period of use of 8 years or 290,000 miles, whichever first occurs, except as provided in paragraph (d)(4) of this definition.

(4) for heavy heavy-duty diesel engines used in urban buses, for the particulate standard, a period of use of 10 years or 290,000 miles, whichever first occurs.

(e) As an option for both light-duty trucks under certain conditions and heavy-duty engine families, an alternative useful life period assigned by the Administrator under the provisions of paragraph (f) of § 86.094-21.

(f) The useful-life period for purposes of the emissions defect warranty and emissions performance warranty shall be a period of 5 years/50,000 miles, whichever first occurs, for light-duty trucks, Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and light heavy-duty diesel engines. For all other heavy-duty diesel engines the aforementioned period is 5 years/100,000 miles, whichever first occurs. However, in no case may this period be less than the manufacturer's basic mechanical warranty period for the engine family.
