
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.094-7 Maintenance of records; submittal of information; right of entry.

(a) Introductory text through (a)(2) [Reserved]

(a)(3) All records, other than routine emission test records, required to be maintained under this subpart shall be retained by the manufacturer for a period of eight (8) years after issuance of all certificates of conformity to which they relate. Routine emission test records shall be retained by the manufacturer for a period of one (1) year after issuance of all certificates of conformity to which they relate. Records may be retained as hard copy or reduced to microfilm, punch cards, etc., depending on the record retention procedures of the manufacturer, provided, that in every case all the information contained in the hard copy shall be retained.

(b)-(c)(2) [Reserved]

(c)(3) The manufacturer (or contractor for the manufacturer, if applicable) shall retain all records required to be maintained under this section for a period of eight (8) years from the due date for the end-of-model year averaging, trading, and banking reports. Records may be retained as hard copy or reduced to microfilm, ADP files, etc., depending on the manufacturer's record retention procedure, provided that in every case all the information contained in the hard copy is retained.

(c)(4)-(d)(1)(v) [Reserved]

(d)(1)(vi) Any facility where any record or other document relating to the information specified in paragraph (h) of this section is located.

(2) Upon admission to any facility referred to in paragraph (d)(1) of this section, any EPA Enforcement Officer or any EPA authorized representative shall be allowed:

(i) To inspect and monitor any part or aspect of such procedures, activities, and testing facilities, including, but not limited to, monitoring vehicle (or engine) preconditioning, emissions tests and mileage (or service) accumulation, maintenance, and vehicle soak and storage procedures (or engine storage procedures), and to verify correlation or calibration of test equipment;

(ii) To inspect and make copies of any such records, designs, or other documents, including those records specified in ยง 86.091-7(c); and

(iii) To inspect and make copies of any such records, designs or other documents including those records specified in paragraph (h) of this section; and

(iv) To inspect and/or photograph any part or aspect of any such certification vehicle (or certification engine) and any components to be used in the construction thereof.

(d)(3)-(g) [Reserved]

(h)(1) [Reserved]

(2) In addition, the manufacturer (or contractor for the manufacturer, if applicable) of each certified engine family shall establish, maintain, and retain adequately organized records of the actual U.S. sales volume for the model year for each engine family. The manufacturer may petition the Administrator to allow actual volume produced for U.S. sale to be used in lieu of actual U.S. sales. Such petition shall be submitted within 30 days of the end of the model year to the Manufacturer Operations Division. For the petition to be granted, the manufacturer must establish to the satisfaction of the Administrator that actual production volume is functionally equivalent to actual sales volume.

(3) The manufacturer (or contractor for the manufacturer, if applicable) shall retain all records required to be maintained under this section for a period of eight (8) years from the due date for the applicable end-of-model year report. Records may be retained as hard copy or reduced to microfilm, ADP film, etc., depending on the manufacturer's record retention procedure, provided that in every case all the information contained in the hard copy is retained.

(4) Nothing in this section limits the Administrator's discretion in requiring the manufacturer to retain additional records or submit information not specifically required by this section.

(5) Pursuant to a request made by the Administrator, the manufacturer shall submit to him the information that is required to be retained.

(6) EPA may void ab initio a certificate for a vehicle certified to Tier 1 certification standards or to the respective evaporative and/or refueling test procedure and accompanying evaporative and/or refueling standards as set forth or otherwise referenced in ยง 86.098-10 for which the manufacturer fails to retain the records required in this section or to provide such information to the Administrator upon request.
