
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.094-14 Small-volume manufacturer certification procedures.

(a)(1) The small-volume manufacturer certification procedures described in paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section are optional. Small-volume manufacturers may use these optional procedures to demonstrate compliance with the general standards and specific emission requirements contained in this subpart.

(2) To satisfy the durability data requirements of the small-volume manufacturer certification procedures, manufacturers of vehicles (or engines) as described in paragraph (b) of this section may use assigned deterioration factors that the Administrator determines by methods described in paragraph (c)(3)(ii) of this section. However, if no deterioration factor data (either the manufacturer's or industry-wide deterioration factor data) are available from previously completed durability data vehicles or engines used for certification, manufacturers of vehicles (or engines) as described in paragraph (b) of this section or with new technology not previously certified may use assigned deterioration factors that the Administrator determines by alternative methods, based on good engineering judgment. The factors that the Administrator determines by alternative methods will be published in an advisory letter or advisory circular.

(b)(1) The optional small-volume manufacturer certification procedures apply to heavy-duty vehicles, and heavy-duty engines produced by manufacturers with U.S. sales, including all vehicles and engines imported under the provisions of §§ 85.1505 and 85.1509 of this chapter (for the model year in which certification is sought) of fewer than 10,000 units (Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, Heavy-Duty Vehicles and Heavy-Duty Engines combined).

(2) For the purpose of determining the applicability of paragraph (b)(1) of this section, the sales the Administrator shall use shall be the aggregate of the projected or actual sales of those vehicles and/or engines in any of these groupings:

(i) Vehicles and/or engines produced by two or more firms, one of which is 10 percent or greater part owned by another;

(ii) Vehicles and/or engines produced by any two or more firms if a third party has equity ownership of 10 percent or more in each of the firms;

(iii) Vehicles and/or engines produced by two or more firms having a common corporate officer(s) who is (are) responsible for the overall direction of the companies;

(iv) Vehicles and/or engines imported or distributed by all firms where the vehicles and/or engines are manufactured by the same entity and the importer or distributor is an authorized agent of the entity.

(3) If the aggregated sales, as determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are less than 301 units, the manufacturers in the aggregated relationship may certify under the provisions in this section that apply to manufacturers with sales of less than 301 units.

(4) If the aggregated sales, as determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are greater than 300 but fewer than 10,000 units, the manufacturers in the aggregated relationship may certify under the provisions in this section that apply to manufacturers with sales from and including 301 through 9,999 motor vehicles and motor vehicles engines per year.

(5) If the aggregated sales, as determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section are equal to or greater than 10,000 units, then the manufacturers involved in the aggregated relationship will be allowed to certify a number of units under the small-volume engine family certification procedures (reference § 86.001-24(e)) in accordance with the following criteria:

(i) If a manufacturer purchases less than 50 percent of another manufacturer, each manufacturer retains its right to certify 9,999 units using the small-volume engine family certification procedures.

(ii) If a manufacturer purchases 50 percent or more of another manufacturer, the manufacturer with the over 50 percent interest must share, with the manufacturer it purchased, its 9,999 units under the small-volume engine family certification procedures.

(iii) In a joint venture arrangement (50/50 ownership) between two manufacturers, each manufacturer retains its eligibility for 9,999 units under the small-volume engine family certification procedures, but the joint venture must draw its maximum 9,999 units from the units allocated to its parent manufacturers.

(c) All the provisions of this subpart apply to small-volume manufacturers, except as described in this paragraph (c). The appropriate model year of specific sections shall be determined in accordance with § 86.084-4.

(1) Section 86.080-12 is not applicable.

(2) Small-volume manufacturers shall include in their records all the information that EPA requires in § 86.007-21. This information will be considered part of the manufacturer's application for certification. However, the manufacturer is not required to submit the information to the Administrator unless the Administrator requests it.

(3) Small-volume manufacturers may satisfy the requirements of § 86.001-24(b) and (c) as follows:
