
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.094-14 Small-volume manufacturer certification procedures.
####### 2,e.g.,,i.e.,

() The manufacturer's minimum deterioration factors shall be calculated using the deterioration factors from all engine families, within the same vehicle/engine-fuel usage category (gasoline-fueled light-duty vehicle, etc.) previously certified to the same emission standards. The manufacturer shall use only deterioration factors from engine families previously certified by the manufacturer and the deterioration factors shall not be included in the calculation more than once. The deterioration factors for each pollutant shall be calculated separately. The manufacturer may, at its option, limit the deterioration factors used in the calculation of the manufacturer's minimum deterioration factors to those from all similar systems to the system being certified if sufficient data (from at least two certified systems) exists. All data eligible to be grouped as similar system data shall be used in calculating similar system deterioration factors. Any deterioration factors used in calculating similar system deterioration factors shall not be included in calculating the manufacturer's minimum deterioration factors used to certify any of the manufacturer's remaining vehicle systems.

(C) Manufacturers with aggregated sales from 301 through 9,999 motor vehicles and motor vehicle engines and certifying light-duty vehicle exhaust emissions from vehicles equipped with unproven emission control systems shall use deterioration factors that the manufacturer determines from official certification durability data generated by vehicles from engine families representing a minimum of 25 percent of the manufacturer's sales equipped with unproven emission control systems. The sales projections are to be based on total sales projected for each engine/system combination. The durability programs applicable to such manufacturers for this purpose shall be the Standard AMA, the Production AMA and the Alternative Service Accumulation Durability Programs of § 86.094-13. The durability data vehicle (engine) mileage accumulation and emission tests are to be conducted in accordance with § 86.094-13. The manufacturer must develop deterioration factors by generating durability data in accordance with § 86.094-13 on a minimum of 25 percent of the manufacturer's projected sales (by engine/system combination) that is equipped with unproven emission control systems. The manufacturer must complete the 25 percent durability requirement before the remainder of the manufacturer's sales equipped with unproven emission control systems is certified using manufacturer-determined assigned deterioration factors. Alternatively, any of these manufacturers may, at their option, accumulate miles on durability data vehicles and complete emission tests for the purpose of establishing their own deterioration factors on the remaining sales.

(4) Section 86.001-24(d) and (e) are not applicable.

(5) Small-volume manufacturers shall comply with the following provisions instead of § 86.007-30(a)(2) and (b):

(i) Small-volume manufacturers shall submit an application for certification containing the following elements:

(A) The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the persons the manufacturer authorizes to communicate with us.

(B) A brief description of the vehicles (or engines) covered by the certificate (the manufacturers' sales data book or advertising, including specifications, may satisfy this requirement for most manufacturers). The description shall include, as a minimum, the following items:
