
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.094-14 Small-volume manufacturer certification procedures.
####### 7

() A statement affirming that the manufacturer will provide a list of emission and emission-related service parts, including part number designations and sources of parts, to the vehicle purchaser for all emission and emission-related parts which might affect vehicle emission performance throughout the useful life of the vehicle. Secondly, it must state that qualified service facilities and emission-related repair parts will be conveniently available to serve its vehicles. In addition, if service facilities are not available at the point of sale or distribution, the manufacturer must indicate that the vehicle purchaser will be provided information identifying the closest authorized service facility to the point of sale, if in the United States, or the closest authorized service facility to the point of distribution to the ultimate purchaser if the vehicle was purchased outside of the United States by the ultimate purchaser. Such information should also be made available to the Administrator upon request.

(E) Manufacturers utilizing deterioration factors determined by the manufacturer based on its good engineering judgment (reference paragraph (c)(3)(ii)(B) of this section) shall provide a description of the method(s) used by the manufacturer to determine the deterioration factors.

(ii) If the manufacturer meets the requirements of this subpart, the Administrator will issue a certificate of conformity for the vehicles or engines described in the application for certification.

(iii) The certificate will be issued for such a period not to exceed one model year as the Administrator may determine and upon such terms as he may deem necessary to assure that any vehicle or engine covered by the certificate will meet the requirements of the Act and of this subpart.

(iv) If, after a review of the statements and descriptions submitted by the manufacturer, the Administrator determines that the manufacturer has not met the applicable requirements, the Administrator shall notify the manufacturer in writing of his intention to deny certification, setting forth the basis for his determination. The manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's determination. If the manufacturer does not request a hearing or present the required information, the Administrator will deny certification.

(6) Sections 86.079-31 and 86.079-32 are not applicable.

(7) The following provisions apply for small-volume manufacturers instead of the provisions specified in ยง 86.079-33:

(i) Small-volume manufacturers may make production changes (running changes) without receiving the Administrator's prior approval. The manufacturer shall assure (by conducting emission tests as it deems necessary) that the affected vehicles (engines) remain in compliance with the requirements of this part.

(ii) The manufacturer shall notify the Administrator within seven days after implementing any production related change (running change) that would affect vehicle emissions. This notification shall include any changes to the information required under paragraph (c)(5)(i) of this section. The manufacturer shall also amend as necessary its records required under paragraph (c)(2) of this section to confirm the production design change.

(8) Section 86.082-34 is not applicable.
