
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.094-22 Approval of application for certification; test fleet selections; determinations of parameters subject to adjustment for certification and Selective Enforcement Audit, adequacy of limits, and physically adjustable ranges.
####### Disapproval of application.

(b)(1) The Administrator may disapprove in whole or in part an application for certification for reasons including incompleteness, inaccuracy, inappropriate proposed mileage (or service) accumulation procedures, test equipment, or fuel; or incorporation of defeat devices in vehicles (or on engines) described by the application.

(2) The issuance of a certificate of conformity does not exempt the covered vehicles from further evaluation or testing for defeat device purposes as described in ยง 86.094-16.

(c) Where any part of an application is rejected, the Administrator shall notify the manufacturer in writing and set forth the reasons for such rejection. Within 30 days following receipt of such notification, the manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's determination. The request shall be in writing, signed by an authorized representative of the manufacturer and shall include a statement specifying the manufacturer's objections to the Administrator's determinations, and data in support of such objections. If, after the review of the request and supporting data, the Administrator finds that the request raises a substantial factual issue, he shall provide the manufacturer a hearing in accordance with ยง 86.078-6 with respect to such issue.
