
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.095-35 Labeling.
####### Heavy-duty engines.

(3)(i) A permanent legible label shall be affixed to the engine in a position in which it will be readily visible after installation in the vehicle.

(ii) The label shall be attached to an engine part necessary for normal engine operation and not normally requiring replacement during engine life.

(iii) The label shall contain the following information lettered in the English language in block letters and numerals which shall be of a color that contrasts with the background of the label:

(A) The label heading: "Important Engine Information.";

(B) The full corporate name and trademark of the manufacturer; though the label may identify another company and use its trademark instead of the manufacturer's as long as the manufacturer complies with the branding provisions of 40 CFR 1068.45.

(C) Engine displacement (in cubic inches or liters) and engine family and model designations;

(D) Date of engine manufacture (month and year). The manufacturer may, in lieu of including the date of manufacture on the engine label, maintain a record of the engine manufacture dates. The manufacturer shall provide the date of manufacture records to the Administrator upon request;

(E) Engine specifications and adjustments as recommended by the manufacturer. These specifications should indicate the proper transmission position during tune-up and what accessories (e.g., air conditioner), if any, should be in operation;

(F) For Otto-cycle engines the label should include the idle speed, ignition timing, and the idle air-fuel mixture setting procedure and value (e.g., idle CO, idle air-fuel ratio, idle speed drop), and valve lash;

(G) For diesel engines the label should include the advertised hp at rpm, fuel rate at advertised hp in mm/stroke, valve lash, initial injection timing, and idle speed;

(H) The prominent statement: "This engine conforms to U.S. EPA regulations applicable to XXXX Model Year New Heavy-Duty Engines.";
