
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.095-35 Labeling.
####### Heavy-duty vehicles employing a fuel or fuels covered by evaporative emission standards.

(4)This paragraph (a)(4) applies for vehicles subject to evaporative emission standards under this subpart, as described in ยง 86.016-1(a)(4). See 40 CFR part 1037 for provisions that apply in later model years.

(i) A permanent, legible label shall be affixed in a readily visible position in the engine compartment. If such vehicles do not have an engine compartment, the label required in this paragraph (a)(4) shall be affixed in a readily available position on the operator's enclosure or on the engine.

(ii) The label shall be affixed by the vehicle manufacturer who has been issued the Certificate of Conformity for such vehicle, in such a manner that it cannot be removed without destroying or defacing the label. The label shall not be affixed to any equipment which is easily detached from such vehicle.

(iii) The label shall contain the following information lettered in the English language in block letters and numerals, which shall be of a color that contrasts with the background of the label:

(A) The label heading: Vehicle Emission Control Information;

(B) Full corporate name and trademark of manufacturer;

(C) Evaporative family identification;

(D) The maximum nominal fuel tank capacity (in gallons), as specified in 40 CFR 1037.135; and

(E) An unconditional statement of compliance with the appropriate model year U.S. Environmental Protection Agency regulations which apply to XXX-fueled heavy-duty vehicles.

(F) Vehicles granted final admission under ยง 85.1505 of this chapter must comply with the labeling requirements contained in ยง 85.1510 of this chapter.

(b) The provisions of this section shall not prevent a manufacturer from also reciting on the label that such vehicle (or engine) conforms to any applicable state emission standards for new motor vehicles (or new motor vehicle engines) or any other information that such manufacturer deems necessary for, or useful to, the proper operation and satisfactory maintenance of the vehicle (or engine).

(c) Vehicles powered by model year 2007 through 2013 diesel-fueled engines must include permanent, readily visible labels on the dashboard (or instrument panel) and near all fuel inlets that state "Use Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel Only"; or "Ultra Low Sulfur Diesel Fuel Only".

(d)-(g) [Reserved]
