
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.094-25 Maintenance.

(a) [Reserved]

(b) This section specifies emission-related scheduled maintenance for purposes of obtaining durability data and for inclusion in maintenance instructions furnished to purchasers of new motor vehicles and new motor vehicles engines under ยง 86.087-38.

(1) All emission-related scheduled maintenance for purposes of obtaining durability data must occur at the same mileage intervals (or equivalent intervals if engines, subsystems, or components are used) that will be specified in the manufacturer's maintenance instructions furnished to the ultimate purchaser of the motor vehicle or engine under ยง 86.094-35. This maintenance schedule may be updated as necessary throughout the testing of the vehicle/engine, provided that no maintenance operation is deleted from the maintenance schedule after the operation has been performed on the test vehicle or engine.

(2) Any emission-related maintenance which is performed on vehicles, engines, subsystems, or components must be technologically necessary to assure in-use compliance with the emission standards. The manufacturer must submit data which demonstrate to the Administrator that all of the emission-related scheduled maintenance which is to be performed is technologically necessary. Scheduled maintenance must be approved by the Administrator prior to being performed or being included in the maintenance instructions provided to purchasers under ยง 86.010-38.

(3) For Otto-cycle light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and heavy duty engines, emission-related maintenance in addition to, or at shorter intervals than, that listed in paragraphs (b)(3) (i) through (vii) of this section will not be accepted as technologically necessary, except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(i)(A) [Reserved]

(B) The cleaning or replacement of Otto-cycle heavy duty engine spark plugs shall occur at 25,000 miles (or 750 hours) of use and at 25,000-mile (or 750-hour) intervals thereafter, for engines certified for use with unleaded fuel only.

(ii) [Reserved]

(4)-(6) [Reserved]
