
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.096-24 Test vehicles and engines.
####### General.

(a)This paragraph applies to the grouping of vehicles or engines into families.

(1) The vehicles or engines covered by an application for certification will be divided into groupings of engines which are expected to have similar emission characteristics throughout their useful life. Each group of engines with similar emission characteristics is defined as a separate engine family.

(2) To be classed in the same engine family, engines must be identical in all the respects listed in paragraphs (a)(2) (i) through (x) of this section.

(i) The cylinder bore center-to-center dimensions.

(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) The cylinder block configuration (air-cooled or water-cooled: L-6, 90 deg., V-8, and so forth).

(v) The location of the intake and exhaust valves (or ports).

(vi) The method of air aspiration.

(vii) The combustion cycle.

(viii) Catalytic converter characteristics.

(ix) Thermal reactor characteristics.

(x) Type of air inlet cooler (for example, intercoolers and after-coolers) for diesel heavy-duty engines.

(3)(i) Engines identical in all the respects listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section may be further divided into different engine families if the Administrator determines that they may be expected to have different emission characteristics. This determination will be based upon a consideration of the features of each engine listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) (A) through (G) of this section.

(A) The bore and stroke.

(B) The surface-to-volume ratio of the nominally dimensioned cylinder at the top dead center positions.

(C) The intake manifold induction port sizes and configuration.

(D) The exhaust manifold port size and configuration.

(E) The intake and exhaust valve sizes.

(F) The fuel system.

(G) The camshaft timing and ignition or injection timing characteristics.

(ii) Light-duty trucks and heavy-duty engines produced in different model years and distinguishable in the respects listed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section are treated as belonging to a single engine family if the Administrator requires it, after determining that the engines may be expected to have similar emission deterioration characteristics.

(4) Where engines are of a type which cannot be divided into engine families based upon the criteria listed in paragraphs (a)(2) and (3) of this section, the Administrator establishes families for those engines based upon those features most related to their emission characteristics. Engines that are eligible to be included in the same engine family based on the criteria in paragraphs (a)(2) and (a)(3)(i) of this section may be further divided into different engine families if the manufacturer determines that they may be expected to have different emission characteristics. This determination will be based upon a consideration of the features of each engine listed in paragraphs (a)(4) (i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The dimension from the center line of the crankshaft to the center line of the camshaft.

(ii) The dimension from the center line of the crankshaft to the top of the cylinder block head face.

(iii) The size of the intake and exhaust valves (or ports).

(5)-(11) [Reserved]

(12) Those vehicles covered by an application for certification which are equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled heavy-duty engines will be divided into groupings of vehicles on the basis of physical features which are expected to affect evaporative emissions. Each group of vehicles with similar features must be defined as a separate evaporative emission family.

(13) For gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicles to be classified in the same evaporative emission family, vehicles must be identical with respect to the items listed in paragraphs (a)(13) (i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Method of fuel/air metering (that is, carburetion versus fuel injection).

(ii) Carburetor bowl fuel volume, within a 10 cc range.

(14) For vehicles equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled heavy-duty engines to be classified in the same evaporative emission control system, vehicles must be identical with respect to the items listed in paragraphs (a)(14) (i) through (ix) of this section.

(i) Method of vapor storage.

(ii)-(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) Vapor storage working capacity, within a 20g range.

(v) Number of storage devices.

(vi) Method of purging stored vapors.

(vii) [Reserved]

(viii) Liquid fuel hose material.

(ix) Vapor storage material.

(15) Where vehicles equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled heavy-duty engines are types which cannot be divided into evaporative emission family-control system combinations based on the criteria listed above, the Administrator establishes evaporative emission family-control system combinations for those vehicles based on features most related to their evaporative emission characteristics.
