
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.096-24 Test vehicles and engines.
####### Otto-cycle heavy-duty emission data engines.

(2)This paragraph applies to Otto-cycle heavy-duty emission data engines.

(i)-(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) The Administrator selects a maximum of two engines within each engine family based upon features indicating that they may have the highest emission levels of the engines in the engine family in accordance with the criteria described in paragraphs (b)(2)(iii) (A) and (B) of this section.

(A) The Administrator selects one emission data engine first based on the largest displacement within the engine family. Then from those within the largest displacement the Administrator selects, in the order listed, the engine with the highest fuel flow at the speed of maximum rated torque, with the most advanced spark timing, with no EGR or lowest EGR flow, and with no air pump or with the lowest actual flow air pump.

(B) The Administrator selects one additional engine from within each engine family. The engine selected is the engine expected to exhibit the highest emissions of those engines remaining in the engine family. If all engines within the engine family are similar, the Administrator may waive the requirements of this paragraph.

(iv) If the engines selected in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section do not represent each engine displacement-exhaust emission control system combination, then the Administrator selects one engine of each engine displacement-exhaust emission control system combination not represented.

(v) Within an engine family/displacement/control system combination, the manufacturer may alter any emission data engine (or other engine including current or previous model year emission data engines and development engines provided they meet the emission data engines' protocol) to represent more than one selection under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.
