
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.096-24 Test vehicles and engines.
####### Diesel heavy-duty emission data engines.

(3)This paragraph applies to diesel-cycle heavy-duty emission data engines.

(i) Engines will be chosen to be run for emission data based upon engine family groupings. Within each engine family, the requirements of paragraphs (b)(3) (i) through (iv) of this section must be met.

(ii) Engines of each engine family will be divided into groups based upon their exhaust emission control systems. One engine of each engine system combination must be run for smoke emission data and gaseous emission data. Either the complete gaseous emission test or the complete smoke test may be conducted first. Within each combination, the engine that features the highest fuel feed per stroke, primarily at the speed of maximum rated torque and secondarily at rated speed, will usually be selected. If there are military engines with higher fuel rates than other engines in the same engine system combinations, then one military engine is also selected. The engine with the highest fuel feed per stroke is usually the one selected.

(iii) The Administrator may select a maximum of one additional engine within each engine-system combination based upon features indicating that it may have the highest emission levels of the engines of that combination. In selecting this engine, the Administrator will consider such features as the injection system, fuel system, compression ratio, rated speed, rated horsepower, peak torque speed, and peak torque.

(iv) Within an engine family control system combination, the manufacturer may alter any emission data engine (or other engine including current or previous model year emission data engines and development engines provided they meet the emission data engines' protocol) to represent more than one selection under paragraphs (b)(3) (ii) and (iii) of this section.
