
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.098-23 Required data.
####### Durability data.

(b)(1)(i) [Reserved]

(ii) The manufacturer shall submit exhaust emission deterioration factors for light-duty trucks and HDEs and all test data that are derived from the testing described under § 86.094-21(b)(5)(i)(A), as well as a record of all pertinent maintenance. Such testing shall be designed and conducted in accordance with good engineering practice to assure that the engines covered by a certificate issued under § 86.098-30 will meet each emission standard (or family emission limit, as appropriate) in § 86.094-9, § 86.098-10, § 86.098-11 or superseding emissions standards sections as appropriate, in actual use for the useful life applicable to that standard.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) For heavy-duty vehicles equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled engines, the manufacturer shall submit evaporative emission deterioration factors for each evaporative emission family-evaporative emission control system combination identified in accordance with § 86.094-21(b)(4)(ii). Furthermore, a statement that the test procedure(s) used to derive the deterioration factors includes, but need not be limited to, a consideration of the ambient effects of ozone and temperature fluctuations, and the service accumulation effects of vibration, time, and vapor saturation and purge cycling. The deterioration factor test procedure shall be designed and conducted in accordance with good engineering practice to assure that the vehicles covered by a certificate issued under § 86.098-30 will meet the evaporative emission standards in §§ 86.096-10 and 86.098-11 or superseding emissions standards sections as applicable in actual use for the useful life of the engine. Furthermore, a statement that a description of the test procedure, as well as all data, analyses, and evaluations, is available to the Administrator upon request.

(4)(i) For heavy-duty vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 26,000 lbs and equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled engines, the manufacturer shall submit a written statement to the Administrator certifying that the manufacturer's vehicles meet the standards of § 86.098-10 or § 86.098-11 or superseding emissions standards sections as applicable as determined by the provisions of § 86.098-28. Furthermore, the manufacturer shall submit a written statement to the Administrator that all data, analyses, test procedures, evaluations, and other documents, on which the requested statement is based, are available to the Administrator upon request.

(ii) For heavy-duty vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of greater than 26,000 lbs and equipped with gasoline-fueled or methanol-fueled engines, the manufacturer shall submit a written statement to the Administrator certifying that the manufacturer's evaporative emission control systems are designed, using good engineering practice, to meet the standards of § 86.096-10 or § 86.098-11 or superseding emissions standards sections as applicable as determined by the provisions of § 86.098-28. Furthermore, the manufacturer shall submit a written statement to the Administrator that all data, analyses, test procedures, evaluations, and other documents, on which the requested statement is based, are available to the Administrator upon request.

(iii) For petroleum-fueled diesel-cycle vehicles certifying under the waiver provisions of § 86.098-28, the certifications and representations specified in § 86.098-28.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) The manufacturer shall submit a statement that the vehicles (or engines) for which certification is requested conform to the requirements in § 86.090-5(b), and that the descriptions of tests performed to ascertain compliance with the general standards in § 86.090-5(b), and that the data derived from such tests, are available to the Administrator upon request.

(e)(1) The manufacturer shall submit a statement that the test vehicles (or test engines) for which data are submitted to demonstrate compliance with the applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate) of this subpart are in all material respects as described in the manufacturer's application for certification, that they have been tested in accordance with the applicable test procedures utilizing the fuels and equipment described in the application for certification, and that on the basis of such tests the vehicles (or engines) conform to the requirements of this part. If such statements cannot be made with respect to any vehicle (or engine) tested, the vehicle (or engine) shall be identified, and all pertinent data relating thereto shall be supplied to the Administrator. If, on the basis of the data supplied and any additional data as required by the Administrator, the Administrator determines that the test vehicles (or test engine) were not as described in the application for certification or were not tested in accordance with the applicable test procedures utilizing the fuels and equipment as described in the application for certification, the Administrator may make the determination that the vehicle (or engine) does not meet the applicable standards (or family emission limits, as appropriate). The provisions of § 86.098-30(b) shall then be followed.

(2)-(3) [Reserved

(f)-(g) [Reserved]

(h) Additionally, manufacturers participating in any of the emissions ABT programs under § 86.098-15 or superseding ABT sections for HDEs shall submit for each participating family the items listed in paragraphs (h) (1) through (3) of this section.
