
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.098-23 Required data.
####### End-of-year report.

(3)The manufacturer shall submit end-of-year reports for each engine family participating in any of the ABT programs, as described in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) These reports shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the model year to: Director, Engine Programs and Compliance Division (6405J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(ii) These reports shall indicate the engine family, the averaging set, the actual U.S. (49-state or 50-state, as applicable) production volume, the values required to calculate credits as given in the applicable ABT section, the resulting type and number of credits generated/required, and the NCPs in use on a similar NCP family. Manufacturers shall also submit how and where credit surpluses were dispersed (or are to be banked) and how and through what means credit deficits were met. Copies of contracts related to credit trading must also be included or supplied by the broker if applicable. The report shall also include a calculation of credit balances to show that net mass emissions balances are within those allowed by the emission standards (equal to or greater than a zero credit balance). Any credit discount factor described in the applicable ABT section must be included as required.

(iii) The production counts for end-of-year reports shall be based on the location of the first point of retail sale (e.g., customer, dealer, secondary manufacturer) by the manufacturer.

(iv) Errors discovered by EPA or the manufacturer in the end-of-year report, including changes in the production counts, may be corrected up to 180 days subsequent to submission of the end-of-year report. Errors discovered by EPA after 180 days shall be corrected if credits are reduced. Errors in the manufacturer's favor will not be corrected if discovered after the 180 day correction period allowed.

(i) Failure by a manufacturer participating in the ABT programs to submit any quarterly or end-of-year report (as applicable) in the specified time for all vehicles and engines that are part of an averaging set is a violation of section 203(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7522(a)(1)) for each such vehicle and engine.

(j) Failure by a manufacturer generating credits for deposit only in the HDE banking programs to submit their end-of-year reports in the applicable specified time period (i.e., 90 days after the end of the model year) shall result in the credits not being available for use until such reports are received and reviewed by EPA. Use of projected credits pending EPA review will not be permitted in these circumstances.

(k) Engine families certified using NCPs are not required to meet the requirements outlined in paragraphs (f) through (j) of this section.

(l) [Reserved]

(m) Additionally, except for small-volume manufacturers, manufacturers certifying vehicles shall submit for each model year 1998 light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, and gasoline- and methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicle evaporative family:

(1) In the application for certification the projected sales volume of evaporative families certifying to the respective evaporative test procedure and accompanying standards as set forth or otherwise referenced in §§ 86.090-8, 86.090-9, 86.091-10 and 86.094-11 or as set forth or otherwise referenced in §§ 86.096-8, 86.096-9, 86.096-10 and 86.098-11 or as set forth or otherwise referenced in superseding emissions standards sections. Volume projected to be produced for U.S. sale may be used in lieu of projected U.S. sales.

(2) End-of-year reports for each evaporative family.

(i) These end-of-year reports shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the model year to: For heavy-duty engines-Director, Engine Programs and Compliance Divisions (6403J), For vehicles-Director, Vehicle Compliance and Programs Division (6405J), U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460.

(ii) These reports shall indicate the model year, evaporative family and the actual U.S. sales volume. The manufacturer may petition the Administrator to allow volume produced for U.S. sale to be used in lieu of U.S. sales. Such petition shall be submitted within 30 days of the end of the model year to the Manufacturers Operations Division. For the petition to be granted, the manufacturer must establish to the satisfaction of the Administrator that production volume is functionally equivalent to sales volume.

(iii) The U.S. sales volume for end-of-year reports shall be based on the location of the point of sale to a dealer, distributor, fleet operator, broker, or any other entity that comprises the point of first sale.

(iv) Failure by a manufacturer to submit the end-of-year report within the specified time may result in certificate(s) for the evaporative family(ies) being voided ab initio plus any applicable civil penalties for failure to submit the required information to the Agency.

(v) The information shall be organized in such a way as to allow the Administrator to determine compliance with the Evaporative Emission Testing implementation schedules of §§ 86.096-8, 86.096-9, 86.096-10 and 86.098-11.
