
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.099-10 Emission standards for 1999 and later model year Otto-cycle heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2

() For the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence described in § 86.1230-96, diurnal plus hot soak measurements: 4.5 grams carbon per test.

(B) Running loss test: 0.05 grams carbon per mile.

(3)(i) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 26,000 lbs, the standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section refer to a composite sample of evaporative emissions collected under the conditions and measured in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart M of this part.

(ii) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of greater than 26,000 lbs., the standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section refer to the manufacturer's engineering design evaluation using good engineering practice (a statement of which is required in § 86.091-23(b)(4)(ii)).

(4) All fuel vapor generated in a gasoline- or methanol-fueled heavy-duty vehicle during in-use operations shall be routed exclusively to the evaporative control system (e.g., either canister or engine purge). The only exception to this requirement shall be for emergencies.

(c)-(d) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.098-10.

(e) The standards described in this section do not apply to Otto-cycle medium-duty passenger vehicles (MDPVs) that are subject to regulation under subpart S of this part, except as specified in subpart S of this part. The standards described in this section also do not apply to Otto-cycle engines used in such MDPVs, except as specified in subpart S of this part. The term "medium-duty passenger vehicle" is defined in § 86.1803.
