
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.099-11 Emission standards for 1999 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### Evaporative emissions

(4)from 1999 and later model year heavy-duty vehicles equipped with natural gas-fueled or liquefied petroleum gas-fueled heavy-duty engines shall not exceed the following standards. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles.

(i) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 14,000 pounds for the full three-diurnal test sequence described in ยง 86.1230-96, diurnal plus hot soak measurements: 3.0 grams per test.

(ii) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of greater than 14,000 pounds for the full three-diurnal test sequence described in ยง 86.1230-96, diurnal plus hot soak measurements: 4.0 grams per test.

(iii)(A) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 26,000 pounds, the standards set forth in paragraph (b)(4) of this section refer to a composite sample of evaporative emissions collected under the conditions set forth in subpart M of this part and measured in accordance with those procedures.

(B) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating greater than 26,000 pounds, the standards set forth in paragraphs (b)(3)(ii) and (b)(4)(ii) of this section refer to the manufacturer's engineering design evaluation using good engineering practice (a statement of which is required in ยง 86.091-23(b)(4)(ii)).

(c) No crankcase emissions shall be discharged into the ambient atmosphere from any new 1999 or later model year methanol-, natural gas-, or liquefied petroleum gas-fueled diesel, or any naturally-aspirated diesel heavy-duty engine. For petroleum-fueled engines only, this provision does not apply to engines using turbochargers, pumps, blowers, or superchargers for air induction.

(d) Every manufacturer of new motor vehicle engines subject to the standards prescribed in this section shall, prior to taking any of the actions specified in section 203(a)(1) of the Act, test or cause to be tested motor vehicle engines in accordance with applicable procedures in subpart I or N of this part to ascertain that such test engines meet the requirements of paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this section.
