
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.099-11 Emission standards for 1999 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### 2

() For the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence described in ยง 86.1230-96, diurnal plus hot soak measurements: 4.5 grams per test.

(B) Running loss test: 0.05 grams per mile.

(iii)(A) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 26,000 lbs, the standards set forth in paragraph (b)(3) of this section refer to a composite sample of evaporative emissions collected under the conditions and measured in accordance with the procedures set forth in subpart M of this part. For certification vehicles only, manufacturers may conduct testing to quantify a level of nonfuel background emissions for an individual test vehicle. Such a demonstration must include a description of the source(s) of emissions and an estimated decay rate. The demonstrated level of nonfuel background emissions may be subtracted from emission test results from certification vehicles if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(B) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of greater than 26,000 lbs., the standards set forth in paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section refer to the manufacturer's engineering design evaluation using good engineering practice (a statement of which is required in ยง 86.091-23(b)(4)(ii)).

(iv) All fuel vapor generated during in-use operations shall be routed exclusively to the evaporative control system (e.g., either canister or engine purge). The only exception to this requirement shall be for emergencies.
