
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart A - General Provisions for Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.099-11 Emission standards for 1999 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engines and vehicles.
####### not

(B) For engine familiesintended for use in urban buses, 0.60 gram per brake horsepower-hour (0.22 gram per megajoule). This ceiling value applies whether credits for the family are derived from averaging, trading or banking programs.

(b)(1) The opacity of smoke emission from new 1999 and later model year diesel heavy-duty engine shall not exceed:

(i) 20 percent during the engine acceleration mode.

(ii) 15 percent during the engine lugging mode.

(iii) 50 percent during the peaks in either mode.

(2) The standards set forth in paragraph (b)(1) of this section refer to exhaust smoke emissions generated under the conditions set forth in subpart I of this part and measured and calculated in accordance with those procedures.

(3) Evaporative emissions (total of non-oxygenated hydrocarbons plus methanol) from heavy-duty vehicles equipped with methanol-fueled diesel engines shall not exceed the following standards. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles. The spitback standard also applies to newly assembled vehicles.

(i) For vehicles with a Gross Vehicle Weight Rating of up to 14,000 lbs:
