
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.101 General applicability.
####### General provisions.

(a)This subpart describes test procedures for measuring exhaust, evaporative, and refueling emissions from motor vehicles subject to emission standards under subpart S of this part. This generally includes light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and complete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR. The following provisions apply for all testing under this subpart:

(1) Provisions of this subpart apply to tests performed by both the Administrator and manufacturers.

(2) References in this subpart to engine families and emission control systems apply to durability groups and test groups as applicable.

(3) Except as noted, heavy-duty vehicles are subject to all the same provisions of this subpart that apply to light-duty trucks.

(4) The procedures in this subpart apply for testing vehicles powered by any fuel, except as specified in subpart S of this part.

(5) For exhaust emission testing, measure emissions for all pollutants with an applicable emission standard.

(6) All emission control systems designed for production vehicles must be functioning during testing. Maintenance to correct component malfunction or failure must be authorized in accordance with ยง 86.1834.

(7) The test sequence for the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) includes steps to precondition vehicles for evaporative emission measurements; these steps are required for exhaust testing whether or not testing includes evaporative emission measurements.

(8) Evaporative emission measurement procedures of this subpart include specifications for testing methanol-fueled vehicles. For vehicles fueled with other oxygenated fuels, use good engineering judgment to apply these procedures. For example, if you are testing an ethanol-fueled vehicle, perform diagnostics in your evaporative emission enclosure with ethanol and propane.

(9) For exhaust emission testing with ethanol-gasoline blends that have less than 25% ethanol by volume, if you use NMHC-to-NMOG conversion factors instead of measuring oxygenates as described in 40 CFR 1066.635, the testing specifications and diagnostic requirements in this part 86 that are specific to ethanol-gasoline blends do not apply.
