
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.101 General applicability.
####### Migration to 40 CFR parts 1065 and 1066.

(b)This subpart transitions to rely on the test procedure specifications in 40 CFR parts 1065 and 1066 as follows:

(1) Through model year 2021, manufacturers may use the test procedures specified in paragraph (c) or (d) of this section or, using good engineering judgement, elements of both. For any EPA testing before model year 2022, EPA will use the manufacturer's selected procedures for applying acceptable speed-tolerance criteria (either ยง 86.115-78 or 40 CFR 1066.425(c)). For any other parameters, EPA may conduct testing using either of the specified procedures. As allowed under this part, manufacturers may use carryover data from previous model years to demonstrate compliance with emission standards, without regard to the provisions of this section.

(2) Manufacturers must use the following procedures before model year 2022:

(i) For vehicles certified to any of the Tier 3 emission standards specified in subpart S of this part, determine overall driver accuracy based on drive-cycle metrics as described in 40 CFR 1066.425(j).

(ii) Equipment specifications and measurement procedures that are specific to PM emissions from 40 CFR part 1066 apply for any vehicles certified to the Tier 3 PM emission standards specified in subpart S of this part.

(iii) Use 40 CFR 1066.635 to determine NMOG for any vehicles certified to the Tier 3 NMOG + NOemission standards in subpart S of this part.

(3) For model years 2022 and later, manufacturers must use the test procedures specified in paragraph (d) of this section. Manufacturers may continue to use data based on the test procedures specified in paragraph (c) of this section for an engine family in 2022 and later model years, as long as the engine family is eligible for certification with carryover emission data.
