
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.106-96 Equipment required; overview.
####### Exhaust emission tests.

(2)All vehicles subject to this subpart are subject to testing for both gaseous and particulate exhaust emissions using the CVS concept (see ยง 86.109), except where exemptions or waivers are expressly provided in subpart A of this part. Vehicles subject to the "Tier 0" (i.e., phase-out) standards described under subpart A of this part are exempted from testing for methane emissions. Otto-cycle vehicles subject to the "Tier 0" standards are waived from testing for particulates. For vehicles waived from the requirement for measuring particulate emissions, use of a dilution tunnel is not required (see ยง 86.109). The CVS must be connected to the dilution tunnel if particulate emission sampling is required (see ยง 86.110). Petroleum- and methanol-fueled diesel-cycle vehicle testing requires that a PDP-CVS or CFV-CVS with heat exchanger be used. (This equipment may be used with methanol-fueled Otto-cycle vehicles; however, particulates need not be measured for vehicles that are waived from the requirement). All vehicles equipped with evaporative canisters are preconditioned by loading the canisters with hydrocarbon vapors. Petroleum-fueled diesel vehicles are excluded from this requirement.
