
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.107-98 Sampling and analytical system.
####### Temperature recording system,For all emission testing.

(e)-(1)A strip chart potentiometric recorder, an on-line computer system, or other suitable means shall be used to record enclosure ambient temperature during all evaporative emission test segments, as well as vehicle fuel tank temperature during the running loss test. The recording system shall record each temperature at least once every minute. The recording system shall be capable of resolving time to +/-15 s and capable of resolving temperature to +/-0.75 &#xB0;F (+/-0.42 &#xB0;C). The temperature recording system (recorder and sensor) shall have an accuracy of +/-3 &#xB0;F (+/-1.7 &#xB0;C). The recorder (data processor) shall have a time accuracy of +/-15 s and a precision of +/-15 s. Enclosures shall be equipped with two ambient temperature sensors, connected to provide one average output, located 3 feet above the floor at the approximate mid-length of each side wall of the enclosure and within 3 to 12 inches of each side wall. For diurnal emission testing, an additional temperature sensor shall be located underneath the vehicle to provide a temperature measurement representative of the temperature of the air under the fuel tank. For running loss testing, an ambient temperature sensor shall be located at the inlet to the fan that provides engine cooling. Manufacturers shall arrange that vehicles furnished for testing at federal certification facilities be equipped with temperature sensors for measurement of fuel tank temperature. Vehicles shall be equipped with 2 temperature sensors installed to provide an average liquid fuel temperature. The temperature sensors shall be placed to measure the temperature at the mid-volume of the liquid fuel at a fill level of 40 percent of nominal tank capacity. An additional temperature sensor may be placed to measure vapor temperatures approximately at the mid-volume of the vapor space, though measurement of vapor temperatures is optional during the running loss test. In-tank temperature sensors are not required for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence specified in ยง 86.130-96 or for the refueling test specified in ยง 86.151-98.
