
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.109-94 Exhaust gas sampling system; Otto-cycle vehicles not requiring particulate emission measurements.
####### Critical flow venturi.

(4)The operation of the Critical Flow Venturi-Constant Volume Sampler (CFV-CVS) sample system, Figure B94-4, is based upon the principles of fluid dynamics associated with critical flow. Proportional sampling throughout temperature excursions is maintained by use of small CFVs in the sample lines (for methanol-fueled vehicles, one line supplies sample for the bag sample, another line supplies sample for the methanol sample, and a third line supplies sample for the formaldehyde sample.) The methanol and formaldehyde sample lines are heated to prevent condensation. The temperature of the sample lines shall be more than 5 &#xB0;F (3 &#xB0;C) above the maximum dew point of the sample, but below 250 &#xB0;F (121 &#xB0;C). Care should be taken to ensure that the CFVs of the sample probes are not heated since heating of the CFVs would cause loss of proportionality. The variable mixture flow rate is maintained at sonic velocity, is inversely proportional to the square root of the gas temperature, and is computed continuously. Since the pressure and temperature are the same at all venturi inlets, the sample volume is proportional to the total volume. (Note: For 1990 through 1994 model year methanol-fueled vehicles, methanol and formaldehyde sampling may be omitted provided the bag sample (hydrocarbons and methanol) is analyzed using a HFID calibrated with methanol.)
