
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.109-94 Exhaust gas sampling system; Otto-cycle vehicles not requiring particulate emission measurements.
####### Component description, PDP-CVS.

(b)The PDP-CVS, Figure B94-1, consists of a dilution air filter and mixing assembly, heat exchanger, positive displacement pump, sampling systems (see Figure B94-2 for methanol sampling system and Figure B94-3 for formaldehyde sampling system) sampling lines which are heated to a temperature that is more than 5 &#xB0;F (3 &#xB0;C) above the maximum dew point of the sample, but below 250 &#xB0;F (121 &#xB0;C) in the case of the methanol-fueled vehicles (heating of the sample lines may be omitted, provided the methanol and formaldehyde sample collection systems are close coupled to the probes thereby preventing loss of sample due to cooling and resulting condensation in the sample lines), and associated valves, pressure and temperature sensors. The PDP-CVS shall conform to the following requirements:

(1) Static pressure variations at the tailpipe(s) of the vehicle shall remain within +/-5 inches of water (1.2 kPa) of the static pressure variations measured during a dynamometer driving cycle with no connection to the tailpipe(s). (Sampling systems capable of maintaining the static pressure to within +/-1 inch of water (0.25 kPa) will be used by the Administrator if a written request substantiates the need for this closer tolerance.)

(2) The gas mixture temperature, measured at a point immediately ahead of the positive displacement pump, shall be within +/-10 &#xB0;F (+/-5.6 &#xB0;C) of the designed operating temperature at the start of the test. The gas mixture temperature variation from its value at the start of the test shall be limited to +/-10 &#xB0;F (+/-5.6 &#xB0;C) during the entire test. The temperature measuring system shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-2 &#xB0;F (1.1 &#xB0;C).

(3) The pressure gauges shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-1.6 inches of water (0.4 kPa).

(4) The flow capacity of the CVS shall be large enough to completely eliminate water condensation in the dilution and sampling systems. (300 to 350 cfm (0.142 to 0.165 m/s) is sufficient for most petroleum-fueled vehicles. Higher flow rates are required for methanol-fueled vehicles and may be required for natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles. Procedures for determining CVS flow rates are detailed in "Calculation of Emissions and Fuel Economy When Using Alternative Fuels," EPA 460/3-83-009.) (Copies may be obtained from U.S. Department of Commerce, NTIS, Springfield, Virginia 22161; order #PB84104702.) Dehumidifying the dilution air before entering the CVS is allowed. Hearing the dilution air is also allowed, provided:

(i) The air (or air plus exhaust gas) temperature does not exceed 250 &#xB0;F.

(ii) Calculation of the CVS flow rate necessary to prevent water condensation is based on the lowest temperature encountered in the CVS prior to sampling. (It is recommended that the CVS system be insulated when heated dilution air is used.)

(iii) The dilution ratio is sufficiently high to prevent condensation in bag samples as they cool to room temperature.

(5) Sample collection bags for dilution air and exhaust samples shall be of sufficient size so as not to impede sample flow. A single dilution air sample, covering the total test period, may be collected for the determination of methanol and formaldehyde background (methanol-fueled vehicles).

(6) The methanol sample collection system and the formaldehyde sample collection system shall each be of sufficient capacity so as to collect samples of adequate size for analysis without significant impact on the volume of dilute exhaust passing through the PDP. The systems shall also comply with the following requirements that apply to the design of the systems, not to individual tests.

(i) The methanol system shall be designed such that, if a test vehicle emitted the maximum allowable level of methanol (based on all applicable standards) during the first phase of the test, the measured concentration in the primary impinger would exceed either 25 mg/l or a concentration equal to 25 times the limit of detection for the GC analyzer. Sampling systems for all phases shall be identical.

(ii) The formaldehyde system shall be designed such that, if a test vehicle emitted formaldehyde at a rate equal to twenty percent of the maximum allowable level of NMHCE (i.e., 0.05 g/mi for a 0.25 g/mi NMHCE standard), or the maximum formaldehyde level allowed by a specific formaldehyde standard, whichever is less, during the first phase of the test, the concentration of formaldehyde in the DNPH solution of the primary impinger, or solution resulting from the extraction of the DNPH cartridge, shall exceed either 2.5 mg/l or a concentration equal to 25 times the limit of detection for the HPLC analyzer. Sampling systems for all phases shall be identical.

(iii) The methanol and formaldehyde impinger systems shall be designed such that the primary impinger collects at least 90 percent of the analyte in the samples. The remaining analyte shall be collected by the secondary impinger. This requirement does not apply to dilution air samples, since they do not require secondary impingers, or to samples in which the concentrations approach the limit of detection.
