
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.108-00 Dynamometer.
####### 2

() During these five time intervals when inertia load adjustment is occurring, inertia load adjustment is discontinued when throttle operation is less than 85% of WOT or at the end of the specified time interval.

(C) Each type of generic application for implementing this concept must receive the Administrator's approval before a manufacturer may use these inertia adjustments for official US06 schedule certification tests.

(c) Other dynamometer configurations may be used for testing if it can be demonstrated that the simulated road load power and inertia are equivalent, and if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(d) An electric dynamometer meeting the requirements of paragraph (b)(2) of this section, or a dynamometer approved as equivalent under paragraph (c) of this section, must be used for all types of emission testing in the following situations.

(1)(i) Gasoline vehicles which are part of an engine family which is designated to meet the phase-in of SFTP compliance required under the implementation schedule of table A00-1 of § 86.000-08, or table A00-3, or table A00-5 of § 86.000-09.

(ii) Diesel LDVs and LDT1s which are part of an engine family which is designated to meet the phase-in of SFTP compliance required under the implementation schedule of table A00-1 of § 86.000-08, or table A00-3, or table A00-5 of § 86.000-09.

(2) Starting with the 2002 model year, any light-duty vehicle or light light-duty truck which uses any regulated fuel.

(3) Starting with the 2004 model year, any heavy light-duty truck which uses any regulated fuel.
