
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix M to Part 50 [Reserved]
####### Year

refers to a calendar year.

(a) Section 58.30 of this chapter provides special considerations for data comparisons to the annual PMNAAQS.

(b) Monitors meeting the network technical requirements detailed in § 58.11 of this chapter are suitable for comparison with the NAAQS for PM.

(c) Section 58.12 of this chapter specifies the required minimum frequency of sampling for PM. Exceptions to the specified sampling frequencies, such as seasonal sampling, are subject to the approval of the EPA Regional Administrator and must be documented in the state or local agency Annual Monitoring Network Plan as required in § 58.10 of this chapter and also in AQS.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this appendix, all valid FRM/FEM/ARM PMmass concentration data produced by suitable monitors that are required to be submitted to AQS, or otherwise available to EPA, meeting the requirements of part 58 of this chapter including appendices A, C, and E shall be used in the DV calculations. Generally, EPA will only use such data if they have been certified by the reporting organization (as prescribed by § 58.15 of this chapter); however, data not certified by the reporting organization can nevertheless be used, if the deadline for certification has passed and EPA judges the data to be complete and accurate.

(b) PMmass concentration data (typically collected hourly for continuous instruments and daily for filter-based instruments) shall be reported to AQS in micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m) to at least one decimal place. If concentrations are reported to one decimal place, additional digits to the right of the tenths decimal place shall be truncated. If concentrations are reported to AQS with more than one decimal place, AQS will truncate the value to one decimal place for NAAQS usage (i.e., for implementing the procedures in this appendix). In situations where suitable PMdata are available to EPA but not reported to AQS, the same truncation protocol shall be applied to that data. In situations where PMmass data are submitted to AQS, or are otherwise available, with less precision than specified above, these data shall nevertheless still be deemed appropriate for NAAQS usage.

(c) Twenty-four-hour average concentrations will be computed in AQS from submitted hourly PMconcentration data for each corresponding day of the year and the result will be stored in the first, or start, hour (i.e., midnight, hour '0') of the 24-hour period. A 24-hour average concentration shall be considered valid if at least 75 percent of the hourly averages (i.e., 18 hourly values) for the 24-hour period are available. In the event that less than all 24 hourly average concentrations are available (i.e., less than 24, but at least 18), the 24-hour average concentration shall be computed on the basis of the hours available using the number of available hours within the 24-hour period as the divisor (e.g., 19, if 19 hourly values are available). Twenty-four-hour periods with seven or more missing hours shall also be considered valid if, after substituting zero for all missing hourly concentrations, the resulting 24-hour average daily value is greater than the level of the 24-hour PMNAAQS (i.e., greater than or equal to 35.5 µg/m). Twenty-four hour average PMmass concentrations that are averaged in AQS from hourly values will be truncated to one decimal place, consistent with the data handling procedure for the reported hourly (and also 24-hour filter-based) data.

(d) All calculations shown in this appendix shall be implemented on a site-level basis. Site level concentration data shall be processed as follows:

(1) The default dataset for PMmass concentrations for a site shall consist of the measured concentrations recorded from the designated primary monitor(s). All daily values produced by the primary monitor are considered part of the site record; this includes all creditable samples and all extra samples.

(2) Data for the primary monitors shall be augmented as much as possible with data from collocated monitors. If a valid daily value is not produced by the primary monitor for a particular day (scheduled or otherwise), but a value is available from a collocated monitor, then that collocated value shall be considered part of the combined site data record. If more than one collocated daily value is available, the average of those valid collocated values shall be used as the daily value. The data record resulting from this procedure is referred to as the "combined site data record."

(e) All daily values in a combined site data record are used in the calculations specified in this appendix; however, not all daily values are given credit towards data completeness requirements. Only creditable samples are given credit for data completeness. Creditable samples include daily values in the combined site record that are collected on scheduled sampling days and valid make-up samples taken for missed or invalidated samples on scheduled sampling days. Days are considered scheduled according to the required sampling frequency of the designated primary monitor with one exception. The exception is, if a collocated continuous FEM/ARM monitor has a more intensive sampling frequency than the primary FRM monitor, then samples contributed to the combined site record from that continuous FEM/ARM monitor are always considered scheduled and, hence, also creditable. Daily values in the combined site data record that are reported for nonscheduled days, but that are not valid make-up samples are referred to as extra samples.

(a) The primary annual PMNAAQS is met when the annual PMNAAQS DV is less than or equal to 12.0 µg/mat each eligible monitoring site. The secondary annual PMNAAQS is met when the annual PMNAAQS DV is less than or equal to 15.0 µg/mat each eligible monitoring site.

(b) Three years of valid annual means are required to produce a valid annual PMNAAQS DV. A year meets data completeness requirements when quarterly data capture rates for all four quarters are at least 75 percent. However, years with at least 11 creditable samples in each quarter shall also be considered valid if the resulting annual mean or resulting annual PMNAAQS DV (rounded according to the conventions of section 4.3 of this appendix) is greater than the level of the applicable primary or secondary annual PMNAAQS. Furthermore, where the explicit 75 percent data capture and/or 11 sample minimum requirements are not met, the 3-year annual PMNAAQS DV shall still be considered valid if it passes at least one of the two data substitution tests stipulated below.

(c) In the case of one, two, or three years that do not meet the completeness requirements of section 4.1(b) of this appendix and thus would normally not be useable for the calculation of a valid annual PMNAAQS DV, the annual PMNAAQS DV shall nevertheless be considered valid if one of the test conditions specified in sections 4.1(c)(i) and 4.1(c)(ii) of this appendix is met.

(i) An annual PMNAAQS DV that is above the level of the NAAQS can be validated if it passes the minimum quarterly value data substitution test. This type of data substitution is permitted only if there are at least 30 days across the three quarters of the three years under consideration (e.g., collectively, quarter 1 of year 1, quarter 1 of year 2 and quarter 1 of year 3) from which to select the quarter-specific low value. Data substitution will be performed in all quarter periods that have less than 11 creditable samples.
