
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.110-94 Exhaust gas sampling system; diesel-cycle vehicles, and Otto-cycle vehicles requiring particulate emissions measurements.
####### Filters, particulate sampling.

(d)Use fluorocarbon-coated glass fiber filters or fluorocarbon-based (membrane) filters to collect particulate matter, as follows:

(1) Use primary and back-up test filters as follows for particulate measurements:

(i) During each phase of the UDDS, sample dilute exhaust simultaneously with paired primary and back-up test filters.

(ii) Position the back-up filter holder 3 to 4 inches downstream of the primary filter holder.

(iii) Determine the net weight of particulate material collected on each primary test filter and each back-up test filter using the procedure described in ยง 86.139.

(iv) Determine a ratio of net weights using the following formula:

(v) If the ratio is greater than 0.95, base the particulate emission calculations on the net weight of the primary filter only.

(vi) If the ratio is less than 0.95, base the particulate emission calculations on the combined net weights of the back-up test filter and the primary test filter.

(2) The particulate filter must have a 47 mm diameter (37 mm stain area).
