
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.110-94 Exhaust gas sampling system; diesel-cycle vehicles, and Otto-cycle vehicles requiring particulate emissions measurements.
####### Component description-petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles.

(b)The components necessary for petroleum-fueled, natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicle exhaust sampling shall meet the following requirements:

(1) The PDP-CVS, Figure B94-5, shall contain a proportional particulate sampling system, and shall conform to all of the requirements listed for the exhaust gas PDP-CVS (ยง 86.109(b)), with one exception: a flow rate of sufficient volume is required to maintain the diluted exhaust stream, from which the particulate sample flow is taken, at a temperature of 125 &#xB0;F (52 &#xB0;C) or less.

(2) The CFV sample system, Figure B94-6, shall contain a proportional particulate sampling system, and shall conform to all of the requirements listed for the exhaust gas CFV sample system (ยง 86.109(c)), except for the following:

(i) A flow rate of sufficient volume is required to maintain the diluted exhaust stream, from which the particulate sample flow is taken, at a temperature of 125 &#xB0;F (52 &#xB0;C) or less.

(ii) If a constant volume particulate sample is collected, a heat exchanger is required.

(iii) If a heat exchanger is used, the gas mixture temperature, measured at a point immediately ahead of the critical flow venturi, shall be within +/-20 &#xB0;F (11 &#xB0;C) of the designed operating temperature at the start of the test. The gas mixture temperature variation from its value at the start of the test shall be limited to +/-20 &#xB0;F (11 &#xB0;C) during the entire test. The temperature measuring system shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-2 &#xB0;F (1.1 &#xB0;C).

(iv) The cyclonic separator is optional.

(3) For gasoline-fueled, natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled Otto-cycle and petroleum-fueled, natural gas- fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled diesel-cycle vehicles, the transfer of heat from the vehicle exhaust gas shall be minimized between the point where it leaves the vehicle tailpipe(s) and the point where it enters the dilution tunnel airstream. To accomplish this, a short length (not more than 12 feet (365 cm) if uninsulated, or not more than 20 feet (610 cm) if insulated) of smooth stainless steel tubing from the tailpipe to the dilution tunnel is required. This tubing shall have a maximum inside diameter of 4.0 inches (10.2 cm). Short sections of flexible tubing at connection points are allowed.

(4) The vehicle exhaust shall be directed downstream at the point where it is introduced into the dilution tunnel.

(5) The dilution air shall be between 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 86 &#xB0;F (30 &#xB0;C) during the test.

(6) The dilution tunnel shall be:

(i) Sized to permit development of turbulent flow (Reynolds No. >>4000) and complete mixing of the exhaust and dilution air between the mixing orifice and each of the two sample probes (i.e., the particulate probe and the heated THC sample probe). It is recommended that uniform mixing be demonstrated by the user.

(ii) At least 8.0 inches (20.3 cm) in diameter.

(iii) Constructed of electrically conductive material which does not react with the exhaust components.

(iv) Grounded.

(7) The temperature of the diluted exhaust stream inside of the dilution tunnel shall be sufficient to prevent water condensation. However, the sample zone dilute exhaust temperature shall not exceed 125 &#xB0;F (52 &#xB0;C) at any time during the test.

(8) The particulate sample probe shall be:

(i) Installed facing upstream at a point where the dilution air and exhaust are well mixed (i.e., near the tunnel centerline, approximately 10 tunnel diameters downstream from the point where the exhaust enters the dilution tunnel).

(ii) Sufficiently distant (radially) from the THC probe (when the THC probe is required) so as to be free from the influence of any wakes or eddies produced by the THC probe.

(iii) 0.5 inch (1.27 cm) minimum inside diameter.

(iv) The distance from the sampling tip to the filter holder shall be at least 5 probe diameters (for filters located inside of the tunnel), but not more than 40.0 inches (102 cm) for filters located outside of the dilution tunnel.

(v) Free from sharp bends.

(vi) Configured so that a clean particulate filter (including back-up filter) can be selected simultaneously with the selection of an empty gaseous emissions bag.

(9) The flow rate through the particulate probe shall be maintained to a constant value within +/-5 percent of the set flow rate.

(10) The particulate sample pump shall be located sufficiently distant from the dilution tunnel so that the inlet gas temperature is maintained at a constant temperature (+/-5.0 &#xB0;F (2.8 &#xB0;C)).

(11) The gas meters or flow instrumentation shall be located sufficiently distant from the tunnel so that the inlet gas temperature remains constant (+/-5.0 &#xB0;F (2.8 &#xB0;C)).

(12) The THC probe (when the THC probe is required) shall be:

(i) Installed facing upstream at a point where the dilution air and exhaust are well mixed (i.e., approximately 10 tunnel diameters downstream from the point where the exhaust enters the dilution tunnel).

(ii) Sufficiently distant (radially) from the particulate probe so as to be free from the influence of any wakes or eddies produced by the particulate probe.

(iii) Heated and insulated over the entire length to maintain a 375 &#xB0;+/-20 &#xB0;F (191 &#xB0;+/-11 &#xB0;C) wall temperature.

(iv) 0.19 in. (0.48 cm) minimum inside diameter.

(13) It is intended that the THC probe be free from cold spots (i.e., free from spots where the probe wall temperature is less than 355 &#xB0;F). This will be determined by a temperature sensor located on a section of the probe wall outside of the dilution tunnel. The temperature sensor shall be insulated from any heating elements on the probe. The sensor shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-2 &#xB0;F (1.1 &#xB0;C).

(14) The dilute exhaust gas flowing in the THC sample system shall be:

(i) At 375 &#xB0;F+/-10 &#xB0;F (191 &#xB0;C+/-6 &#xB0;C) immediately before the heated filter. This will be determined by a temperature sensor located immediately upstream of the filter. The sensor shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-2 &#xB0;F (1.1 &#xB0;C).

(ii) At 375 &#xB0;F+/-10 &#xB0;F (191 &#xB0;C +/-6 &#xB0;C) immediately before the HFID. This will be determined by a temperature sensor located at the exit of the heated sample line. The sensor shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-2 &#xB0;F (1.1 &#xB0;C).

(15) It is intended that the dilute exhaust gas flowing in the THC sample system be between 365 &#xB0;F and 385 &#xB0;F (185 &#xB0;C and 197 &#xB0;C).
