
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.113-04 Fuel specifications.
####### Gasoline fuel.

(a)(1) Gasoline meeting the following specifications, or substantially equivalent specifications approved by the Administrator, must be used for exhaust and evaporative testing:

(2) Manufacturers may use California test fuels, as follows:

(i) For model year 2014 and earlier vehicles certified for 50-state sale, manufacturers may perform exhaust emission tests using California Phase 2 gasoline as specified in Chapter 4 of the California Regulatory Requirements Applicable to the National Low Emission Vehicle Program, October 1996 (incorporated by reference in § 86.1). However, the Administrator may use or require the use of test fuel meeting the specifications in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for confirmatory testing, selective enforcement auditing and in-use testing.

(ii) For model year 2015 and later, manufacturers may certify 50-state Tier 2 vehicles based on testing used to meet California's LEV III standards, subject to the following provisions:

(A) Manufacturers may perform exhaust and evaporative emission tests using California Phase 2 gasoline or California LEV III gasoline. The Administrator may use or require the use of test fuel meeting the specifications in paragraph (a)(1) of this section for confirmatory testing, selective enforcement auditing and in-use testing.

(B) All evaporative testing with California fuel must be conducted with temperatures meeting the specifications adopted by the California Air Resources Board.

(C) The vehicles must also meet exhaust and evaporative emission standards at high-altitude conditions as specified in §§ 86.1811-17 and 86.1813-17, except that testing is based on the fuel specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(D) The vehicle must meet the applicable cold temperature standards using test fuel specified for cold temperature testing in § 86.213.

(3)(i) Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, gasoline representative of commercial gasoline that will be generally available through retail outlets must be used in service accumulation. Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, where the vehicle is to be used for evaporative emission durability demonstration, such fuel must contain ethanol as required by § 86.1824-08(f)(1).

(ii) Unless otherwise approved by the Administrator, the octane rating of the gasoline used must be no higher than 1.0 Retail octane number above the lowest octane rating that meets the fuel grade the manufacturer will recommend to the ultimate purchaser for the relevant production vehicles. If the manufacturer recommends a Retail octane number rather than a fuel grade, then the octane rating of the service accumulation gasoline can be no higher than 1.0 Retail octane number above the recommended Retail octane number. The service accumulation gasoline must also have a minimum sensitivity of 7.5 octane numbers, where sensitivity is defined as the Research octane number minus the Motor octane number.

(iii) The Reid Vapor Pressure of the gasoline used must be characteristic of the motor fuel used during the season in which the service accumulation takes place.

(4) The specification range of the gasoline to be used under this paragraph (a) must be reported in accordance with §§ 86.094-21(b)(3) and 86.1844-01.

(b)-(g) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.113-94.
