
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.113-94 Fuel specifications.
####### Liquefied petroleum gas fuel.

(f)(1) Liquefied petroleum gas fuel used for exhaust and evaporative emission testing and in service accumulation shall be commercially available liquefied petroleum gas fuel.

(i) Manufacturers shall recommend the liquefied petroleum gas fuel to be used for testing and service accumulation.

(ii) The Administrator shall determine the liquefied petroleum gas fuel to be used for testing and service accumulation.

(2) Other liquefied petroleum gas fuels may be used for testing and service accumulation provided:

(i) They are commercially available; and

(ii) Information, acceptable to the Administrator, is provided to show that only the designated fuel would be used in customer service; and

(iii) Written approval from the Administrator of the fuel specifications must be provided prior to the start of testing.

(3) The specification range of the fuel to be used under paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section shall be measured in accordance with ASTM D2163 (incorporated by reference in ยง 86.1).

(g) Fuels not meeting the specifications set forth in this section may be used only with the advance approval of the Administrator.
