
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.117-96 Evaporative emission enclosure calibrations.
####### Initial and periodic determination of enclosure background emissions.

(a)Prior to its introduction into service, annually thereafter, and after any repair that can affect the enclosure background emissions, the enclosure shall be checked to determine that it does not contain materials that will themselves emit hydrocarbons or methanol. When methanol as well as hydrocarbons are present in the evaporative enclosure, the HFID hydrocarbon concentration measurement includes the partial response of the HFID to methanol plus the hydrocarbons. Determination of the HFID response to methanol, ยง 86.121, prior to its being placed in service is required for the determination of hydrocarbons. Proceed as follows:

(1) Prepare the enclosure. (i) Variable-volume enclosures may be operated in either latched or unlatched volume configuration, as described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. Ambient temperatures shall be maintained at 96+/-3 &#xB0;F throughout the 4-hour period.

(ii) Fixed-volume enclosures may be operated with inlet and outlet flow streams either closed or open; if inlet and outlet flow streams are open, the air flowing into and out of the enclosure must be monitored in accordance with ยง 86.107-96(a)(1)(ii)(B). Ambient temperatures shall be maintained at 96+/-3 &#xB0;F throughout the 4-hour period.

(iii) For running loss enclosures ambient temperatures shall be maintained at 95+/-3 &#xB0;F throughout the 4-hour period. For running loss enclosures designed with a vent for makeup air, the enclosure shall be operated with the vent closed.

(2) The enclosure may be sealed and the mixing fan operated for a period of up to 12 hours before the 4-hour background sampling period begins.

(3) Zero and span (calibrate if required) the hydrocarbon analyzer.

(4) Prior to the background determination, purge the enclosure until a stable background hydrocarbon reading is obtained.

(5) Turn on the mixing blower (if not already on).

(6) Seal enclosure and measure background hydrocarbon concentration, background methanol, temperature, and barometric pressure.

These are the initial readings C, C, and P, Tfor the enclosure background determination.

(7) Allow the enclosure to stand undisturbed for four hours.

(8) Measure the hydrocarbon concentration on the same FID and the methanol level. These are the final concentrations, Cand C. Also measure final temperature and barometric pressure.

(9) Calculate the mass change of methanol, hydrocarbons, and hydrocarbons plus methanol in the enclosure according to the equations in paragraph (d) of this section.
