
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix M to Part 50 [Reserved]
####### Procedure:

Identify for each deficient quarter (i.e., those with less than 75 percent but at least 50 percent data capture) the highest reported daily value for that quarter, excluding state-flagged data affected by exceptional events which have been approved for exclusion by the Administrator, looking across those three quarters of all three years under consideration. If after substituting the highest reported daily PMvalue for a quarter for all missing daily data in the matching deficient quarter(s) (i.e., to make those quarters 100 percent complete), the procedure yields a recalculated annual PMNAAQS test DV (TDV) that is less than or equal to the level of the standard, then the annual PMNAAQS DV is deemed to have passed the diagnostic test and is valid, and the annual PMNAAQS is deemed to have been met in that 3-year period.

(d) An annual PMNAAQS DV based on data that do not meet the completeness criteria stated in 4(b) and also do not satisfy the test conditions specified in section 4(c), may also be considered valid with the approval of, or at the initiative of, the EPA Administrator, who may consider factors such as monitoring site closures/moves, monitoring diligence, the consistency and levels of the daily values that are available, and nearby concentrations in determining whether to use such data.

(e) The equations for calculating the annual PMNAAQS DVs are given in section 4.4 of this appendix.

(a) The primary and secondary 24-hour PMNAAQS are met when the 24-hour PMNAAQS DV at each eligible monitoring site is less than or equal to 35 µg/m.

(b) Three years of valid annual PM98th percentile mass concentrations are required to produce a valid 24-hour PMNAAQS DV. A year meets data completeness requirements when quarterly data capture rates for all four quarters are at least 75 percent. However, years shall be considered valid, notwithstanding quarters with less than complete data (even quarters with less than 11 creditable samples, but at least one creditable sample must be present for the year), if the resulting annual 98th percentile value or resulting 24-hour NAAQS DV (rounded according to the conventions of section 4.3 of this appendix) is greater than the level of the standard. Furthermore, where the explicit 75 percent quarterly data capture requirement is not met, the 24-hour PMNAAQS DV shall still be considered valid if it passes the maximum quarterly value data substitution test.

(c) In the case of one, two, or three years that do not meet the completeness requirements of section 4.2(b) of this appendix and thus would normally not be useable for the calculation of a valid 24-hour PMNAAQS DV, the 24-hour PMNAAQS DV shall nevertheless be considered valid if the test conditions specified in section 4.2(c)(i) of this appendix are met.

(i) A PM24-hour mass NAAQS DV that is equal to or below the level of the NAAQS can be validated if it passes the maximum quarterly value data substitution test. This type of data substitution is permitted only if there is at least 50 percent data capture in each quarter that is deficient of 75 percent data capture in each of the three years under consideration. Data substitution will be performed in all quarters that have less than 75 percent data capture but at least 50 percent data capture. If any quarter has less than 50 percent data capture then this substitution test cannot be used.
