
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.114-94 Analytical gases.
####### Analyzer gases.

(a)(1) Gases for the CO and COanalyzers shall be single blends of CO and COrespectively using nitrogen as the diluent.

(2) Gases for the THC analyzer shall be:

(i) Single blends of propane using air as the diluent; and

(ii) Optionally, for response factor determination, single blends of methanol using air as the diluent.

(3) Gases for the methane analyzer shall be single blends of methane using air as the diluent.

(4) Gases for the NOanalyzer shall be single blends of NO named as NO. with a maximum NOconcentration of 5 percent of the nominal value, using nitrogen as the diluent.

(5) Fuel for FIDs and HFIDs and the methane analyzer shall be a blend of 40 +/-2 percent hydrogen with the balance being helium. The mixture shall contain less than one ppm equivalent carbon response. 98 to 100 percent hydrogen fuel may be used with advance approval by the Administrator.

(6) The allowable zero gas (air or nitrogen) impurity concentrations shall not exceed 1 ppm equivalent carbon response, 1 ppm carbon monoxide, 0.04 percent (400 ppm) carbon dioxide, and 0.1 ppm nitric oxide.

(7) "Zero grade air" includes artificial "air" consisting of a blend of nitrogen and oxygen with oxygen concentrations between 18 and 21 mole percent.

(8) The use of precision blending devices (gas dividers) to obtain the required calibration, as defined below, is acceptable, provided that the calibration curves they produce name a calibration gas within 2 percent of its certified concentration. This verification shall be performed at between 15 and 50 percent of the full scale concentration of the range and shall be included with each gas calibration incorporating a blending device. Alternative procedures to verify the validity of the analyzer calibration curves generated using a gas divider are acceptable provided the procedures are approved in advance by the Administrator.

(b) Calibration gases (not including methanol) shall be traceable to within one percent of NIST (formerly NBS) gas standards, or other gas standards which have been approved by the Administrator.

(c) Span gases (not including methanol) shall be accurate to within two percent of true concentration, where true concentration refers to NIST (formerly NBS) gas standards, or other gas standards which have been approved by the Administrator.

(d) Methanol in air gases used for response factor determination shall:

(1) Be traceable to within +/-2 percent of NIST (formerly NBS) gas standards, or other standards which have been approved by the Administrator; and

(2) Remain within +/-2 percent of the labeled concentration. Demonstration of stability shall be based on a quarterly measurement procedure with a precision of +/-2 percent (two standard deviations), or other method approved by the Administrator. The measurement procedure may incorporate multiple measurements. If the true concentration of the gas changes by more than two percent, but less than ten percent, the gas may be relabeled with the new concentration.
