
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.117-96 Evaporative emission enclosure calibrations.
####### Calculations.

(d)(1) The calculation of net methanol and hydrocarbon mass change is used to determine enclosure background and leak rate. It is also used to check the enclosure volume measurements. The methanol mass change is calculated from the initial and final methanol samples, the net withdrawn methanol (in the case of diurnal emission testing with fixed-volume enclosures), and initial and final temperature according to the following equation:

(2) The hydrocarbon mass change is calculated from the initial and final FID readings of hydrocarbon concentration, methanol concentration with FID response to methanol, the net withdrawn hydrocarbon and methanol (in the case of diurnal emission testing with fixed-volume enclosures), and initial and final temperature and pressure according to the following equation:

(i) M= Hydrocarbon mass change, g.

(ii) C= FID hydrocarbon concentration as ppm carbon, that is, ppm propane x 3, including FID response to methanol in the sample.

(iii) C= Methanol concentration as ppm carbon

(iv) V = Enclosure volume ft(m), as measured in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(v) r = FID response factor to methanol.

(vi) P= Barometric pressure, in. Hg. (kPa).

(vii) T = Enclosure ambient temperature, R(K).

(viii) i = Indicates initial reading.

(ix) f = Indicates final reading.

(x)(A) k = 3.05.

(B) For SI units, k = 17.60.

(xi) M= mass of hydrocarbon exiting the enclosure, in the case of fixed-volume enclosures for diurnal emission testing, g.

(xii) M= mass of hydrocarbon entering the enclosure, in the case of fixed-volume enclosures for diurnal emission testing, g.

(3) For variable-volume enclosures, defined in ยง 86.107(a)(1)(i), the following simplified form of the hydrocarbon mass change equation may be used:
