
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.117-96 Evaporative emission enclosure calibrations.
####### Hydrocarbon and methanol (organic gas) retention check and calibration.

(c)The hydrocarbon and methanol (if the enclosure is used for methanol-fueled vehicles) retention check provides a check upon the calculated volume and also measures the leak rate. The enclosure leak rate shall be determined prior to its introduction into service, following any modifications or repairs to the enclosure that may affect the integrity of the enclosure, and at least monthly thereafter. The methanol retention check must be performed only upon initial installation and after major maintenance, consistent with good engineering judgment. If six consecutive monthly retention checks are successfully completed without corrective action, the enclosure leak rate may be determined quarterly thereafter as long as no corrective action is required.

(1) An enclosure to be used for the diurnal emission test (see § 86.133-96) shall be calibrated according to the following procedure. Calibration for hydrocarbon and methanol may be conducted simultaneously or in sequential test runs.

(i) Zero and span (calibrate if required) the hydrocarbon analyzer.

(ii) Purge the enclosure until a stable background hydrocarbon reading is obtained.

(iii) Turn on the mixing blowers (if not already on).

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) Turn on the ambient temperature control system (if not already on) and adjust it for an initial temperature of 96 &#xB0;F (36 &#xB0;C). On variable-volume enclosures, latch the enclosure to the appropriate volume position for the set temperature. On fixed-volume enclosures close the outlet and inlet flow streams.

(vi) When the enclosure stabilizes at 96+/-3 &#xB0;F (36+/-2 &#xB0;C), seal the enclosure and measure background hydrocarbon concentration, background methanol, temperature, and barometric pressure. These are the initial readings C, C, T, and Pfor the enclosure calibration.

(vii) Inject into the enclosure 0.5 to 1.0 grams of pure methanol at a recommended temperature of at least 150 &#xB0;F (65 &#xB0;C) and/or 0.5 to 1.0 grams of pure propane at lab ambient temperature. The injected quantity may be measured by volume flow or by mass measurement. The method used to measure the quantity of methanol and propane must have an accuracy of +/-0.5 percent of the measured value (less accurate methods may be used with the advance approval of the Administrator).

(viii) After a minimum of 5 minutes of mixing, analyze the enclosure atmosphere for hydrocarbon and methanol content, also record temperature and pressure. These measurements are the final readings for the enclosure calibration as well as the initial readings for the retention check.

(ix) To verify the enclosure calibration, calculate the mass of propane and the mass of methanol using the measurements taken in paragraphs (c)(1)(vi) and (viii) of this section. See paragraph (d) of this section. This quantity must be within +/-2 percent of that measured in paragraph (c)(1)(vii) of this section for propane and +/-5 percent for methanol. Evaluate long-term trends using good engineering judgment to minimize measurement bias. Keep records to document such evaluations and make them available to EPA upon request.

(x) For variable-volume enclosures, unlatch the enclosure from the nominal volume configuration. For fixed-volume enclosures, open the outlet and inlet flow streams.

(xi) Start cycling the ambient temperature from 96 &#xB0;F to 72 &#xB0;F and back to 96 &#xB0;F over a 24-hour period, according to the profile specified in § 86.133-96 and appendix II of this part, within 15 minutes of sealing the enclosure.

(xii) At the completion of the 24-hour cycling period, analyze the enclosure atmosphere for hydrocarbon and methanol content; determine the net withdrawn methanol (in the case of diurnal emission testing with fixed volume enclosures); record temperature and barometric pressure. These are the final readings for the hydrocarbon and methanol retention check. The final hydrocarbon and methanol mass, calculated in paragraph (d) of this section, shall be within three percent of that determined in paragraph (c)(1)(viii) of this section. (For 1991-1995 calendar years, the difference may exceed +/-3 percent for methanol, provided it does not exceed +/-6 percent.)

(2) An enclosure to be used for the running loss test (see § 86.134-96) shall meet the calibration and retention requirements of § 86.117-90(c).

(3) Enclosures calibrated according to the procedures specified in either paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section may be used for hot soak testing (see § 86.138).
