
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix M to Part 50 [Reserved]
####### Procedure:

Identify for each deficient quarter (i.e., those with less than 75 percent but at least 50 percent data capture) the highest reported daily PMvalue for that quarter, excluding state-flagged data affected by exceptional events which have been approved for exclusion by the Regional Administrator, looking across those three quarters of all three years under consideration. If, after substituting the highest reported daily maximum PMvalue for a quarter for all missing daily data in the matching deficient quarter(s) (i.e., to make those quarters 100 percent complete), the procedure yields a recalculated 3-year 24-hour NAAQS test DV (TDV) less than or equal to the level of the standard, then the 24-hour PMNAAQS DV is deemed to have passed the diagnostic test and is valid, and the 24-hour PMNAAQS is deemed to have been met in that 3-year period.

(d) A 24-hour PMNAAQS DV based on data that do not meet the completeness criteria stated in section 4(b) of this appendix and also do not satisfy the test conditions specified in section 4(c) of this appendix, may also be considered valid with the approval of, or at the initiative of, the EPA Administrator, who may consider factors such as monitoring site closures/moves, monitoring diligence, the consistency and levels of the daily values that are available, and nearby concentrations in determining whether to use such data.

(e) The procedures and equations for calculating the 24-hour PMNAAQS DVs are given in section 4.5 of this appendix.

4.3 Rounding Conventions. For the purposes of comparing calculated PMNAAQS DVs to the applicable level of the standard, it is necessary to round the final results of the calculations described in sections 4.4 and 4.5 of this appendix. Results for all intermediate calculations shall not be rounded.

(a) Annual PMNAAQS DVs shall be rounded to the nearest tenth of a µg/m(decimals x.x5 and greater are rounded up to the next tenth, and any decimal lower than x.x5 is rounded down to the nearest tenth).

(b) Twenty-four-hour PMNAAQS DVs shall be rounded to the nearest 1 µg/m(decimals 0.5 and greater are rounded up to the nearest whole number, and any decimal lower than 0.5 is rounded down to the nearest whole number).

(a) An annual mean value for PMis determined by first averaging the daily values of a calendar quarter using equation 1 of this appendix:

(b) Equation 2 of this appendix is then used to calculate the site annual mean:

(c) The annual PMNAAQS DV is calculated using equation 3 of this appendix:

(d) The annual PMNAAQS DV is rounded according to the conventions in section 4.3 of this appendix before comparisons with the levels of the primary and secondary annual PMNAAQS are made.

(a) When the data for a particular site and year meet the data completeness requirements in section 4.2 of this appendix, calculation of the 98th percentile is accomplished by the steps provided in this subsection. Table 1 of this appendix shall be used to identify annual 98th percentile values.

Identification of annual 98th percentile values using the Table 1 procedure will be based on the creditable number of samples (as described below), rather than on the actual number of samples. Credit will not be granted for extra (non-creditable) samples. Extra samples, however, are candidates for selection as the annual 98th percentile. [The creditable number of samples will determine how deep to go into the data distribution, but all samples (creditable and extra) will be considered when making the percentile assignment.] The annual creditable number of samples is the sum of the four quarterly creditable number of samples.
