
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.121-90 Hydrocarbon analyzer calibration.
####### Initial and periodic calibration.

(b)Prior to its introduction into service and monthly thereafter the FID or HFID hydrocarbon analyzers shall be calibrated on all normally used instrument ranges, and, if testing methanol vehicles under the procedure described in ยง 86.107-90(a)(2)(ii) or ยง 86.110-90(a)(4), the methanol response factor shall be determined (paragraph (c) of this section). Use the same flow rate as when analyzing sample.

(1) Adjust analyzer to optimize performance.

(2) Zero the hydrocarbon analyzer with zero-grade air.

(3) Calibrate on each normally used operating range with propane in air calibration gases (either methanol or methane in air as appropriate) having nominal concentrations of 15, 30, 45, 60, 75 and 90 percent of that range. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least squares best-fit straight line is two percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds two percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within two percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration.
