
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.121-90 Hydrocarbon analyzer calibration.
####### FID response factor to methanol.

(c)When the FID analyzer is to be used for the analysis of hydrocarbon samples containing methanol, the methanol response factor of the analyzer shall be established. The methanol response factor shall be determined at several concentrations in the range of concentrations in the exhaust sample, using either bag samples or gas bottles meeting the requirements of ยง 86.114.

(1) The bag sample of methanol for analysis in the FID, if used, shall be prepared using the apparatus shown in Figure B90-11. A known volume of methanol is injected, using a microliter syringe, into the heated mixing zone (250 &#xB0;F (121 &#xB0;C)) of the apparatus. The methanol is vaporized and swept into the sample bag with a known volume of zero grade air measured by a gas flow meter meeting the performance requirements of ยง 86.120.

(2) The bag sample is analyzed using the FID.

(3) The FID response factor, r, is calculated as follows:

(i) r = FID response factor.

(ii) FIDppm = FID reading in ppmC.

(iii) SAMppm = methanol concentration in the sample bag, or gas bottle, in ppmC. SAMppm for sample bags

(iv) 0.02406 = Volume of one mole at 29.92 in. Hg and 68 &#xB0;F, m.

(v) Fuel injected = Volume of methanol injected, ml.

(vi) Fuel density = Density of methanol, 0.7914 g/ml.

(vii) Air volume = Volume of zero grade air, m.

(viii) Mol. Wt. CHOH = 32.04.
