
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.121-90 Hydrocarbon analyzer calibration.
####### Initial and periodic optimization of detector response.

(a)Prior to its introduction into service and at least annually thereafter, the FID and HFID hydrocarbon analyzers shall be adjusted for optimum hydrocarbon response. Alternate methods yielding equivalent results may be used, if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(1) Follow the manufacturer's instructions or good engineering practice for instrument startup and basic operating adjustment using the appropriate FID fuel and zero-grade air.

(2) Optimize on the most common operating range. Introduce into the analyzer a propane (methane as appropriate) in air mixture (methanol in air mixture for methanol-fueled vehicles when optional methanol calibrated HFID procedure is used during the 1994 model year) with a propane (or methane or methanol as appropriate) concentration equal to approximately 90 percent of the most common operating range.

(3) One of the following is required for FID or HFID optimization:

(i) For all FIDs and HFIDs, the procedures specified by the applicable FID or HFID manufacturer.

(ii) For Beckman 400 FIDs only, implementation of the recommendations outlined in Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) paper No. 770141, "Optimization of Flame Ionization Detector for Determination of Hydrocarbons in Diluted Automobile Exhaust"; author, Glenn D. Reschke.

(iii) For HFIDs only, the following peaking procedure. (A) With the fuel and air flow rates set in the manufacturer's recommendations, determine the analyzer response from the difference between the span-gas response and the zero gas response. Incrementally adjust the fuel flow above and below the manufacturer's specification. Record the span and zero response at these fuel flows. A plot of the difference between the span and zero response versus the fuel flow will be similar to the one shown in Fig. B87-11. Adjust the fuel-flow rate to the highest setting that produces the maximum analyzer response.

(B) To determine the optimum air flow, use the fuel flow setting determined in paragraph (a)(3)(iii)(A) of this section and vary air flow.

(iv) Alternative procedures may be used if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(4) To determine the optimum air flow, use the FID fuel flow setting determined above and vary air flow.

(5) After the optimum flow rates have been determined, record them for future reference.
