
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.123-78 Oxides of nitrogen analyzer calibration.
####### Initial and periodic calibration.

(b)Prior to its introduction into service and monthly thereafter the chemiluminescent oxides of nitrogen analyzer shall be calibrated on all normally used instrument ranges. Use the same flow rate as when analyzing samples. Proceed as follows:

(1) Adjust analyzer to optimize performance.

(2) Zero the oxides of nitrogen analyzer with zero-grade air or zero-grade nitrogen.

(3) Calibrate on each normally used operating range with NO in N2 calibration gases having nominal concentrations of 15, 30, 45, 60, 75, and 90 percent of that range. For each range calibrated, if the deviation from a least-squares best-fit straight line is 2 percent or less of the value at each data point, concentration values may be calculated by use of a single calibration factor for that range. If the deviation exceeds 2 percent at any point, the best-fit non-linear equation which represents the data to within 2 percent of each test point shall be used to determine concentration.

(c) When testing methanol-fueled vehicles, it may be necessary to clean the analyzer frequently to prevent interference with NOmeasurements (see EPA/600/S3-88/040).
