
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.129-80 Road load power, test weight, and inertia weight class determination.
####### Power absorption unit adjustment-light-duty trucks.

(b)(1) The power absorption unit shall be adjusted to reproduce road load power at 50 mph true speed. The indicated road load power setting shall take into account the dynamometer friction. The relationship between road load (absorbed) power and indicated road load power for a particular dynamometer shall be determined by the procedure outlined in ยง 86.118 or other suitable means.

(2) The road load power listed in the table above shall be used or the vehicle manufacturer may determine the road load power by an alternate procedure requested by the manufacturer and approved in advance by the Administrator.

(3) Where it is expected that more than 33 percent of a car line within an engine-system combination will be equipped with air conditioning per ยง 86.080-24(g)(2), the road load power listed above or as determined in paragraph (b)(2) of this section shall be increased by 10 percent, up to a maximum increase of 1.4 horsepower, for testing all test vehicies representing that car line within that engine-system combination if those vehicles are intended to be offered with air conditioning in production. The above increase for air conditioning shall be added prior to rounding off as instructed by notes 2 and 3 of the table.
