
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix M to Part 50 [Reserved]
####### P,y
########### Appendix O to Part 50 - Reference Method for the Determination of Coarse Particulate Matter as PMin the Atmosphere

1.1 This method provides for the measurement of the mass concentration of coarse particulate matter (PM) in ambient air over a 24-hour period. In conjunction with additional analysis, this method may be used to develop speciated data.

1.2 For the purpose of this method, PMis defined as particulate matter having an aerodynamic diameter in the nominal range of 2.5 to 10 micrometers, inclusive.

1.3 For this reference method, PMconcentrations shall be measured as the arithmetic difference between separate but concurrent, collocated measurements of PMand PM, where the PMmeasurements are obtained with a specially approved sampler, identified as a "PMsampler," that meets more demanding performance requirements than conventional PMsamplers described in appendix J of this part. Measurements obtained with a PMsampler are identified as "PMmeasurements" to distinguish them from conventional PMmeasurements obtained with conventional PMsamplers. Thus, PM= PM- PM.

1.4 The PMand PMgravimetric measurement processes are considered to be nondestructive, and the PMand PMsamples obtained in the PMmeasurement process can be subjected to subsequent physical or chemical analyses.

1.5 Quality assessment procedures are provided in part 58, appendix A of this chapter. The quality assurance procedures and guidance provided in reference 1 in section 13 of this appendix, although written specifically for PM, are generally applicable for PM, and, hence, PMmeasurements under this method, as well.

1.6 A method based on specific model PMand PMsamplers will be considered a reference method for purposes of part 58 of this chapter only if:

(a) The PMand PMsamplers and the associated operational procedures meet the requirements specified in this appendix and all applicable requirements in part 53 of this chapter, and

(b) The method based on the specific samplers and associated operational procedures have been designated as a reference method in accordance with part 53 of this chapter.

1.7 PMmethods based on samplers that meet nearly all specifications set forth in this method but have one or more significant but minor deviations or modifications from those specifications may be designated as "Class I" equivalent methods for PMin accordance with part 53 of this chapter.

1.8 PMmeasurements obtained incidental to the PMmeasurements by this method shall be considered to have been obtained with a reference method for PMin accordance with appendix L of this part.

1.9 PMmeasurements obtained incidental to the PMmeasurements by this method shall be considered to have been obtained with a reference method for PMin accordance with appendix J of this part, provided that:

(a) The PMmeasurements are adjusted to EPA reference conditions (25 &#xB0;C and 760 millimeters of mercury), and

(b) Such PMmeasurements are appropriately identified to differentiate them from PMmeasurements obtained with other (conventional) methods for PMdesignated in accordance with part 53 of this chapter as reference or equivalent methods for PM.

2.1 Separate, collocated, electrically powered air samplers for PMand PMconcurrently draw ambient air at identical, constant volumetric flow rates into specially shaped inlets and through one or more inertial particle size separators where the suspended particulate matter in the PMor PMsize range, as applicable, is separated for collection on a polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) filter over the specified sampling period. The air samplers and other aspects of this PMreference method are specified either explicitly in this appendix or by reference to other applicable regulations or quality assurance guidance.

2.2 Each PMand PMsample collection filter is weighed (after moisture and temperature conditioning) before and after sample collection to determine the net weight (mass) gain due to collected PMor PM. The total volume of air sampled by each sampler is determined by the sampler from the measured flow rate at local ambient temperature and pressure and the sampling time. The mass concentrations of both PMand PMin the ambient air are computed as the total mass of collected particles in the PMor PMsize range, as appropriate, divided by the total volume of air sampled by the respective samplers, and expressed in micrograms per cubic meter (µg/m)at local temperature and pressure conditions. The mass concentration of PMis determined as the PMconcentration value less the corresponding, concurrently measured PMconcentration value.

2.3 Most requirements for PMreference methods are similar or identical to the requirements for PMreference methods as set forth in appendix L to this part. To insure uniformity, applicable appendix L requirements are incorporated herein by reference in the sections where indicated rather than repeated in this appendix.
