
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.129-80 Road load power, test weight, and inertia weight class determination.
####### A

A vehicle is considered to have a fastback shape if the rearward projection of that portion of the rear surface () which slopes at an angle of less than 20 degrees from the horizontal is at least 25 percent as large as the vehicle reference frontal area. In addition, this surface must be smooth, continuous, and free from any local transitions greater than four degrees. An example of a fastback shape is presented in Figure 1.

(ii) The dynamometer power absorber setting for light-duty vehicles shall be rounded to the nearest 0.1 horsepower.

(iii) For light-duty vehicles to be tested on a single, large roll dynamometer.

(3) The road load power calculated above shall be used or the vehicle manufacturer may determine the road load power by an alternate procedure requested by the manufacturer and approved in advance by the Administrator.

(4) Where it is expected that more than 33 percent of a car line within an engine-system combination will be equipped with air conditioning, per ยง 86.080-24(g)(2), the road load power as determined in paragraph (c) (2) or (3) of this section shall be increased by 10 percent up to a maximum increment of 1.4 horsepower, for testing all test vehicles of that car line within that engine-system combination if those vehicles are intended to be offered with air conditioning in production. This power increment shall be added to the indicated dynamometer power absorption setting prior to rounding off this value.
