
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.132-00 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### Applicability.

Section 86.132-96 (a) through (c)(1) and (d) through (m) and paragraph (c)(2) of this section are applicable to FTP and evaporative emission testing. Paragraphs (n) and (o) of this section are applicable to vehicles tested for the SFTP supplemental tests of aggressive driving (US06) and air conditioning (SC03). Section 86.132-00 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.132-96. Where a paragraph in § 86.132-96 is identical and applicable to § 86.132-00, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement "[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.132-96."

(a)-(c)(1) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.132-96.

(c)(2)(i) Once a test vehicle has completed the refueling and vehicle soak steps specified in § 86.132-96 (b) and (c)(1), these steps may be omitted in subsequent testing with the same vehicle and the same fuel specifications, provided the vehicle remains under laboratory ambient temperature conditions for at least 6 hours before starting the next test. In such cases, each subsequent test shall begin with the preconditioning drive specified in § 86.132-96(c)(1). The test vehicle may not be used to set dynamometer horsepower.

(ii) The SFTP test elements of aggressive driving (US06) and air conditioning (SC03) can be run immediately or up to 72 hours after the official FTP and/or evaporative test sequence without refueling provided the vehicle has remained under laboratory ambient temperature conditions. If the time interval exceeds 72 hours or the vehicle leaves the ambient temperature conditions of the laboratory, the manufacturer must repeat the refueling operation.

(d)-(m) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.132-96.
