
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.132-96 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### For gasoline- and methanol-fueled vehicles.

(1)(i) Additional preconditioning shall consist of no more than 50 miles of mileage accumulation under typical driving conditions, either on the road or on a dynamometer.

(ii) In the case of repeat testing on a flexible-fueled vehicle, in which the test fuel is changed, the following preconditioning procedure shall be used. This additional preconditioning allows the vehicle to adapt to the new fuel before the next test run.

(A) Purge the vehicle's evaporative canister for 60 minutes at 0.8 cfm.

(B) Drain the fuel tank(s) and fill with 3 gallons of the test fuel.

(C) Start the vehicle and allow it to idle for 1 minute.

(D) Drain the fuel tank(s) and fill with the new test fuel to the "tank fuel volume" defined in ยง 86.082-2. The average temperature of the dispensed fuel shall be less than 60 &#xB0;F.

(E) Conduct a heat build according to the procedure specified in ยง 86.133-90.

(F) The vehicle shall be placed, either by being driven or pushed, on a dynamometer and operated through one UDDS, specified in ยง 86.115 and appendix I of this part.

(G) Following the dynamometer drive, the vehicle shall be turned off for 5 minutes, then restarted and allowed to idle for 1 minute. The vehicle shall then be turned off for 1 minute, and allowed to idle again for 1 minute.

(H) After the vehicle is turned off the last time, it may be tested for evaporative and exhaust emissions, starting with paragraph (a) of this section.
