
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.132-96 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### Gaseous-Fueled Vehicles.

(2)Vehicle fuel tanks to be filled with fuel that meets the specifications in ยง 86.113. Fuel tanks shall be filled to a minimum of 75% of service pressure for natural gas-fueled vehicles or a minimum of 75% of available fill volume for liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles. Prior draining of the fuel tanks is not called for if the fuel in the tanks already meets the specifications in ยง 86.113.

(c)(1) Gasoline- and methanol-fueled vehicles shall be soaked for at least 6 hours after being refueled. Petroleum-fueled diesel vehicles and gaseous-fueled vehicles shall be soaked for at least 1 hour after being refueled. Following this soak period, the test vehicle shall be placed, either by being driven or pushed, on a dynamometer and operated through one Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (UDDS), specified in ยง 86.115 and appendix I of this part.

(2) Once a test vehicle has completed the refueling and vehicle soak steps specified in paragraphs (b) and (c)(1) of this section, these steps may be omitted in subsequent testing with the same vehicle and the same fuel specifications, provided the vehicle remains under laboratory ambient temperature conditions for at least 6 hours before starting the next test. In such cases, each subsequent test shall begin with the preconditioning drive specified in this paragraph. The test vehicle may not be used to set dynamometer horsepower.

(d) For unusual circumstances where the need for additional preconditioning is demonstrated by the manufacturer, such preconditioning may be allowed with the advance approval of the Administrator.

(e) The Administrator may also choose to conduct or require to be conducted additional preconditioning to ensure that the evaporative emission control system is stabilized in the case of gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled vehicles, or to ensure that the exhaust system is stabilized in the case of petroleum- and methanol-fueled diesel vehicles. The preconditioning shall consist of one of the following:
