
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.132-00 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### Aggressive Driving Test (US06) Preconditioning.

(n)(1) If the US06 test follows the exhaust emission FTP or evaporative testing, the refueling step may be deleted and the vehicle may be preconditioned using the fuel remaining in the tank (see paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section). The test vehicle may be pushed or driven onto the test dynamometer. Acceptable cycles for preconditioning are as follows:

(i) Preconditioning may consist of a 505, 866, highway, US06 or SC03 test cycles.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) If a manufacturer has concerns about fuel effects on adaptive memory systems, a manufacturer may precondition a test vehicle on test fuel and the US06 cycle. Upon request from a manufacturer, the administrator will also perform the preconditioning with the US06 cycle.

(iv) The preconditioning cycles for the US06 test schedule are conducted at the same ambient test conditions as the certification US06 test.

(2) Following the preconditioning specified in paragraphs (n)(1)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section, the test vehicle is returned to idle for one to two minutes before the start of the official US06 test cycle.
