
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.132-00 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### Air Conditioning Test (SC03) Preconditioning.

(o)(1) If the SC03 test follows the exhaust emission FTP or evaporative testing, the refueling step may be deleted and the vehicle may be preconditioned using the fuel remaining in the tank (see paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section). The test vehicle may be pushed or driven onto the test dynamometer. Acceptable cycles for preconditioning are as follows:

(i) If the soak period since the last exhaust test element is less than or equal to two hours, preconditioning may consist of a 505, 866, or SC03 test cycles.

(ii) If the soak period since the last exhaust test element is greater than two hours, preconditioning consists of one full Urban Dynamometer Driving Cycle. Manufacturers, at their option, may elect to use the preconditioning in paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section when the soak period exceeds two hours.

(2) Following the preconditioning specified in paragraphs (o)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section, the test vehicle is turned off, the vehicle cooling fan(s) is turned off, and the vehicle is allowed to soak for 10 minutes prior to the start of the official SC03 test cycle.

(3) The preconditioning cycles for the SC03 air conditioning test and the 10 minute soak are conducted at the same ambient test conditions as the SC03 certification air conditioning test.
