
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.134-96 Running loss test.
####### Engine starting and restarting.

(d)(1) Provisions of § 86.136-90(a) shall apply.

(2) If the vehicle does not start after the manufacturer's recommended cranking time (or 10 continuous seconds in the absence of a manufacturer's recommendation), cranking shall cease for the period recommended by the manufacturer (or 10 seconds in the absence of a manufacturer's recommendation). This may be repeated for up to three start attempts. If the vehicle does not start after three attempts, the reason for failure to start shall be determined. If failure to start is an operational error, the vehicle shall be rescheduled for testing, starting with the soak period immediately preceding the running loss test.

(3) If failure to start is caused by a vehicle malfunction, corrective action of less than 30 minutes duration may be taken (according to § 86.090-25), and the test continued, provided that the ambient conditions to which the vehicle is exposed are maintained at 95+/-5 &#xB0;F (35+/-3 &#xB0;C). When the engine starts, the timing sequence of the driving schedule shall begin. If failure to start is caused by vehicle malfunction and the vehicle cannot be started, the test shall be voided, the vehicle removed from the dynamometer, and corrective action may be taken according to § 86.090-25. The reason for the malfunction (if determined) and the corrective action taken shall be reported to the Administrator.

(4) Provisions of § 86.136-90(e) shall apply.
