
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.132-96 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### Load with repeated diurnal heat builds to breakthrough.

(2)The following procedure provides for emission measurement in an enclosure. Breakthrough may also be determined by measuring the weight gain of an auxiliary evaporative canister connected downstream of the vehicle's canister, in which case, the following references to the enclosure can be ignored. The auxiliary canister shall be well purged with dry air prior to loading.

(i) The evaporative emission enclosure shall be purged for several minutes.If at any time the concentration of hydrocarbons, of methanol, or of methanol and hydrocarbons exceeds 15,000 ppm C the enclosure should be immediately purged. This concentration provides at least a 4:1 safety factor against the lean flammability limit.

(ii) The FID hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the diurnal heat builds.

(iii) If not already on, the evaporative enclosure mixing fan shall be turned on at this time.

(iv) The fuel tank(s) of the prepared vehicle shall be drained and filled with test fuel, as specified in § 86.113, to the "tank fuel volume" defined in § 86.082-2. The average temperature of the dispensed fuel shall be 60+/-12 &#xB0;F (16+/-7 &#xB0;C). The fuel tank cap(s) shall be installed within 1 minute after refueling.

(v) Within one hour of being refueled, the vehicle shall be placed, with the engine shut off, in the evaporative emission enclosure. The fuel tank temperature sensor shall be connected to the temperature recording system. A heat source, specified in § 86.107-90(a)(4), shall be properly positioned with respect to the fuel tank(s) and connected to the temperature controller.

(vi) The temperature recording system shall be started.

(vii) The fuel may be artificially heated to the starting diurnal temperature.

(viii) When the fuel temperature reaches at least 69 &#xB0;F (21 &#xB0;C), immediately: turn off purge blower (if not already off); close and seal enclosure doors; and initiate measurement of the hydrocarbon level in the enclosure.

(ix) When the fuel temperature reaches 72+/-2 &#xB0;F (22+/-1 &#xB0;C), start the diurnal heat build.

(x) The fuel shall be heated in such a way that its temperature change conforms to the following function to within +/-4 &#xB0;F (+/-3 &#xB0;C):

(xi) As soon as breakthrough occurs or when the fuel temperature reaches 96 &#xB0;F (36 &#xB0;C), whichever occurs first, the heat source shall be turned off, the enclosure doors shall be unsealed and opened, and the vehicle fuel tank cap(s) shall be removed. If breakthrough has not occurred by the time the fuel temperature reaches 96 &#xB0;F (36 &#xB0;C), the heat source shall be removed from the vehicle, the vehicle shall be removed (with engine still off) from the evaporative emission enclosure and the entire procedure outlined in paragraph (j)(2) of this section shall be repeated until breakthrough occurs.

(xii) After breakthrough occurs, the fuel tank(s) of the prepared vehicle shall be drained and filled with test fuel, as specified in § 86.113, to the "tank fuel volume" defined in § 86.082-2. The fuel shall be stabilized to a temperature within 3 &#xB0;F of the lab ambient before beginning the driving cycle for the exhaust emission test.

(k) [Reserved]

(l) Vehicles to be tested for exhaust emissions only shall be processed according to §§ 86.135 through 86.137. Vehicles to be tested for evaporative emissions shall be processed in accordance with the procedures in §§ 86.133 through 86.138, starting with § 86.135.

(m) Vehicles to be tested for evaporative emissions with the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence described in § 86.130-96, shall proceed according to §§ 86.135 through 86.137, followed by the supplemental hot soak test (see § 86.138-96(k)) and the supplemental diurnal emission test (see § 86.133-96(p)).

(n) With prior approval of the Administrator, manufacturers may use an alternative canister loading method in lieu of the applicable canister loading method described in the provisions of paragraphs (h), (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section, provided the alternative method is shown to be equivalent or result in a more fully loaded canister (a canister that has adsorbed an equal or greater amount of hydrocarbon vapors) than the applicable canister loading method required by the provisions of paragraphs (h), (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section. Additionally, the Administrator may conduct confirmatory certification testing and in-use testing using the alternative canister loading method used by the manufacturer to test applicable certification and/or in-use vehicles or the appropriate method outlined in the provisions of paragraphs (h), (j)(1) and (j)(2) of this section.
