
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.134-96 Running loss test.
####### Dynamometer operation.

(c)(1) The exhaust from the vehicle must be routed outside the test cell or enclosure. Exhaust gases may, but need not, be collected and sampled.

(2) Provisions of § 86.135-90(c) shall apply.

(3) Practice runs over the prescribed driving schedule may not be performed at test point.

(4) Provisions of § 86.135-90 (e) and (f) shall apply.

(5) If the dynamometer horsepower must be adjusted manually, it shall be set within 1 hour prior to the running loss test phase. The test vehicle shall not be used to make this adjustment. Dynamometers using automatic control of preselectable power settings may be set any time prior to the beginning of the emissions test.

(6) Dynamometer roll or shaft revolutions shall be used to determine the actual driving distance for the running loss test, D, required in § 86.143. The revolutions shall be measured on the same roll or shaft used for measuring the vehicle's speed.

(7) Provisions of § 86.135-90(i) shall apply.

(8) The test run may be stopped if a warning light or gauge indicates that the vehicle's engine coolant has overheated.
