
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix M to Part 50 [Reserved]
####### Sample period.

3.3The required sample period for PMconcentration measurements by this method shall be at least 1,380 minutes but not more than 1,500 minutes (23 to 25 hours), and the start times of the PMand PMsamples are within 10 minutes and the stop times of the samples are also within 10 minutes (see section 10.4 of this appendix).

4.1 Because the size, density, and volatility of the particles making up ambient particulate matter vary over wide ranges and the mass concentration of particles varies with particle size, it is difficult to define the accuracy of PMmeasurements in an absolute sense. Furthermore, generation of credible PMconcentration standards at field monitoring sites and presenting or introducing such standards reliably to samplers or monitors to assess accuracy is still generally impractical. The accuracy of PMmeasurements is therefore defined in a relative sense as bias, referenced to measurements provided by other reference method samplers or based on flow rate verification audits or checks, or on other performance evaluation procedures.

4.2 Measurement system bias for monitoring data is assessed according to the procedures and schedule set forth in part 58, appendix A of this chapter. The goal for the measurement uncertainty (as bias) for monitoring data is defined in part 58, appendix A of this chapter as an upper 95 percent confidence limit for the absolute bias of 15 percent. Reference 1 in section 13 of this appendix provides additional information and guidance on flow rate accuracy audits and assessment of bias.

5.1 Tests to establish initial measurement precision for each sampler of the reference method sampler pair are specified as a part of the requirements for designation as a reference method under part 53 of this chapter.

5.2 Measurement system precision is assessed according to the procedures and schedule set forth in appendix A to part 58 of this chapter. The goal for acceptable measurement uncertainty, as precision, of monitoring data is defined in part 58, appendix A of this chapter as an upper 95 percent confidence limit for the coefficient of variation (CV) of 15 percent. Reference 1 in section 13 of this appendix provides additional information and guidance on this requirement.
