
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.132-96 Vehicle preconditioning.
####### Butane loading to breakthrough.

(1)The following procedure provides for emission measurement in an enclosure. Breakthrough may also be determined by measuring the weight gain of an auxiliary evaporative canister connected downstream of the vehicle's canister, in which case, the following references to the enclosure can be ignored. The auxiliary canister shall be well purged prior to loading. If production evaporative canisters are equipped with a functional service port designed for vapor load or purge steps, the service port shall be used during testing to precondition the canister.

(i) Prepare the evaporative/refueling emission canister for the canister loading operation. The canister shall not be removed from the vehicle, unless access to the canister in its normal location is so restricted that purging and loading can only reasonably be accomplished by removing the canister from the vehicle. Special care shall be taken during this step to avoid damage to the components and the integrity of the fuel system. A replacement canister may be temporarily installed during the soak period while the canister from the test vehicle is preconditioned.

(ii) The evaporative emission enclosure shall be purged for several minutes. Warning: If at any time the concentration of hydrocarbons, of methanol, or of methanol and hydrocarbons exceeds 15,000 ppm C the enclosure should be immediately purged. This concentration provides at least a 4:1 safety factor against the lean flammability limit.

(iii) The FID hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the canister loading procedure.

(iv) If not already on, the evaporative enclosure mixing fan shall be turned on at this time.

(v) Place the vehicle in a sealed enclosure and measure emissions with a FID.

(vi)(A) For gasoline-fueled vehicles, load the canister with a mixture composed of 50 percent butane and 50 percent nitrogen by volume at a rate of 40 grams butane per hour.

(B) For methanol-fueled and flexible-fueled vehicles, canister preconditioning shall be performed with a fuel vapor composition representative of that which the vehicle would generate with the fuel mixture used for the current test. Manufacturers shall develop a procedure to precondition the evaporative canister, if the vehicle is so equipped, for the different fuel.

(vii) As soon as the canister reaches breakthrough, the vapor source shall be shut off.

(viii) Reconnect the evaporative/refueling emission canister and restore the vehicle to its normal operating condition.
