
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.134-96 Running loss test.
####### Enclosure method.

(1)(i) The running loss enclosure shall be purged for several minutes immediately prior to the test.If at any time the concentration of hydrocarbons, of methanol, or of methanol and hydrocarbons exceeds 15,000 ppm C the enclosure should be immediately purged. This concentration provides at least a 4:1 safety factor against the lean flammability limit.

(ii) The FID hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the test.

(iii) If not already on, the running loss enclosure mixing fan(s) shall be turned on at this time. Throughout the test, the mixing fan(s) shall circulate the air at a rate of at least 1.0 cfm per cubic foot of ambient volume.

(iv) The test vehicle, with the engine off, shall be moved onto the dynamometer in the running loss enclosure. The vehicle engine compartment cover shall be unlatched, but closed as much as possible, allowing for the air intake equipment specified in paragraph (g)(1)(vii) of this section. The vehicle engine compartment cover may be closed if alternate routing is found for the air intake equipment. Any windows, doors, and luggage compartments shall be closed. A window may be opened to direct cooling air into the passenger compartment of the vehicle, if the vehicle is not equipped with its own air conditioning.

(v) Fans shall be positioned as described in §§ 86.107-96 (d) and (h).

(vi) Set vehicle air conditioning controls as described in 40 CFR 1066.835.

(vii) Connect the air intake equipment to the vehicle, if applicable. This connection shall be made to minimize leakage.

(viii) The temperature and pressure recording systems shall be started. Measurement of vapor temperature is optional during the running loss test. If vapor temperature is not measured, fuel tank pressure need not be measured.

(ix) Turn off purge blowers (if not already off).

(x) The temperature of the liquid fuel shall be monitored and recorded at least every 15 seconds with the temperature recording system specified in § 86.107-96(e).

(xi) Close and seal the enclosure doors.

(xii) When the ambient temperature is 95+/-5 &#xB0;F (35+/-3 &#xB0;C) and the fuel has been stabilized according to paragraph (f) of this section, the running loss test may begin. Measure the initial ambient temperature and pressure.

(A) Analyze enclosure atmosphere for hydrocarbons and record. This is the initial (time = 0 minutes) hydrocarbon concentration, C, required in § 86.143. Hydrocarbon emissions may be sampled continuously during the test period.

(B) Analyze the enclosure atmosphere for methanol, if applicable, and record. The methanol sampling must start simultaneously with the initiation of the hydrocarbon analysis and continue for 4.0+/-0.5 minutes. This is the initial (time = 0 minutes) methanol concentration, C, required in § 86.143. Record the time elapsed during this analysis. If the 4-minute sample period is inadequate to collect a sample of sufficient concentration to allow accurate GC analysis, rapidly collect the methanol sample in a bag and then bubble the bag sample through the impingers at the specified flow rate. The time elapsed between collection of the bag sample and flow through the impingers should be minimized to prevent any losses.

(xiii) Start the engine and begin operation of the vehicle over the drive cycle specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(xiv) The ambient temperature shall be maintained at 95+/-5 &#xB0;F (95+/-2 &#xB0;F on average) during the running loss test, measured at the inlet to the cooling fan in front of the vehicle; it shall be recorded at least every 60 seconds.

(xv) The fuel temperature during the dynamometer drive shall be controlled to match the fuel tank temperature profile determined in § 86.129. Measured fuel temperatures must be within +/-3 &#xB0;F of the target profile throughout the test run. Vapor temperatures, if measured, must be within +/-5 &#xB0;F of the target profile during the first 4186 seconds of the running loss test, and within +/-3 &#xB0;F for the remaining 120 seconds of the test run. For any vehicle complying with the test standards, vapor temperatures may be higher than the specified tolerances without invalidating test results. For testing by the Administrator, vapor temperatures may be lower than the specified tolerances without invalidating test results. If the test vehicle has more than one fuel tank, the temperatures for both fuel tanks shall follow the target profiles determined in § 86.129. The control system shall be tuned and operated to provide smooth and continuous tank temperature profiles that are representative of the on-road profiles.

(xvi) Fuel tank pressure must not exceed 10 inches of water during the running loss test, except that temporary exceedances are allowed for vehicles whose tank pressure remained below 10 inches of water during the entire outdoor driving period specified in § 86.129. These temporary pressure exceedances may not occur for more than 10 percent of the total driving time.

(xvii) The FID (or HFID) hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior the end of the test.

(xviii) Fresh impingers shall be installed in the methanol collection system immediately prior to the end of the test, if applicable.

(xix) The running loss test ends with the completion of the third 2-minute idle period.

(xx) At the end of the running loss test:

(A) Analyze the enclosure atmosphere for hydrocarbons and record. This is the final hydrocarbon concentration, C, required in § 86.143.

(B) Analyze the enclosure atmosphere for methanol, if applicable, and record. The methanol sampling must start prior to the end of the test and continue for 4.0+/-0.5 minutes. The methanol sampling must be completed within 2 minutes after the end of the running loss test. This is the final methanol concentration, C, required in § 86.143. Record the time elapsed during this analysis. If the 4-minute sample period is inadequate to collect a sample of sufficient concentration to allow accurate GC analysis, rapidly collect the methanol sample in a bag and then bubble the bag sample through the impingers at the specified flow rate. The time elapsed between collection of the bag sample and flow through the impingers should be minimized to prevent any losses.

(C) Turn off all the fans specified in § 86.107-96(d). Also, the time that the vehicle's engine compartment cover is open for removal of air intake equipment, if applicable, shall be minimized to avoid loss of heat from the engine compartment.

(xxi) Turn off any CVS apparatus (if not already turned off).
