
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.134-96 Running loss test.
####### Point-source method.

(2)(i) The test vehicle, with the engine off, shall be moved onto the dynamometer. The vehicle engine compartment cover and any windows, doors, and luggage compartments shall be closed.

(ii) Fans shall be positioned as described in §§ 86.135-90(b) and 86.107-96(d).

(iii) The running loss vapor vent collection system shall be properly positioned at the potential fuel vapor vents or leaks of the vehicle's fuel system. Typical vapor vents for current fuel systems are the ports of the evaporative emission canister and the pressure relief vent of the fuel tank (typically integrated into the fuel tank cap).

(iv) The running loss vapor vent collection system may be connected to a PDP-CVS or CFV-CVS bag collection system. Otherwise, running loss vapors shall be sampled continuously with analyzers meeting the requirements of § 86.107-96(b).

(v) Fans shall be positioned as described in § 86.107-96(d).

(vi) Set vehicle air conditioning controls as described in 40 CFR 1066.835.

(vii) The temperature and pressure recording systems shall be started. Measurement of vapor temperature is optional during the running loss test. If vapor temperature is not measured, fuel tank pressure need not be measured.

(viii) The temperature of the liquid fuel shall be monitored and recorded at least every 15 seconds with the temperature recording system specified in § 86.107-96(e).

(ix) When the ambient temperature is 95+/-5 &#xB0;F (35+/-3 &#xB0;C) and the fuel tank temperature is 95+/-3 &#xB0;F the running loss test may begin.

(x) The ambient temperature shall be maintained at 95+/-5 &#xB0;F (95+/-2 &#xB0;F on average) during the running loss test, measured at the inlet to the cooling fan in front of the vehicle; it shall be recorded at least every 60 seconds.

(xi) Fuel temperatures shall be controlled according to the specifications of paragraph (g)(1)(xv) of this section.

(xii) The tank pressure requirements described in paragraph (g)(1)(xvi) of this section apply also to running loss testing by the point source method.

(xiii) The running loss test ends with completion of the third 2-minute idle period.

(xiv) If emissions are collected in bags, the sample bags must be analyzed within 20 minutes of their respective sample collection phases, as described in § 86.137-94(b)(15). The results of the analysis are used in § 86.143 to calculate the mass of hydrocarbons emitted.

(xv) At the end of the running loss test, turn off all the fans specified in § 86.107-96(d).

(3) With prior approval of the Administrator, manufacturers may use an alternative running loss test procedure, provided the alternative test procedure is shown to yield equivalent or superior emission results (in terms of quality control, accuracy and repeatability) for the running loss, hot soak and diurnal portions of the three diurnal-plus-hot-soak test sequence. Additionally, the Administrator may conduct certification and in-use testing using the test procedures outlined in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, paragraph (g)(2) of this section or the alternative running loss test procedure as approved for a specific vehicle.
