
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.136-90 Engine starting and restarting.
####### Diesel vehicles.

(b)The engine shall be started according to the manufacturers recommended starting procedures in the owners manual. The initial 20-second idle period shall begin when the engine starts. The transmission shall be placed in gear 15 seconds after the engine is started. If necessary, braking may be employed to keep the drive wheels from turning.

(c) If the vehicle does not start after the manufacturer's recommended cranking time (or 10 continuous seconds in the absence of a manufacturer's recommendation), cranking shall cease for the period recommended by the manufacturer (or 10 seconds in the absence of a manufacturer's recommendation). This may be repeated for up to three start attempts. If the vehicle does not start after three attempts, the reason for failure to start shall be determined. The gas flow measuring device on the constant volume sampler (usually a revolution counter) or CFV (and the hydrocarbon integrator and particulate sampling system when testing petroleum-fueled diesel vehicles and the particulate sampling system when testing methanol-fueled diesel vehicles, see ยง 86.137) shall be turned off and the sampler selector valves, including the methanol sampler, placed in the "standby" position during this diagnostic period. In addition, either the CVS should be turned off, or the exhaust tube disconnected from the tailpipe during the diagnostic period. If failure to start is an operational error, the vehicle shall be rescheduled for testing from a cold start.

(d) If the engine "false starts" the operator shall repeat the recommended starting procedure (such as resetting the choke, etc.).
