
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.135-90 Dynamometer procedure.
####### vs.

(c) The vehicle speed as measured from the dynamometer rolls shall be used. A speedtime recording, as evidence of dynamometer test validity, shall be supplied on request of the Administrator.

(d) Practice runs over the prescribed driving schedule may be performed at test point, provided an emission sample is not taken, for the purpose of finding the appropriate throttle action to maintain the proper speed-time relationship, or to permit sampling system adjustment. Both smoothing of speed variations and excessive accelerator pedal perturbations are to be avoided. When using two-roll dynamometers a truer speed-time trace may be obtained by minimizing the rocking of the vehicle in the rolls; the rocking of the vehicle changes the tire rolling radius on each roll. This rocking may be minimized by restraining the vehicle horizontally (or nearly so) by using a cable and winch.

(e) The drive wheel tires may be inflated up to a gauge pressure of 45 psi (310 kPa) in order to prevent tire damage. The drive wheel tire pressure shall be reported with the test results.

(f) lf the dynamometer has not been operated during the 2-hour period immediately preceding the test, it shall be warmed up for 15 minutes by operating at 30 mph (48 kph) using a non-test vehicle or as recommended by the dynamometer manufacturer.

(g) If the dynamometer horsepower must be adjusted manually, it shall be set within 1 hour prior to the exhaust emissions test phase. The test vehicle shall not be used to make this adjustment. Dynamometers using automatic control of preselectable power settings may be set anytime prior to the beginning of the emissions test.

(h) The driving distance, as measured by counting the number of dynamometer roll or shaft revolutions, shall be determined for the transient cold start, stabilized cold start, and transient hot start phases of the test. The revolutions shall be measured on the same roll or shaft used for measuring the vehicle's speed.

(i) Four-wheel drive and all-wheel drive vehicles may be tested either in a four-wheel drive or a two-wheel drive mode of operation. In order to test in the two-wheel drive mode, four-wheel drive and all-wheel drive vehicles may have one set of drive wheels disengaged; four-wheel and all-wheel drive vehicles which can be shifted to a two-wheel mode by the driver may be tested in a two-wheel drive mode of operation.
