
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 50 - NATIONAL PRIMARY AND SECONDARY AMBIENT AIR QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Appendix M to Part 50 [Reserved]
####### Sampler.

7The PMsampler shall consist of a PMsampler and a PMsampler, as follows:

7.1 The PMsampler shall be as specified in section 7 of appendix L to this part.

7.2 The PMsampler shall be of like manufacturer, design, configuration, and fabrication to that of the PMsampler and as specified in section 7 of appendix L to this part, except as follows:

7.2.1 The particle size separator specified in section 7.3.4 of appendix L to this part shall be eliminated and replaced by a downtube extension fabricated as specified in Figure O-1 of this appendix.

7.2.2 The sampler shall be identified as a PMsampler on its identification label required under ยง 53.9(d) of this chapter.

7.2.3 The average temperature and average barometric pressure measured by the sampler during the sample period, as described in Table L-1 of appendix L to this part, need not be reported to EPA's AQS data base, as required by section 7.4.19 and Table L-1 of appendix L to this part, provided such measurements for the sample period determined by the associated PMsampler are reported as required.

7.3 In addition to the operation/instruction manual required by section 7.4.18 of appendix L to this part for each sampler, supplemental operational instructions shall be provided for the simultaneous operation of the samplers as a pair to collect concurrent PMand PMsamples. The supplemental instructions shall cover any special procedures or guidance for installation and setup of the samplers for PMmeasurements, such as synchronization of the samplers' clocks or timers, proper programming for collection of concurrent samples, and any other pertinent issues related to the simultaneous, coordinated operation of the two samplers.

7.4 Capability for electrical interconnection of the samplers to simplify sample period programming and further ensure simultaneous operation is encouraged but not required. Any such capability for interconnection shall not supplant each sampler's capability to operate independently, as required by section 7 of appendix L of this part.

8.1 Conditioning and weighing for both PMand PMsample filters shall be as specified in section 8 of appendix L to this part. See reference 1 of section 13 of this appendix for additional, more detailed guidance.

8.2 Handling, conditioning, and weighing for both PMand PMsample filters shall be matched such that the corresponding PMand PMfilters of each filter pair receive uniform treatment. The PMand PMsample filters should be weighed on the same balance, preferably in the same weighing session and by the same analyst.

8.3 Due care shall be exercised to accurately maintain the paired relationship of each set of concurrently collected PMc and PMsample filters and their net weight gain data and to avoid misidentification or reversal of the filter samples or weight data. See Reference 1 of section 13 of this appendix for additional guidance.
