
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.142-90 Records required.
####### Additional required records for methanol-fueled vehicles.

(p)(1) Specification of the methanol-fuel or methanol-fuel mixtures used during the test.

(2) Volume of sample passed through the methanol sampling system and the volume of deionized water in each impinger.

(3) The concentration of the GC analyses of the test samples (methanol).

(4) Volume of sample passed through the formaldehyde sampling system and the volume of DNPH solution used.

(5) The concentration of the HPLC analysis of the test sample (formaldehyde).

(6) The temperatures of the sample lines before the HFID and the impinger, the temperature of the exhaust transfer duct (as applicable), and the temperature of the control system of the heated hydrocarbon detector.

(7) A continuous measurement of the dew point of the raw and diluted exhaust. This requirement may be omitted if the temperatures of all heated lines are kept above 220 &#xB0;F, or if the manufacturer performs an engineering analysis demonstrating that the temperature of the heated systems remains above the maximum dew point of the gas stream throughout the course of the test.
