
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.144-94 Calculations; exhaust emissions.

The final reported test results shall be computed by use of the following formula:

(a) For light-duty vehicles and light duty trucks:

(1) Y= Weighted mass emissions of each pollutant, i.e., THC, CO, THCE, NMHC, NMHCE, CH, NO, or CO, in grams per vehicle mile.

(2) Y= Mass emissions as calculated from the "transient" phase of the cold start test, in grams per test phase.

(3) Y= Mass emissions as calculated from the "transient" phase of the hot start test, in grams per test phase.

(4) Y= Mass emissions as calculated from the "stabilized" phase of the cold start test, in grams per test phase.

(5) D= The measured driving distance from the "transient" phase of the cold start test, in miles.

(6) D= The measured distance from the "transient" phase of the hot start test, in miles.

(7) D= The measured driving distance from the "stabilized" phase of the cold start test, in miles.

(b) The mass of each pollutant for each phase of both the cold start test and the hot start test is determined from the following:

(1) Total hydrocarbon mass:

(2) Oxides of nitrogen mass:

(3) Carbon monoxide mass:

(4) Carbon dioxide mass:

(5) Methanol mass:

(6) Formaldehyde mass:

(7) Total hydrocarbon equivalent mass:

(8) Non-methane hydrocarbon mass:

(9) Non-methane hydrocarbon equivalent mass:

(10) Methane mass:

(11) Nitrous Oxide Mass:

(c) Meaning of symbols:

(1)(i) HC= Total hydrocarbon emissions, in grams per test phase.

(ii) Density= Density of total hydrocarbon.
