
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.144-94 Calculations; exhaust emissions.
####### For natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas-fuel;

(B)Density= 1.1771 (12.011 + H/C (1.008)) g/ft-carbon atom (0.04157(12.011 + H/C (1.008))kg/m-carbon atom), where H/C is the hydrogen to carbon ratio of the hydrocarbon components of the test fuel, at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 760 mm Hg (101.3 kPa) pressure.

(iii)(A) HC= Total hydrocarbon concentration of the dilute exhaust sample corrected for background, in ppm carbon equivalent, i.e., equivalent propane x 3.

(B) HC= HC-HC(1-1/DF).

(iv)(A) HC= Total hydrocarbon concentration of the dilute exhaust sample or, for diesel-cycle (or methanol-fueled vehicles, if selected), average hydrocarbon concentration of the dilute exhaust sample as calculated from the integrated THC traces, in ppm carbon equivalent.

(B) HC= FID HC-(r)COHe.

(v) FID HC= Concentration of total hydrocarbon plus methanol in dilute exhaust as measured by the FID, ppm carbon equivalent.

(vi) r = FID response to methanol.

(vii) COHe = Concentration of methanol in dilute exhaust as determined from the dilute exhaust methanol sample in ppm carbon. For vehicles not fueled with methanol, COHe equals zero.

(viii)(A) HC= Total hydrocarbon concentration of the dilution air as measured, in ppm carbon equivalent.

(B) HC= FID HC-(r)COHd.

(ix) FID HC= Concentration of total hydrocarbon plus methanol in dilution air as measured by the FID, ppm carbon equivalent.

(x) COHd = Concentration of methanol in dilution air as determined from dilution air methanol sample in ppm carbon. For vehicles not fueled with methanol, COHd equals zero.

(2)(i) NOx= Oxides of nitrogen emissions, in grams per test phase.

(ii) Density= Density of oxides of nitrogen is 54.16 g/ft3 (1.913 kg/m) assuming they are in the form of nitrogen dioxide, at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 760 mm Hg (101.3kPa) pressure.

(iii)(A) NOx= Oxides of nitrogen concentration of the dilute exhaust sample corrected for background, in ppm.

(B) NOx= NOx-NOx(1-(1/DF)).

(iv) NOx= Oxides of nitrogen concentration of the dilute exhaust sample as measured, in ppm.

(v) NOx= Oxides of nitrogen concentration of the dilution air as measured, in ppm.

(3)(i) CO= Carbon monoxide emissions, in grams per test phase.

(ii) Density= Density of carbon monoxide is 32.97 g/ft(1.164 kg/m3), at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 760 mm Hg (101.3 kPa) pressure.

(iii)(A) CO= Carbon monoxide concentration of the dilute exhaust sample corrected for background, water vapor, and COextraction, in ppm.

(B) CO= CO- CO(1 - (1/DF)).

(iv)(A) CO= Carbon monoxide concentration of the dilute exhaust volume corrected for water vapor and carbon dioxide extraction, in ppm.

(B) CO= (1 - 0.01925CO-0.000323R)COfor petroleum fuel with hydrogen to carbon ratio of 1.85:1.

(C) CO= [1-(0.01 + 0.005HCR) CO-0.000323R]COfor methanol-fuel or natural gas-fuel or liquefied petroleum gas-fuel, where HCR is hydrogen-to-carbon ratio as measured for the fuel used.

(v) CO= Carbon monoxide concentration of the dilute exhaust sample as measured, in ppm.

(vi) CO= Carbon dioxide concentration of the dilute exhaust sample, in percent.

(vii) R = Relative humidity of the dilution air, in percent (see § 86.142(n)).

(viii)(A) CO= Carbon monoxide concentration of the dilution air corrected for water vapor extraction, in ppm.

(B) CO= (1-0.000323R)CO.

(ix) CO= Carbon monoxide concentration of the dilution air sample as measured, in ppm.

(4)(i) CO= Carbon dioxide emissions, in grams per test phase.

(ii) Density CO= Density of carbon dioxide is 51.81 g/ft(1.830 kg/m), at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 760 mm Hg (101.3 kPa) pressure.

(iii)(A) CO= Carbon dioxide concentration of the dilute exhaust sample corrected for background, in percent.

(B) CO= CO- CO(1 - (1/DF)). Where:

(iv) CO= Carbon dioxide concentration of the dilution air as measured, in percent.

(5)(i) CHOH= Methanol emissions corrected for background, in grams per test phase.

(ii) Density= Density of methanol is 37.71 g/ft-carbon atom (1.332 kg/m-carbon atom), at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 760 mm Hg (101.3 kPa) pressure.

(iii)(A) CHOH= Methanol concentration of the dilute exhaust corrected for background, ppm.

(B) CHOH= C- C(1 - (1/DF)).

(iv)(A) C= Methanol concentration in the dilute exhaust, ppm.

(B)

(v)(A) C= Methanol concentration in the dilution air, ppm.

(B)

(vi) T= Temperature of methanol sample withdrawn from dilute exhaust, &#xB0;R.

(vii) T= Temperature of methanol sample withdrawn from dilution air, &#xB0;R.

(viii) P= Barometric pressure during test, mm Hg.

(ix) V= Volume of methanol sample withdrawn from dilute exhaust, ft.

(x) V= Volume of methanol sample withdrawn from dilution air, ft.

(xi) C= GC concentration of sample drawn from dilute exhaust, µg/ml.

(xii) C= GC concentration of sample drawn from dilution air, µg/ml.

(xiii) AVS = Volume of absorbing reagent (deionized water) in impinger through which methanol sample from dilute exhaust is drawn, ml.

(xiv) AVD = Volume of absorbing reagent (deionized water) in impinger through which methanol sample from dilution air is drawn, ml.

(xv) 1 = first impinger.

(xvi) 2 = second impinger.

(xvii) 1 = first impinger.

(xviii) 2 = second impinger.

(6)(i) HCHO= Formaldehyde emissions corrected for background, in grams per test phase.

(ii) Density= Density of formaldehyde is 35.36 g/ft- carbon atom (1.249 kg/m-carbon atom), at 68 &#xB0;F (20 &#xB0;C) and 760 mm Hg (101.3 kPa) pressure.

(iii)(A) HCHO= Formaldehyde concentration of the dilute exhaust corrected for background, in ppm.

(B) HCHO= C- C(1 - (1/DF)).

(iv)(A) C= Formaldehyde concentration in dilute exhaust, in ppm.

(B)

(v)(A) C= Formaldehyde concentration in dilution air in ppm.

(B)

(vi) C= Concentration of DNPH derivative of formaldehyde from dilute exhaust sample in sampling solution, µg/ml.

(vii) V= Volume of sampling solution for dilute exhaust formaldehyde sample, ml.

(viii)(A) Q = Ratio of molecular weights of formaldehyde to its DNPH derivative.

(B) Q = 0.1429.

(ix) T= Temperature of formaldehyde sample withdrawn from dilute exhaust, &#xB0;R.

(x) V= Volume of formaldehyde sample withdrawn from dilute exhaust, ft.

(xi) P= Barometric pressure during test, mm Hg.

(xii) C= Concentration of DNPH derivative of formaldehyde from dilution air sample in sampling solution, µg/ml.

(xiii) V= Volume of sampling solution for dilution air formaldehyde sample, ml.

(xiv) T= Temperature of formaldehyde sample withdrawn from dilution air, &#xB0;R.

(xv) V= Volume of formaldehyde sample withdrawn from dilution air, ft.

(7)(i) DF = 13.4/[CO+ (HC+ CO) 10] for petroleum-fueled vehicles.

(ii) For methanol-fueled vehicles, where fuel composition is CHOas measured, or calculated, for the fuel used:

(iii)

(iv)(A) K= Humidity correction factor.

(B) K= 1/[1-0.0047(H-75)].
