
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.145-82 Calculations; particulate emissions.

(a) The final reported test results for the mass particulate (M) in grams/mile shall be computed as follows.

(1) M= Mass of particulate determined from the "transient" phase of the cold start test, in grams per test phase. (See § 86.110-82(c)(1) for determination.)

(2) M= Mass of particulate determined from the "stabilized" phase of the cold start test, in grams per test phase. (See § 86.110-82(c)(1) for determination.)

(3) M= Mass of particulate determined from the "transient" phase of the hot start test, in grams per test phase. (See § 86.110-82(c)(1) for determination).

(4) D= The measured driving distance from the "transient" phase of the cold start test, in miles.

(5) D= The measured driving distance from the "stabilized" phase of the cold start test, in miles.

(6) D= The measured driving distance from the "transient" phase of the hot start test, in miles.

(b) The mass of particulate for each phase of testing is determined as follows:

(1) j = 1, 2 or 3 depending on which phase the mass of particulate is being determined for (i.e., the "transient" phase of the cold start test, the "stabilized" phase of the cold start test, or the "transient" phase of the hot start test).

(2) V= Total dilute exhaust volume in cubic meters per test, corrected to standard conditions 528&#xB0;R (293K) and 29.92 in Hg (101.3 kPa). Vis further defined in § 86.144.
