
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.145-82 Calculations; particulate emissions.
####### P

(3)= mass of particulate per test on the exhaust filter(s), grams.

(4) P= mass of particulate on the "background" filter, grams.

(i) The background particulate level, P, inside the dilution air filter box at EPA is very low. Pwill be assumed = 0, and background particulate samples will not be taken with each exhaust sample. It is recommended that background particulate checks be made periodically to verify the low level.

(ii) Any manufacturer may make the same assumption without prior EPA approval.

(iii) If Pis assumed = 0, then no background correction is made. The equation for particulate mass emissions then reduces to:

(6) V= total volume of sample pulled through the filter, cubic feet at standard conditions.

(i) V= corrected (according to procedure specified in ยง 85.120) dilute exhaust sample volume, cubic feet.

(ii) P= barometric pressure, in Hg.

(iii) P= pressure elevation above ambient measured at the inlet to the dilute exhaust sample gas meter or flow instrument, in Hg. (For most gas meters with unrestricted discharge Pis negligible and can be assumed = 0.)

(iv) T= average temperature of the dilute exhaust sample at the inlet to the gas meter or flow instrument, &#xB0;R.

(7) V= total volume of the background sample, cubic feet at standard conditions. (Vis not required if Pis assumed = 0.) It is calculated using the following formula:

(i) V= corrected (according to procedure specified in ยง 85.120) background sample volume, cubic feet.

(ii) P= barometric pressure, in. Hg.

(iii) P= pressure elevation above ambient measured at the inlet to the background gas meter or flow instrument, in Hg. (For most gas meters with unrestricted discharge Pis negligible and can be assumed = 0.)

(iv) T= average temperature of the background sample at the inlet to the gas meter or flow instrument, &#xB0;R.

(8) DF = dilution factor. (DF is not required if Pis assumed = 0.)
