
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.153-98 Vehicle and canister preconditioning; refueling test.
####### Canister purging; integrated systems.

(c)(1) Vehicles to be tested for exhaust emissions only shall be processed according to §§ 86.135-94 through 86.137-96. Vehicles to be tested for refueling emissions shall be processed in accordance with the procedures in §§ 86.135-94 through 86.137-96, followed by the procedures outlined in paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(2) To provide additional opportunity for canister purge, conduct additional driving on a dynamometer, within one hour of completion of the hot start exhaust test, by operating the test vehicle through one UDDS, a 2 minute idle, two NYCCs, another 2 minute idle, another UDDS, then another 2 minute idle (see § 86.115-78 and appendix I of this part). Fifteen seconds after the engine starts, place the transmission in gear. Twenty seconds after the engine starts, begin the initial vehicle acceleration of the driving schedule. The transmission shall be operated according to the specifications of § 86.128-79 during the driving cycles. The vehicle's air conditioner (if so equipped) shall be turned off. Ambient temperature shall be controlled as specified in § 86.151-98. It is not necessary to monitor and/or control in-tank fuel temperatures.

(i) The fixed-speed fan specified in § 86.135-94(b) may be used for engine cooling. If a fixed-speed fan is used, the vehicle's hood shall be opened.

(ii) Alternatively, the roadspeed-modulated fan specified in § 86.107-96(d)(1) may be used for engine cooling. If a road-speed modulated fan is used, the vehicle's hood shall be closed.
