
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.153-98 Vehicle and canister preconditioning; refueling test.
####### Canister purging: non-integrated systems.

(d)Within one hour of completion of canister loading to breakthrough, the fuel tank(s) shall be further filled to 95 percent of nominal tank capacity determined to the nearest one-tenth of a U.S. gallon (0.38 liter) with the fuel specified in ยง 86.113-94. During this fueling operation, the refueling emissions canister(s) shall be disconnected, unless the manufacturer specifies that the canister(s) should not be disconnected. Following completion of refueling, the refueling emissions canister(s) shall be reconnected, if the canister was disconnected during refueling. Special care shall be taken during this step to avoid damage to the components and the integrity of the fuel system. Vehicle driving to purge the refueling canister(s) shall be performed using either the chassis dynamometer procedure or the test track procedure, as described in paragraphs (d)(1) and (d)(2) of this section. The Administrator may choose to shorten the vehicle driving for a partial refueling test as described in paragraph (d)(3) of this section. For vehicles equipped with dual fuel tanks, the required volume of fuel shall be driven out of one tank, the second tank shall be selected as the fuel source, and the required volume of fuel shall be driven out of the second tank.
