
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.154-98 Measurement procedure; refueling test.

(a) The refueling test measurement procedure described in this section immediately follows the vehicle and canister preconditioning described in ยง 86.153-98.

(b) The refueling emission enclosure shall be purged for several minutes immediately prior to the test. Warning: If at any time the concentration of hydrocarbons, of methanol, or of methanol and hydrocarbons exceeds 15,000 ppm C, the enclosure should be immediately purged. This concentration provides a 4:1 safety factor against the lean flammability limit.

(c)(1) The FID (or HFID) hydrocarbon analyzer, and additional analyzer, if needed, shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the test.

(2) For methanol-fueled vehicles only, impingers charged with known volumes of pure deionized water shall be placed in the methanol sampling system.

(d) If not already on, the enclosure mixing fan and the spilled fuel mixing blower shall be turned on at this time.

(e) The refueling emission measurement portion of the refueling test shall be performed as follows:

(1) The line from the fuel tank(s) to the refueling emissions canister(s) shall be connected.

(2) The test vehicle, with the engine shut off, shall be moved into the enclosure. The test vehicle windows and luggage compartment shall be opened if not already open.

(3) An electrical ground shall be attached to the vehicle. The vehicle fuel filler cap shall be removed and the enclosure door shall be closed and sealed within two minutes of cap removal. The FID (or HFID) trace shall be allowed to stabilize.

(4) The dispensed fuel temperature recording system shall be started.

(5)(i) Within 10 minutes of closing and sealing the doors, analyze enclosure atmosphere for hydrocarbons and record. This is the initial (time = 0 minutes) hydrocarbon concentration, C, required in ยง 86.143-96.

(ii) For methanol-fueled vehicles only, measure the initial concentration of methanol as described in ยง 86.133-96(i)(6).

(6) Within one minute of obtaining the initial FID (or HFID) reading, and methanol reading if applicable, the fuel nozzle shall be inserted into the filler neck of the test vehicle, to its maximum penetration, and the refueling operation shall be started. The plane of the nozzle's handle shall be approximately perpendicular to the floor of the laboratory. The fuel shall be dispensed at a temperature of 67+/-1.5 &#xB0;F (19.4+/-0.8 &#xB0;C) and at a dispensing rate of 9.8+/-0.3 gal/min (37.1+/-1.1 liter/min). In testing conducted by the Administrator, a lower dispensing rate (no lower than 4.0 gal/min (15.1 liter/min)) may be used.
