
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.153-98 Vehicle and canister preconditioning; refueling test.
####### Test track procedure.

(2)(i) Vehicle driving on a test track shall consist of repeated drives with the UDDS until 85 percent of fuel tank capacity has been consumed. Driving performed by manufacturers may be terminated before 85 percent of the fuel tank capacity has been consumed, provided that driving is not terminated partway through a UDDS cycle. Driving performed by the Administrator may be terminated after the same number of UDDS cycles as driven in the manufacturer's certification testing.

(ii) If the distance from the emission laboratory to the test track is less than 5 miles (8.05 km) the vehicle may be driven to the test track at a speed not to exceed 25 mph. If the distance is greater than 5 miles (8.05 km) the vehicle shall be moved to the test track with the engine off.

(iii) Except with the advance approval of the Administrator, the number of UDDSs required to consume 85 percent of tank fuel capacity (total capacity of both tanks when the vehicle is equipped with dual fuel tanks) shall be determined from the fuel economy on the UDDS applicable to the test vehicle and from the number of gallons to the nearest 0.1 gallon (0.38 liter) that constitutes 85 percent of tank volume. If this "fuel consumed point" occurs partway through a UDDS cycle, the cycle shall be completed in its entirety.

(iv) The vehicle shall be driven at a speed not to exceed 25 mph from the test track to the laboratory provided the distance from the test track to the laboratory does not exceed 5 miles (8.05 km). If the distance from the test track to the emission laboratory is greater than 5 miles (8.05 km) the vehicle shall be moved from the test track with the engine off.

(v) For vehicles equipped with dual fuel tanks, fuel switching from the first tank to the second tank shall occur at the 10 percent volume of the first tank regardless of the point in the UDDS cycle at which this occurs.

(vi) If necessary to accommodate work schedules, the engine may be turned off and the vehicle parked on the test track. The vehicle may be parked off of the test track to facilitate maintenance or repairs if required. If the vehicle is moved from the test track, it shall be returned to the track with the engine off when mileage accumulation is to be resumed.
