
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.157-98 Refueling test procedures for liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles.
####### Measurement procedure.

(d)(1) The steps prior to the actual refueling event described in § 86.154-98(b) through (e)(5) shall be performed.

(2) Within one minute of obtaining the initial FID (or HFID) reading, the dispensed fuel nozzle shall be attached to the vehicle fuel receptacle, and the refueling operation shall be started. If the vehicle is equipped with a fixed liquid level gauge or other gauge or valve which could be opened to release fuel or fuel vapor during refueling, and has not received an exemption as outlined in § 86.098-28(h), § 86.001-28(h) or § 86.004-28(h), the fixed level gauge or other gauges or valves shall be opened after the dispensing nozzle is attached, but prior to the start of the refueling operation. The dispensed fuel must be at a temperature stabilized to approximately the same temperature as the vehicle was in paragraph (c)(2) of this section. The dispensing rate must be typical of in-use dispensing rates for liquefied petroleum gas into light-duty vehicles and trucks.

(3) The fuel flow shall continue until the amount of fuel dispensed is at least 85 percent of nominal fuel tank capacity, determined to the nearest one-tenth of a U.S. gallon (0.38 liter).

(4) Following the fuel shut-off the fixed liquid level gauge or other gauges or valves, if open, shall be closed and the nozzle disconnected.

(5) The final reading of the evaporative enclosure FID (or HFID) analyzer shall be taken 60 +/-5 seconds following the disconnect of the refueling nozzle. This is the final hydrocarbon concentration, C, required in § 86.143. The elapsed time, in minutes, between the initial and final FID (or HFID) readings shall be recorded.

(6) For vehicles equipped with more than one fuel tank, the procedures described in this section shall be performed for each fuel tank.
