
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.157-98 Refueling test procedures for liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles.
####### Calculations.

(f)(1) The calculation of the net hydrocarbon mass change in the enclosure is used to determine refueling mass emissions. The mass is calculated from initial and final hydrocarbon concentrations in ppm carbon, initial and final enclosure ambient temperatures, initial and final barometric pressures and net volume using the equations of ยง 86.143. For vehicles with multiple tanks, the results for each tank shall be calculated and then summed to determine overall refueling emissions.

(2) The final results for comparison with the refueling control emission standard shall be computed by dividing the total refueling mass emissions by the total gallons of fuel dispensed in the refueling test (see paragraph (d)(3) of this section).

(3) The results of all emission tests shall be rounded, in accordance with ASTM E 29-67 to the number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard expressed to one additional significant figure. This procedure has been incorporated by reference (see ยง 86.1).
