
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.159-08 Exhaust emission test procedures for US06 emissions.
####### Overview.

(a)The dynamometer operation consists of a single, 600 second test on the US06 driving schedule, as described in appendix I, paragraph (g), of this part. The vehicle is preconditioned in accordance with ยง 86.132-00, to bring it to a warmed-up stabilized condition. This preconditioning is followed by a 1 to 2 minute idle period that proceeds directly into the US06 driving schedule during which continuous proportional samples of gaseous emissions are collected for analysis. US06 emissions may optionally be collected in two bag samples representing US06 City and US06 Highway emissions, as provided for in this section and in part 600 of this chapter. Emissions from seconds 0-130 and seconds 495-596 are collected in one bag to represent US06 City emissions, and emissions from seconds 130-495 are collected in a second bag to represent US06 Highway emissions. If engine stalling should occur during cycle operation, follow the provisions of ยง 86.136-90 (engine starting and restarting). For gasoline-fueled Otto-cycle vehicles, the composite samples collected in bags are analyzed for THC, CO, CO, CH, and NO. For petroleum-fueled diesel-cycle vehicles, THC is sampled and analyzed continuously according to the provisions of ยง 86.110. Parallel bag samples of dilution air are analyzed for THC, CO, CO, CH, and NO.
