
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.161-00 Air conditioning environmental test facility ambient requirements.
####### Radiant energy specifications.

(3)(i) Simulated solar radiant energy intensity is determined as an average of the two points measured at:

(A) Centerline of the test vehicle at the base of the windshield.

(B) Centerline of the vehicle at the base of the rear window (truck and van location defined as bottom of vertical window or where an optional window would be located).

(ii) The radiant energy intensity set point is 850 +/-45 watts/square meter.

(iii) The definition of an acceptable spectral distribution is contained in the following table:

(iv) The angle of incidence of radiant energy is defined as 90 degrees from the test cell floor.

(v) The requirements for measuring the uniformity of radiant energy are:

(A) The radiant energy uniformity tolerance is +/-15 percent of the radiant energy intensity set point of 850 watts/square meter.

(B) The uniformity of radiant energy intensity is measured at each point of a 0.5 meter grid over the entire footprint of the test vehicle at the elevation of one meter including the footprint edges.

(C) Radiant energy uniformity must be checked at least every 500 hours of emitter usage or every six months depending on which covers the shorter time period; and every time major changes in the solar simulation hardware occur.

(vi) The radiant energy intensity measurement instrument specifications (minimum) are:

(A) Sensitivity of 9 microvolts per watt/square meter;

(B) Response time of 1 second;

(C) Linearity of +/-0.5 percent; and

(D) Cosine of +/-1 percent from normalization 0-70 degree zenith angle.
