
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.164-00 Supplemental Federal Test Procedure calculations.

(a) The provisions of ยง 86.144-94 (b) and (c) are applicable to this section except that the NOhumidity correction factor of ยง 86.144-94(c)(7)(iv) must be modified when adjusting SC03 environmental test cell NOresults to 100 grains of water (see paragraph (d) of this section). These provisions provide the procedures for calculating mass emission results of each regulated exhaust pollutant for the test schedules of FTP, US06, and SC03.

(b) The provisions of ยง 86.144-94(a) are applicable to this section. These provisions provide the procedures for determining the weighted mass emissions for the FTP test schedule (Y).

(c)(1) When the test vehicle is equipped with air conditioning, the final reported test results for the SFTP composite (NMHC + NO) and optional composite CO standards shall be computed by the following formulas.

Where:

(A) Y= Mass emissions per mile for a particular pollutant weighted in terms of the contributions from the FTP, SC03, and US06 schedules. Values of Yare obtained for each of the exhaust emissions of NMHC, NO. and CO.

(B) Y= Weighted mass emissions per mile (Ywm) based on the measured driving distance of the FTP test schedule.

(C) Y= Calculated mass emissions per mile based on the measured driving distance of the SC03 test schedule.

(D) Y= Calculated mass emissions per mile based on the measured driving distance of the US06 test schedule.

(ii) Composite (NMHC = NO) + Y(NMHC) W(NO)

(A) Y(NMHC) = results of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for NMHC.

(B) Y(NO) = results of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for NO.

(2) When the test vehicle is not equipped with air conditioning, the relationship of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section is:

(i) Y= 0.72(Y) + 0.28(Y)

(A) Y= Mass emissions per mile for a particular pollutant weighted in terms of the contributions from the FTP and US06 schedules. Values of Yare obtained for each of the exhaust emissions of NMHC, NO. and CO.

(B) Y= Weighted mass emissions per mile (Ywm) based on the measured driving distance of the FTP test schedule.

(C) Y= Calculated mass emissions per mile based on the measured driving distance of the US06 test schedule.

(ii) Composite (NMHC + NO) = Y(NMHC) + Y(NO)

(A) Y(NMHC) = results of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for NMHC.

(B) Y(NO) = results of paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section for NO.

(d) The NOhumidity correction factor for adjusting NOtest results to the environmental test cell air conditioning ambient condition of 100 grains of water/pound of dry air is:
