
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.165-12 Air conditioning idle test procedure.
####### Test sequence.

(d)(1) Connect the vehicle exhaust system to the raw sampling location or dilution stage according to the provisions of this subpart. For dilution systems, dilute the exhaust as described in this subpart. Continuous sampling systems must meet the specifications provided in this subpart.

(2) Test the vehicle in a fully warmed-up condition. If the vehicle has soaked for two hours or less since the last exhaust test element, preconditioning may consist of a 505 Cycle, 866 Cycle, US06, or SC03, as these terms are defined in § 86.1803-01, or a highway fuel economy test procedure, as defined in § 600.002-08 of this chapter. For soak periods longer than two hours, precondition the vehicle using one full Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule. Ensure that the vehicle has stabilized at test cell ambient conditions such that the vehicle interior temperature is not substantially different from the external test cell temperature. Windows may be opened during preconditioning to achieve this stabilization.

(3) Immediately after the preconditioning, turn off any cooling fans, if present, close the vehicle's hood, fully close all the vehicle's windows, ensure that all the vehicle's air conditioning systems are set to full off, start the COsampling system, and then idle the vehicle for not less than 1 minute and not more than 5 minutes to achieve normal and stable idle operation.

(4) Measure and record the continuous COconcentration for 600 seconds. Measure the COconcentration continuously using raw or dilute sampling procedures. Multiply this concentration by the continuous (raw or dilute) flow rate at the emission sampling location to determine the COflow rate. Calculate the COcumulative flow rate continuously over the test interval. This cumulative value is the total mass of the emitted CO. Alternatively, COmay be measured and recorded using a constant velocity sampling system as described in §§ 86.106-96(a)(2) and 86.109.

(5) Within 60 seconds after completing the measurement described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section, turn on the vehicle's air conditioning system. Set automatic air conditioning systems to a temperature 9 &#xB0;F (5 &#xB0;C) below the ambient temperature of the test cell. Set manual air conditioning systems to maximum cooling with recirculation turned off, except that recirculation shall be enabled if the air conditioning system automatically defaults to a recirculation mode when set to maximum cooling. Continue idling the vehicle while measuring and recording the continuous COconcentration for 600 seconds as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section. Air conditioning systems with automatic temperature controls are finished with the test after this 600 second idle period. Manually controlled air conditioning systems must complete one additional idle period as described in paragraph (d)(6) of this section.

(6) This paragraph (d)(6) applies only to manually controlled air conditioning systems. Within 60 seconds after completing the measurement described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, leave the vehicle's air conditioning system on and set as described in paragraph (d)(5) of this section but set the fan speed to the lowest setting that continues to provide air flow. Recirculation shall be turned off except that if the system defaults to a recirculation mode when set to maximum cooling and maintains recirculation with the low fan speed, then recirculation shall continue to be enabled. After the fan speed has been set, continue idling the vehicle while measuring and recording the continuous COconcentration for a total of 600 seconds as described in paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
