
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.165-12 Air conditioning idle test procedure.
####### Calculations.

(e)(1) For the measurement with no air conditioning operation, calculate the COemissions (in grams per minute) by dividing the total mass of COfrom paragraph (d)(4) of this section by 10.0 (the duration in minutes for which COis measured). Round this result to the nearest tenth of a gram per minute.

(2)(i) For the measurement with air conditioning in operation for automatic air conditioning systems, calculate the COemissions (in grams per minute) by dividing the total mass of COfrom paragraph (d)(5) of this section by 10.0. Round this result to the nearest tenth of a gram per minute.

(ii) For the measurement with air conditioning in operation for manually controlled air conditioning systems, calculate the COemissions (in grams per minute) by summing the total mass of COfrom paragraphs (d)(5) and (d)(6) of this section and dividing by 20.0. Round this result to the nearest tenth of a gram per minute.

(3) Calculate the increased COemissions due to air conditioning (in grams per minute) by subtracting the results of paragraph (e)(1) of this section from the results of paragraph (e)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, whichever is applicable.

(f) The Administrator may prescribe procedures other than those in this section for air conditioning systems and/or vehicles that may not be susceptible to satisfactory testing by the procedures and methods in this section. For example, the Administrator may prescribe alternative air conditioning system settings for systems with controls that are not able to meet the requirements in this section.
