
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart B - Emission Regulations for 1977 and Later Model Year New Light-Duty Vehicles and New Light-Duty Trucks and New Otto-Cycle Complete Heavy-Duty Vehicles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.164-08 Supplemental Federal Test Procedure calculations.
####### e.g.

YUS06 = Calculated mass emissions per mile, using the summed mass emissions of the "US06 City" phase and the "US06 Highway" phase, based on the measured driving distance of the US06 test schedule. The "US06 City" phase shall be sampled during seconds 0-130 and from 495 seconds until five seconds after the engine stops running (602 or 603 seconds) of the US06 driving schedule. The "US06 Highway" phase shall be sampled during seconds 130-495 of the US06 driving schedule),

(ii) Composite (NMHC + NO) = Y(NMHC) + Y(NO)

Where:

(A) Y(NMHC) = results of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for NMHC.

(B) Y(NO) = results of paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section for NO.

(2) When the test vehicle is not equipped with air conditioning, the final reported test results for the SFTP composite (NMHC + NO) and optional composite CO standards shall be computed by the following formulas.

(i) Y= 0.72(Y) + 0.28(Y)

Where:

(A) Y= Mass emissions per mile for a particular pollutant weighted in terms of the contributions from the FTP and US06 schedules. Values of Yare obtained for each of the exhaust emissions of NMHC, NOand CO.

(B) Y= Weighted mass emissions per mile (Ywm) based on the measured driving distance of the FTP test schedule.
