
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart C - Emission Regulations for 1994 and Later Model Year Gasoline-Fueled New Light-Duty Vehicles, New Light-Duty Trucks and New Medium-Duty Passenger Vehicles; Cold Temperature Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.213 Fuel specifications.
####### Gasoline.

(a)Use a gasoline test fuel with ethanol (low-level blend only) or without ethanol as follows:

(1) You must certify using service accumulation fuel and E10 test fuel as specified in ยง 86.113 for any vehicles required to use a low-level ethanol-gasoline blend test fuel for measuring exhaust emissions. You may use this test fuel any time earlier than we specify.

(2) You may use the test fuel specified in this paragraph (a)(2) for vehicles that are not yet subject to exhaust testing with an ethanol-blend test fuel under ยง 86.113. Manufacturers may certify based on this fuel using carryover data until testing with the ethanol-blend test fuel is required. The following specifications apply for gasoline test fuel without ethanol:

(3) Manufacturers may use the E0 gasoline test fuel specified in ยง 86.113 for certification instead of the fuel specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, as long as the change in test fuel does not cause cold temperature NMHC, CO, or COemissions to decrease; manufacturers must keep records documenting these emission effects and make them available to EPA upon request.

(4) We may approve alternate fuel specifications that are substantially equivalent to those in paragraph (a)(2) of this section for a manufacturer's testing.
