
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.407-78 Certificate of conformity required.
####### Interim personal use exemption.

(b)An individual may manufacture one motorcycle for personal use without a certificate of conformity, subject to the following provisions:

(1) The motorcycle may not be manufactured from a certified motorcycle. The motorcycle may not be manufactured from a partially complete motorcycle that is equivalent to a certified motorcycle, unless the emission controls are included in the final product. The motorcycle must be manufactured primarily from unassembled components, but may incorporate some preassembled components. For example, fully preassembled transmissions may be used.

(2) The motorcycle may not be sold within five years of the date of final assembly.

(3) No individual may manufacture more than one motorcycle during his or her lifetime under this exemption. This restriction applies with respect to the person who purchases the components and/or uses the motorcycle, rather than to the person(s) who actually assemble(s) the motorcycle.

(4) This exemption may not be used to circumvent the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or the requirements of the Clean Air Act. For example, this exemption would not cover a case in which an entity purchases a kit, assembles the kit, and then sells it to another party; this would be considered to be the sale of the complete motorcycle.
