
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.407-78 Certificate of conformity required.
####### Interim display exemptions.

(c)Uncertified custom motorcycles that are used solely for display purposes are exempt from the standards provided they conform to the requirements of this paragraph (c). Unless a certificate of conformity has been received for such motorcycles, they may not be operated on the public streets or highways except for that operation incident and necessary to the display purpose.

(1) No request is necessary for display motorcycles that will not be sold or leased.

(2) The following requirements apply for exempting display motorcycles that will be sold or leased:

(i) Manufacturers planning to sell motorcycles for display must notify EPA of their intent to do so before they sell any exempted motorcycles. They must also maintain sales records of exempted motorcycles for at least three years and make them available to EPA upon request.

(ii) No manufacturer may sell or lease more than 24 exempted display motorcycles in any single calendar year.

(iii) Anyone selling or leasing a motorcycle exempt under this paragraph (c) must ensure that the buyer or lessee agrees to comply with the display exemption terms in the regulations.

(3) Each motorcycle exempt under this paragraph (c) must include a label that identifies the manufacturer and includes the following statement: THIS MOTORCYCLE IS EXEMPT FROM EPA EMISSION REQUIREMENTS. ITS USE ON PUBLIC ROADS IS LIMITED PURSUANT TO 40 CFR 86.407-78(c). EPA may allow manufacturers to locate the label in a location where it is obscured or hidden by a readily removable component. For example, EPA may allow the label to be located under the seat.

(4) As described in 40 CFR part 1051, motorcycles that are not considered to be motor vehicles according to 40 CFR 85.1703(a) may be exempt under this paragraph (c) from the standards and requirements of 40 CFR part 1051. Such motorcycles shall be combined with the manufacturer's highway motorcycles with respect to the sales restriction described in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(5) This exemption may not be used to circumvent the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section or the requirements of the Clean Air Act.
