
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### § 86.416-80 Application for certification.

(a) New motorcycles produced by a manufacturer whose projected sales in the United States is 10,000 or more units (for the model year in which certification if sought) are covered by the following:

(1) An application for a certificate of conformity to the regulations in the English language applicable to new motorcycles shall be made to the Administrator by the manufacturer and shall be updated and corrected by amendment. Where possible, a manufacturer should include in a single application for certification, a description of all vehicles in each class for which certification is required. A manufacturer may, however, choose to apply separately for certification of part of his product line. The selection of test vehicles and the computation of test results will be determined separately for each application.

(2) The application shall be in writing signed by an authorized representative of the manufacturer, and shall include the following:

(i) Identification and description of the vehicles covered by the application and a description of their engine, emission control system and fuel system components. This shall include a detailed description of each auxiliary emission control device. Transmission gear ratios, overall drive ratios and vehicle mass (or range of mass) shall also be included. The label and its location shall be specified, § 86.413. Available optional equipment shall be described.

(ii) The range of available fuel and ignition system adjustments.

(iii) Projected U.S. sales data sufficient to enable the Administrator to select a test fleet representative of the vehicles for which certification is requested. If reduced testing based on low sales volume is requested the method of predicting sales shall be described.

(iv) A description of the test equipment (if applicable) and fuel and engine lubricant proposed to be used.

(v) A description of the proposed service accumulation procedure and a description of the proposed scheduled maintenance.

(vi) A statement of recommended periodic and anticipated maintenance and procedures necessary to assure that the vehicles covered by a certificate of conformity in operation conform to the regulations, listings of the fuels and lubricants to be recommended to the ultimate purchaser and a description of the program for training of personnel for such maintenance, and the equipment required to perform this maintenance.

(vii) A description of normal assembly line operations and adjustments if such procedures exceed 100 km (62 miles) or three hours of engine operations.

(viii) Beginning with model year 2008, a description of the evaporative emission controls and applicable test data.

(ix) The name of an agent for service of process located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.

(3) Completed copies of the application and of any amendments thereto, and all notifications under §§ 86.438 and 86.439 shall be submitted in such multiple copies as the Administrator may require.

(4) For purposes of this section, "auxiliary emission control device" means any element of design which senses temperature, vehicle speed, engine RPM, transmission gear, manifold vacuum, or any other parameter for the purpose of activating, modulating, delaying, or deactivating the operation of any part of the emission control system.

(b) New motorcycles produced by a small-volume manufacturer (as defined in § 86.410(e)) or by any other manufacturer whose projected sales in the United States is less than 10,000 units (for the model year in which certification is sought) are covered by the following:

(1) All the information that would otherwise be required to be submitted to EPA under paragraph (a)(2) of this section must be made a part of the manufacturer's records, except there is no requirement to submit the information to the Administrator or receive approval from the Administrator.

(2) Section 86.437 details the statements that these manufacturers are required to provide to the Administrator.

(c) For the purpose of determining applicability of paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, where there is more than one importer or distributor of vehicles manufactured by the same person, the projected sales shall be the aggregate of the projected sales of those vehicles by such importers or distributors.

(d)(1) The Administrator has determined that the following certification procedure may be used to demonstrate compliance for each motorcycle engine family for which certification is sought. Manufacturers may follow these procedures at their option.

(i) The manufacturer shall satisfy all applicable requirements of part 86 necessary to demonstrate compliance with the standards for each class of new motorcycles for which certification is sought.

(ii) As specifically allowed by the Administrator the manufacturer shall assume the responsibility for part or all of the decisions applicable to the family for which certification is sought and which are within the jurisdiction of the Administrator, with the exception that the Administrator will determine whether a test motorcycle has met the applicable emission standards.

(iii) The manufacturer shall maintain, update, and correct all records and information required.

(iv) The Administrator may review a manufacturer's records at any time. At the Administrator's discretion, this review may take place either at the manufacturer's facility or at another facility designated by the Administrator.

(v) At the Administrator's request, the manufacturer shall notify the Administrator of the status of the certification program including projected schedules of those significant accomplishments specified by the Administrator.

(vi) The manufacturer shall permit the Administrator to inspect any facilities, records, and vehicles from which data were obtained under the abbreviated certification review procedure.

(vii) Upon completing all applicable requirements of part 86 the manufacturer shall submit a separate application for a certificate of conformity for each class of new motorcycles for which certification is sought. Such application shall be made in writing to the Administrator by the manufacturer.

(A) The Administrator may approve or disapprove in whole or in part an application for certification according to the procedures specified in § 86.417-78(b).

(B) If, after a review of the application for certification, test reports and data submitted by the manufacturer, data obtained during an inspection, and any other pertinent data or information, the Administrator determines that a test vehicle(s) has not met the requirements of the Act and the applicable subpart, he will notify the manufacturer in writing and set forth the reason(s) for the determination.

(2) Those families which are not following the procedure described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section will follow the procedure in this subpart with the exception of paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(e) The Administrator may require that an engine family previously allowed to be subjected to the abbreviated certification review procedure be transferred to the complete review procedure.

(f) Upon request, the Administrator may allow a manufacturer to use alternate certification procedures that are equivalent in terms of demonstrating compliance with the requirements of this part.
