
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.420-78 Engine families.
####### Rotary families.

(d)To be classed in the same engine family, rotary combustion cycle engines must be identical in all of the following applicable respects:

(1) The major axis of the epitrochoidal curve.

(2) The minor axis of the epitrochoidal curve.

(3) The generating radius of the epitrochoidal curve.

(4) The cooling mechanism.

(5) The number of rotors.

(6) The engine displacement class, ยง 86.419.

(7) The method of air aspiration.

(8) The number of catalytic converters, location, volume and composition.

(9) The thermal reactor characteristics.

(10) The number of carburetors.

(11) The prechamber characteristics.

(e) At the manufacturer's option, rotary combustion cycle engines identical in all the respects listed in paragraph (d) of this section, may be further divided into different engine families if the Administrator determines that they may be expected to have different emission characteristics. This determination will be based upon a consideration of features, such as:

(1) The width of the rotor housing.

(2) The type and location of intake port (side, peripheral, combination, etc.).

(3) The number of spark plugs per rotor.

(4) The fuel system.

(5) The exhaust system.

(f) Where engines are of a type which cannot be divided into engine families based upon the criteria listed in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section, the Administrator will establish families of those engines based upon the features most related to their emission characteristics.
