
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.420-78 Engine families.
####### Reciprocating families.

(b)To be classed in the same engine family, reciprocating engines must be identical in all of the following applicable respects:

(1) The combustion cycle.

(2) The cooling mechanism.

(3) The cylinder configuration (inline, vee, opposed, bore spacings, etc.).

(4) The number of cylinders.

(5) The engine displacement class, ยง 86.419.

(6) The method of air aspiration.

(7) The number of catalytic converters, location, volume, and composition.

(8) The thermal reactor characteristics.

(9) The number of carburetors.

(10) The prechamber characteristics.

(c) At the manufacturer's option, reciprocating engines identical in all the respects listed in paragraph (b) of this section may be further divided into different engine families if the Administrator determines that they may be expected to have different emission characteristics. This determination will be based upon a consideration of features such as:

(1) The bore and stroke.

(2) The combustion chamber configuration.

(3) The intake and exhaust timing method of actuation (poppet valve, reed valve, rotary valve, etc.).

(4) The intake and exhaust valve or port sizes, as applicable.

(5) The fuel system.

(6) The exhaust system.
