
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.421-78 Test fleet.

(a) A test vehicle will be selected by the Administrator to represent each engine-displacement-system combination. The configuration (engine calibration, transmission, drive ratio, mass, options, etc.) in the manufacturer's application which the Administrator believes has the greatest probability of exceeding the standards will be selected.

(b) At the manufacturer's option, the Administrator will only select one vehicle to represent each engine family where the total projected annual sales for that family are less than 5,000 vehicles.

(c) A manufacturer may elect to operate and test additional vehicles which are identical to those selected by the Administrator. Written notice of a commitment to operate and test additional vehicles shall be given to the Administrator prior to the start of testing and not later than 30 days following notification of the test fleet selection. The results of tests performed by the manufacturer will be combined to determine deterioration factors. Each vehicle must meet applicable standards when tested by the Administrator and when those results are projected to the useful life.

(d) In lieu of testing a test vehicle and submitting data therefore, a manufacturer may, with the prior written approval of the Administrator, submit exhaust emission data on a similar vehicle for which certification has previously been obtained or for which all applicable data has previously been submitted.
