
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.431-78 Data submission.

(a) Data from all tests (including voided tests) performed by a manufacturer with total projected sales in excess of 10,000 vehicles shall be included in the application.

(b) The manufacturer shall furnish to the Administrator explanation for voiding any test. The Administrator will determine if voiding the test was appropriate based upon the explanation given by the manufacturer. If the Administrator determines that voiding the test was not appropriate, the Administrator may require that the data from that test be used in the calculation of the deterioration factor for emissions.

(c) When unscheduled or anticipated maintenance is performed, a complete record of all pertinent maintenance, including the malfunction diagnosis made, the corrective action taken, and the test data obtained shall be included in the application.

(d) A complete record of all maintenance shall be supplied.

(e) Measure CO, NO, and CHas described in this paragraph (e) with each zero kilometer certification test (if one is conducted) and with each test conducted at the applicable minimum test distance as defined in ยง 86.427-78. Use the analytical equipment and procedures specified in 40 CFR part 1065 as needed to measure NO and CH. Report these values in your application for certification. The requirements of this paragraph (e) apply starting with model year 2011 for COand 2012 for CH. The requirements of this paragraph (e) related to NO emissions apply for engine families that depend on NOaftertreatment to meet emission standards starting with model year 2013. Small-volume manufacturers (as defined in ยง 86.410-2006(e)) may omit measurement of NO and CH; other manufacturers may provide appropriate data and/or information and omit measurement of NO and CHas described in 40 CFR 1065.5. Use the same measurement methods as for your other results to report a single value for CO, NO, and CH. Round the final values as follows:

(1) Round COto the nearest 1 g/km.

(2) Round NO to the nearest 0.001 g/km.

(3) Round CHto the nearest 0.001 g/km.
