
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.428-80 Maintenance, scheduled; test vehicles.

(a) Periodic maintenance on the engine, emission control system, and fuel system of test vehicles shall be scheduled for performance at the same distance intervals that will be specified in the manufacturer's maintenance instructions furnished to the ultimate purchaser. Such maintenance shall be performed only under the following provisions.

(b) Periodic major engine tune-ups to the manufacturer's specifications may be performed no more frequently than as follows nor may any tune-up be performed within 1000 km prior to the official test.

(c) A scheduled major engine tune-up shall be restricted to items listed below and shall be conducted in a manner consistent with service instructions and specifications provided by the manufacturer for use by customer service personnel. The following items may be inspected, replaced, cleaned, adjusted, and/or serviced as required: (1) Breaker points, timing, (2) idle speed and idle air/fuel mixture, (3) valve lash, (4) engine bolt torque, and (5) spark plugs.

(d) The Administrator will specify the ignition timing, idle air fuel mixture and other fuel system adjustments to be used at each tune-up. The settings selected will be those the Administrator deems appropriate within the physically available range.

(e) Periodic change of engine and transmission oil, and change or service of oil, air, and fuel filters will be allowed at the same distance intervals that will be specified in the manufacturer's maintenance instructions.

(f) Requests for authorization of periodic maintenance of emission control related components not specifically authorized to be maintained by this section, and for anticipated maintenance (see ยง 86.428), must be made prior to the beginning of distance accumulation. The Administrator will approve the performance of such maintenance if the manufacturer makes a satisfactory showing that the maintenance will be performed on vehicles in use and that the maintenance is reasonable and necessary.

(1) The EGR system may be serviced a maximum of two times during the durability service accumulation if failure of the EGR system activates an audible and/or visual signal approved by the Administrator which alerts the vehicle operator to the need for EGR system maintenance, or if the need for periodic maintenance of the EGR system is overtly signalled to the vehicle operator by an appropriate means, e.g., an indicator light or significantly reduced driveability performance.

(2) The catalytic converter may be serviced only once during the durability service accumulation if failure of the catalytic converter activates an audible and/or visual signal approved by the Administrator which alerts the vehicle operator to the need for catalytic converter maintenance, or if the need for periodic maintenance of the catalytic converter is overtly signalled to the vehicle operator by an appropriate means, e.g., an indicator light or significantly reduced driveability performance.

(g) Certain engine components may require maintenance which, by its nature, cannot be scheduled for periodic intervals, but which the manufacturer believes will be necessary. For example, piston and cylinder replacement caused by piston seizure which results in the vehicle being inoperative; or in the case of two-stroke engines, decarbonization, the need for which is signalled to the vehicle operator by significantly reduce driveability performance. Such maintenance is designated anticipated maintenance. Anticipated maintenance must be identified by the manufacturer and approved as being appropriate by the Administrator prior to the start of service accumulation. The approximate distance at which the need for anticipated maintenance may arise must be specified in the application for certification.

(h) Complete emission tests (see subpart F) are required, unless waived by the Administrator, before and after any vehicle maintenance which may reasonably be expected to affect emissions.
