
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### § 86.437-78 Certification.

(a) New motorcycles produced by a manufacturer whose projected sales in the United States is 10,000 or more units (for the model year in which certification is sought) are covered by the following:

(1) The manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a statement that the test vehicles with respect to which data are submitted have been tested in accordance with the applicable test procedures, that they meet the requirements of such tests, and that, on the basis of such tests, they conform to the requirements of the regulations in this part. If such statements cannot be made with respect to any vehicle tested, the vehicle shall be identified, and all pertinent test data relating thereto shall be supplied.

(2)(i) If, after a review of the test reports and data submitted by the manufacturer, data derived from any inspection carried out under § 86.441 and any other pertinent data or information, the Administrator determines that a test vehicle(s) meets the requirements of the Act and of this subpart, he will issue a certificate of conformity with respect to such vehicle(s) except in cases covered by § 86.442.

(ii) Such certificate will be issued for such period not to exceed one model year as the Administrator may determine and upon such terms as he may deem necessary to assure that any new motorcycle covered by the certificate will meet the requirements of the act and of this subpart.

(iii) The certificate will cover all vehicles represented by the test vehicle and will certify compliance with no more than one set of applicable standards.

(3)(i) If, after a review of the test reports and data submitted by the manufacturer, data derived from any additional testing conducted pursuant to § 86.427, or information derived from any inspection carried out under § 86.441, or any other pertinent data or information, the Administrator determines that one or more test vehicles of the certification test fleet do not meet applicable standards, he will notify the manufacturer in writing, setting forth the basis for his determination. The manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's determination.

(ii) The manufacturer may, at his option, proceed with any of the following alternatives with respect to any vehicles represented by a test vehicle(s) determined not in compliance with applicable standards:

(A) Request a hearing.

(B) Delete from the application for certification the vehicles represented by the failing test vehicle. (Vehicles so deleted may be included in a later request for certification under paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.) The Administrator will then select in place of each failing vehicle an alternate vehicle chosen in accordance with selection criteria employed in selecting the vehicle that failed, or

(C) Repair the test vehicle and demonstrate by testing that it meets applicable standards. Another vehicle which is in all material respects the same as the first vehicle, as repaired, shall then be operated and tested in accordance with applicable test procedures.

(iii) If the manufacturer does not request a hearing or present the required data under subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, the Administrator will deny certification.

(b) New motorcycles produced by a manufacturer whose projected sales in the United States is less than 10,000 units (for the model year in which certification is sought) are covered by the following:

(1) The manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator an application for certification containing the following:

(i) A brief description of the vehicles to be covered by the certificate (the manufacturer's sales data book or advertising including specifications will satisfy this requirement for most manufacturers).

(ii) A statement signed by the authorized representative of the manufacturer stating: "The vehicles described herein have been tested in accordance with the provisions of subpart E, part 86, title 40, of the Code of Federal Regulations, and on the basis of these tests are in conformance with that subpart. All of the data and records required by that subpart are on file and are available for inspection by the Administrator. Total sales of vehicles subject to this subpart will be limited to less than 10,000 units."

(iii) The name of an agent for service of process located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.

(2) If, after a review of the statement the Administrator determines that the requirements of this subpart have been met, he will issue a certificate of conformity with respect to the described vehicles except in cases covered by § 86.442.

(3) Such certificate will be issued for such a period not to exceed one model year as the Administrator may determine and upon such terms as he may deem necessary to assure that any new motorcycle covered by the certificate will meet the requirements of the Act and of this subpart.

(4) The certificate will cover all vehicles described by the manufacturer.

(5)(i) If, after a review of the statements and descriptions submitted by the manufacturer, the Administrator determines that the applicable requirements have not been met, he will notify the manufacturer in writing, setting forth the basis for his determination. The manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's determination.

(ii) If the manufacturer does not request a hearing or present the required information the Administrator will deny certification.
