
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.440-78 Maintenance of records.
####### 4

() The required description shall specify the steps taken to assure that the certification vehicle with respect to its engine, drive train, fuel system, emission control system components, exhaust after treatment device, vehicle mass, or any other device or component that can reasonably be expected to influence exhaust emissions, will be representative of production vehicles, and that either all components and/or vehicle construction processes, component inspection and selection techniques, and assembly techniques employed in constructing such vehicles are reasonably likely to be implemented for production vehicles, or they are as closely analogous as practicable to planned construction and assembly processes.

(B) A complete record of all emission tests performed (except tests performed by EPA directly) including test results, the date and purpose of each test, and the distance accumulated on the vehicle.

(C) The date of each service accumulation run, listing the distance accumulated.

(D) [Reserved]

(E) A record and description of all maintenance and other servicing performed, giving the date of the maintenance or service and the reason for it.

(F) A record and description of each test performed to diagnose engine or emissions control system performance, giving the date and time of the test and the reason for it.

(G) [Reserved]

(H) A brief description of any significant events affecting the vehicle during any time in the period covered by the history, not described by an entry under one of the previous headings, including such extraordinary events as vehicle accidents or dynamometer runaway.

(ii) Each such history shall be started on the date that the first of any of the selection or build-up activities in paragraph (a)(2)(i)(A) of this section occurred with respect to the certification vehicle, shall be updated each time the operational status of the vehicle changes or additional work is performed on it, and shall be kept in a designated location.
