
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.441-78 Right of entry.

(a) Any manufacturer who has applied for certification of a new motorcycle subject to certification tests under this subpart shall admit or cause to be admitted any EPA Enforcement Officer during operating hours on presentation of any credentials to any of the following:

(1) Any facility where any such tests or any procedures or activities connected with such tests are or were performed.

(2) Any facility where any new motorcycle which is being, was or is to be tested is present.

(3) Any facility where any construction process or assembly process used in the modification or build-up of such a vehicle into a certification vehicle is taking place or has taken place.

(4) Any facility where any record or other document relating to any of the above is located.

(b) Upon admission to any facility referred to in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, any EPA Enforcement Officer shall be allowed:

(1) To inspect and monitor any part or aspect of such procedures, activities, and testing facilities, including, but not limited to, monitoring vehicle preconditioning, emissions tests and service accumulation, maintenance, and vehicle soak and storage procedures; and to verify correlation or calibration of test equipment;

(2) To inspect and make copies of any such records, designs, or other documents; and

(3) To inspect and/or photograph any part or aspect of any such certification vehicle and any components to be used in the construction thereof.

(c) In order to allow the Administrator to determine whether or not production motorcycles conform in all material respects to the design specifications which applied to those vehicles described in the application for certification for which a certificate of conformity has been issued and to standards prescribed under section 202 of the Act, any manufacturer shall admit any EPA Enforcement Officer on presentation of credentials to both:

(1) Any facility where any document design, or procedure relating to the translation of the design and construction of engines and emission related components described in the application for certification or used for certification testing into production vehicles is located or carried on; and

(2) Any facility where any motorcycles to be introduced into commerce are manufactured or assembled.

(d) On admission to any such facility referred to in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, any EPA Enforcement Officer shall be allowed:

(1) To inspect and monitor any aspects of such manufacture or assembly and other procedures;

(2) To inspect and make copies of any such records, documents or designs; and

(3) To inspect and photograph any part or aspect of any such new motorcycles and any component used in the assembly thereof that are reasonably related to the purpose of his entry.

(e) Any EPA Enforcement Officer shall be furnished by those in charge of a facility being inspected with such reasonable assistance as he may request to help him discharge any function listed in this paragraph. Each applicant for or recipient of certification is required to cause those in charge of a facility operated for its benefit to furnish such reasonable assistance without charge to EPA whether or not the applicant controls the facility.

(f) The duty to admit or cause to be admitted any EPA Enforcement Officer applies whether or not the applicant owns or controls the facility in question and applies both to domestic and to foreign manufacturers and facilities. EPA will not attempt to make any inspections which it has been informed that local law forbids. However, if local law makes it impossible to do what is necessary to insure the accuracy of data generated at a facility, no informed judgment that a vehicle or engine is certifiable or is covered by a certificate can properly be based on that data. It is the responsibility of the manufacturer to locate its testing and manufacturing facilities in jurisdictions where this situation will not arise.

(g) For purposes of this section:
