
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.445-2006 What temporary provisions address hardship due to unusual circumstances?

(a) After considering the circumstances, the Director of the Office of Transportation and Air Quality may permit you to introduce into commerce highway motorcycles that do not comply with emission standards if all the following conditions and requirements apply:

(1) Unusual circumstances that are clearly outside your control and that could not have been avoided with reasonable discretion prevent you from meeting requirements from this chapter.

(2) You exercised prudent planning and were not able to avoid the violation; you have taken all reasonable steps to minimize the extent of the nonconformity.

(3) Not having the exemption will jeopardize the solvency of your company.

(4) No other allowances are available under the regulations of this part to avoid the impending violation, excluding those in ยง 86.446.

(b) To apply for an exemption, you must send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request as soon as possible before you are in violation. In your request, show that you meet all the conditions and requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.

(c) Include in your request a plan showing how you will meet all the applicable requirements as quickly as possible.

(d) You must give us other relevant information if we ask for it.

(e) We may include reasonable additional conditions on an approval granted under this section, including provisions to recover or otherwise address the lost environmental benefit or paying fees to offset any economic gain resulting from the exemption. For example, in the case of multiple tiers of emission standards, we may require that you meet the less stringent standards.

(f) Add a permanent, legible label, written in block letters in English, to a readily visible part of each motorcycle exempted under this section. This label must include at least the following items:

(1) The label heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Your corporate name and trademark.

(3) Engine displacement (in liters) and model year of the engine or whom to contact for further information.

(4) The statement "THIS MOTORCYCLE IS EXEMPT UNDER 40 CFR 86.445-2006 FROM EMISSION STANDARDS AND RELATED REQUIREMENTS.".
