
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.447-2006 What provisions apply to motorcycle engines below 50 cc that are certified under the Small SI program or the Recreational-vehicle program?
####### Specific requirements.

(d)If you are an engine or vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new engine or vehicle, the highway motorcycle is eligible for an exemption under this section:

(1) Your engine must be below 50 cc and must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity for Class II engines issued under 40 CFR part 90 or for recreational vehicles under 40 CFR part 1051.

(2) You must not make any changes to the certified engine that could reasonably be expected to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions, if applicable. For example, if you make any of the following changes to one of these engines, you do not qualify for this exemption:

(i) Change any fuel system or evaporative system parameters from the certified configuration.

(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the engine manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.

(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original engine manufacturer's specified ranges.

(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in highway motorcycles. This includes engines used in any application, without regard to which company manufactures the vehicle or equipment. In addition, if you manufacture highway motorcycles, you must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are highway motorcycles. Show that you meet the engine-sales criterion as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the engine, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the engine to confirm the engine sales volumes based on its sales information.

(4) You must ensure that the engine has the label we require under 40 CFR part 90 or 1051.

(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the engine in a position where it will remain clearly visible after installation in the vehicle. In the supplemental label, do the following:

(i) Include the heading: "HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.

(iii) State: "THIS ENGINE WAS ADAPTED FOR HIGHWAY USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.".

(iv) State the date you finished installation (month and year), if applicable.

(6) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the engine or vehicle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year.

(iii) State: "We produce each listed [engine or vehicle] model for without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 86.447-2006.".
