
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.446-2006 What are the provisions for extending compliance deadlines for small-volume manufacturers under hardship?

(a) After considering the circumstances, the Director of the Office of Transportation and Air Quality may extend the compliance deadline for you to meet new or revised emission standards, as long as you meet all the conditions and requirements in this section.

(b) To be eligible for this exemption, you must qualify as a small-volume manufacturer under ยง 86.410-2006(e).

(c) To apply for an extension, you must send the Designated Compliance Officer a written request. In your request, show that all the following conditions and requirements apply:

(1) You have taken all possible business, technical, and economic steps to comply.

(i) In the case of importers, show that you attempted to find a manufacturer capable of supplying complying products as soon as you became aware of the applicable requirements, but were unable to do so.

(ii) For all other manufacturers, show that the burden of compliance costs prevents you from meeting the requirements of this chapter.

(2) Not having the exemption will jeopardize the solvency of your company.

(3) No other allowances are available under the regulations in this part to avoid the impending violation, excluding those in ยง 86.445.

(d) In describing the steps you have taken to comply under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, include at least the following information:

(1) Describe your business plan, showing the range of projects active or under consideration.

(2) Describe your current and projected financial standing, with and without the burden of complying fully with the regulations in this part.

(3) Describe your efforts to raise capital to comply with regulations in this part (this may not apply for importers).

(4) Identify the engineering and technical steps you have taken or plan to take to comply with the regulations in this part.

(5) Identify the level of compliance you can achieve. For example, you may be able to produce engines that meet a somewhat less stringent emission standard than the regulations require.

(e) Include in your request a plan showing how you will meet all the applicable requirements as quickly as possible.

(f) You must give us other relevant information if we ask for it.

(g) An authorized representative of your company must sign the request and include the statement: "All the information in this request is true and accurate, to the best of my knowledge."

(h) Send your request for this extension at least nine months before new standards apply. Do not send your request before the regulations in question apply to other manufacturers.

(i) We may include reasonable requirements on an approval granted under this section, including provisions to recover or otherwise address the lost environmental benefit. For example, we may require that you meet a less stringent emission standard or buy and use available emission credits.

(j) We will approve extensions of up to one year. We may review and revise an extension as reasonable under the circumstances.

(k) Add a permanent, legible label, written in block letters in English, to a readily visible part of each motorcycle exempted under this section. This label must include at least the following items:

(1) The label heading "EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(2) Your corporate name and trademark.

(3) Engine displacement (in liters) and model year of the motorcycle or whom to contact for further information.

(4) The statement "THIS MOTORCYCLE IS EXEMPT UNDER 40 CFR 86.446 FROM EMISSION STANDARDS AND RELATED REQUIREMENTS.".
