
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart E - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles, General Provisions
###### ยง 86.448-2006 What provisions apply to vehicles certified under the Recreational-vehicle program?
####### Specific requirements.

(d)If you are a recreational-vehicle manufacturer and meet all the following criteria and requirements regarding your new highway motorcycle and its engine, the highway motorcycle is eligible for an exemption under this section:

(1) Your motorcycle must have an engine below 50 cc and it must be covered by a valid certificate of conformity as a recreational vehicle issued under 40 CFR part 1051.

(2) You must not make any changes to the certified recreational vehicle that we could reasonably expect to increase its exhaust emissions for any pollutant, or its evaporative emissions if it is subject to evaporative-emission standards. For example, if you make any of the following changes, you do not qualify for this exemption:

(i) Change any fuel system parameters from the certified configuration.

(ii) Change, remove, or fail to properly install any other component, element of design, or calibration specified in the vehicle manufacturer's application for certification. This includes aftertreatment devices and all related components.

(iii) Modify or design the engine cooling system so that temperatures or heat rejection rates are outside the original vehicle manufacturer's specified ranges.

(3) You must show that fewer than 50 percent of the engine family's total sales in the United States are used in highway motorcycles. This includes highway and off-highway motorcycles, without regard to which company completes the manufacturing of the highway motorcycle. Show this as follows:

(i) If you are the original manufacturer of the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information.

(ii) In all other cases, you must get the original manufacturer of the vehicle to confirm this based on their sales information.

(4) The highway motorcycle must have the vehicle emission control information we require under 40 CFR part 1051.

(5) You must add a permanent supplemental label to the highway motorcycle in a position where it will remain clearly visible. In the supplemental label, do the following:

(i) Include the heading: "HIGHWAY MOTORCYCLE ENGINE EMISSION CONTROL INFORMATION".

(ii) Include your full corporate name and trademark. You may instead include the full corporate name and trademark of another company you choose to designate.

(iii) State: "THIS VEHICLE WAS ADAPTED FOR HIGHWAY USE WITHOUT AFFECTING ITS EMISSION CONTROLS.".

(iv) State the date you finished modifying the vehicle (month and year), if applicable.

(6) Send the Designated Compliance Officer a signed letter by the end of each calendar year (or less often if we tell you) with all the following information:

(i) Identify your full corporate name, address, and telephone number.

(ii) List the highway motorcycle models you expect to produce under this exemption in the coming year.

(iii) State: "We produced each listed highway motorcycle without making any changes that could increase its certified emission levels, as described in 40 CFR 86.448-2006.".
