
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.509-90 Exhaust gas sampling system.
####### Critical flow venturi.

(4)The operation of the Critical Flow Venturi-Constant Volume Sampler (CFV-CVS) sample system, Figure F90-2, is based upon the principles of fluid dynamics associated with critical flow. Proportional sampling throughout temperature excursions is maintained by use of small CFVs in the sample lines, which respond to the varying temperatures in the same manner as the main CFV. For methanol-fueled motorcycles, the methanol and formaldehyde sample lines are heated to prevent condensation. The temperature of the sample lines shall be more than 3 &#xB0;C (5 &#xB0;F) above the maximum dew point of the sample, but below 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F). Care must be taken to ensure that the CFVs of the sample probes are not heated since heating of the CFVs would cause loss of proportionality. (Note: For 1990 through 1994 model year methanol-fueled motorcycles, methanol and formaldehyde sampling may be omitted provided the bag sample (hydrocarbons and methanol) is analyzed using a HFID calibrated with methanol.) Total flow per test is determined by continuously computing and integrating instantaneous flow. A low response time temperature sensor is necessary for accurate flow calculation.
