
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.513 Fuel and engine lubricant specifications.
####### Gasoline.

(a)(1) Use gasoline meeting the following specifications for exhaust and evaporative emission testing:

(2) The following specifications apply for fuels used during service accumulation for certification:

(i) Unleaded gasoline and engine lubricants representative of commercial fuels and engine lubricants which will be generally available through retail outlets shall be used in service accumulation.

(ii) The octane rating of the gasoline used shall be no higher than 4.0 Research octane numbers above the minimum recommended by the manufacturer.

(iii) The Reid Vapor Pressure of the gasoline used shall be characteristic of commercial gasoline fuel during the season in which the service accumulation takes place.

(3) Manufacturers may alternatively use ethanol-blended gasoline meeting the specifications described in 40 CFR 1065.710(b) for general testing without our advance approval. Manufacturers using the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family may also use it for any testing for that engine family under this part. If manufacturers use the ethanol-blended fuel for certifying a given engine family, EPA may use the ethanol-blended fuel or the neat gasoline test fuel specified in this section for that engine family. Manufacturers may also request to use fuels meeting alternate specifications as described in 40 CFR 1065.701(b).
