
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.509-90 Exhaust gas sampling system.
####### Component description, PDP-CVS.

(b)The PDP-CVS, Figure F90-1, consists of a dilution air filter and mixing assembly, heat exchanger, positive displacement pump, sampling systems including, probes and sampling lines which, in the case of the methanol-fueled motorcycles, are heated to prevent condensation (heating of the sample lines may be omitted, provided the methanol and formaldehyde sample collection systems are close coupled to the probes thereby preventing loss of sample due to cooling and resulting condensation in the sample lines), and associated valves, pressure and temperature sensors. The PDP-CVS shall conform to the following requirements:

(1) Static pressure variations at the tailpipe(s) of the vehicle shall remain within +/-1.25 kPa (+/-5.02 in HO) of the static pressure variations measured during a dynamometer driving cycle with no connection to the tailpipe(s). (Sampling systems capable of maintaining the static pressure to within +/-0.25 kPa (+/-1.00 in. HO) will be used by the Administrator if a written request substantiates the need for this closer tolerance.)

(2) The gas mixture temperature, measured at a point immediately ahead of the positive displacement pump, shall be within +/-5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) of the designed operating temperature at the start of the test. The gas mixture temperature variation from its value at the start of the test shall be limited to +/-5 &#xB0;C (9 &#xB0;F) during the entire test. The temperature measuring system shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-1 &#xB0;C (1.8 &#xB0;F).

(3) The pressure gauges shall have an accuracy and precision of +/-0.4 kPa (+/-3 mm Hg).

(4) The location of the dilution air inlet shall be placed so as to use test-cell air for dilution and the flow capacity of the CVS shall be large enough to completely eliminate water condensation in the dilution and sampling systems. Control of water condensation with methanol-fueled vehicles is critical. Additional care may also be required to eliminate water condensation when testing natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles. (Procedures for determining CVS flow rates are detailed in "Calculation of Emissions and Fuel Economy When Using Alternative Fuels," EPA 460/3-83-009.) Dehumidifying the dilution air before entering the CVS is allowed. Heating the dilution air is also allowed, provided:

(i) The air (or air plus exhaust gas) temperature does not exceed 121 &#xB0;C (250 &#xB0;F).

(ii) Calculation of the CVS flow rate necessary to prevent water condensation is based on the lowest temperature encountered in the CVS prior to sampling. (It is recommended that the CVS system be insulated when heated dilution air is used.)

(iii) The dilution ratio is sufficiently high to prevent condensation in bag samples as they cool to room temperature.

(5) Sample collection bags for dilution air and exhaust samples (hydrocarbons and carbon monoide) shall be of sufficient size so as not to impede sample flow. A single dilution air sample, covering the total test period, may be collected for the determination of methanol and formaldehyde background (methanol-fueled motorcycles).

(6) The methanol sample collection system and the formaldehyde sample collection system shall each be of sufficient capacity so as to collect samples of adequate size for analysis without significant impact on the volume of dilute exhaust passing through the PDP. The systems shall also comply with the following requirements that apply to the design of the systems, not to individual tests:

(i) The methanol system shall be designed such that if a test motorcycle continuously emitted the maximum allowable level of methanol (based on all applicable standards) the measured concentration in the primary impinger would exceed either 25 mg/l or a concentration equal to 25 times the limit of detection for the GC analyzer.

(ii) The formaldehyde system shall be designed such that if a test motorcycle continuously emitted formaldehyde at a rate equal to twenty percent of the maximum allowable level of THCE (i.e., 1.0 g/km for a 5.0 g/km standard), or the maximum formaldehyde level allowed by a specific formaldehyde standard, whichever is less, the concentration of formaldehyde in the DNPH solution of the primary impinger, or solution resulting from the extraction of the DNPH cartridge, shall exceed either 2.5 mg/l or a concentration equal to 25 times the limit of detection for the HPLC analyzer.

(iii) The methanol and formaldehyde systems shall be designed such that the primary impinger collects at least 90 percent of the analyte in the samples. The remaining analyte shall be collected by the secondary impinger. This requirement does not apply to dilution air samples, since they do not require secondary impingers, or to samples in which the concentrations approach the limit of detection.
