
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.515-78 EPA urban dynamometer driving schedule.

(a) The dynamometer driving schedules are listed in appendix I. The driving schedules are defined by a smooth trace drawn through the specified speed vs. time relationships. They consist of a nonrepetitive series of idle, acceleration, cruise, and deceleration modes of various time sequences and rates. Appropriate driving schedules are as follows:

(1) Class I-Appendix I(b).

(2) Class II-Appendix I(a)(2).

(3) Class III-Appendix I(a)(2).

(b) The speed tolerance at any given time on the dynamometer driving schedule prescribed in appendix I or as printed on a driver's aid chart approved by the Administrator, when conducted to meet the requirements of ยง 86.537 is defined by upper and lower limits. The upper limit is 3.2 km/h (2 mph) higher than the highest point on the trace within 1 second of the given time. The lower limit is 3.2 km/h (2 mph) lower than the lowest point on the trace within 1 second of the given time. Speed variations greater than the tolerances (such as may occur during gear changes) are acceptable provided they occur for less than 2 seconds on any occasion. Speeds lower than those prescribed are acceptable provided the vehicle is operated at maximum available power during such occurrences. When conducted to meet the requirements of ยง 86.532 the speed tolerance shall be as specified above, except that the upper and lower limits shall be 6.4 km/h (4 mph).

(c) Figure F78-4 shows the range of acceptable speed tolerances for typical points. Figure F78-4(a) is typical of portions of the speed curve which are increasing or decreasing throughout the two second time interval. Figure F78-4(b) is typical of portions of the speed curve which include a maximum or minimum value.

(d) For motorcycles with an engine displacement less than 50 cc and a top speed less than 58.7 km/hr (36.5 mph), the speed indicated for each second of operation on the applicable Class I driving trace (speed versus time sequence) specified in appendix I(b) shall be adjusted downward by the ratio of actual top speed to specified maximum test speed. Calculate the ratio with three significant figures by dividing the top speed of the motorcycle in km/hr by 58.7. For example, for a motorcycle with a top speed of 48.3 km/hr (30 mph), the ratio would be 48.3/58.7 = 0.823. The top speed to be used under this section shall be indicated in the manufacturer's application for certification, and shall be the highest sustainable speed of the motorcycle with an 80 kg rider on a flat paved surface. If the motorcycle is equipped with a permanent speed governor that is unlikely to be removed in actual use, measure the top speed in the governed configuration; otherwise measure the top speed in the ungoverned configuration.
