
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.513 Fuel and engine lubricant specifications.
####### Mixtures of petroleum and methanol fuels for flexible fuel motorcycles.

(c)(1) Mixtures of petroleum and methanol fuels used for exhaust and evaporative emission testing and service accumulation for flexible fuel motorcycles shall consist of the petroleum fuel listed in paragraph (a) of this section and the methanol fuel listed in paragraph (b), and shall be within the range of fuel mixtures for which the vehicle was designed, as reported in accordance with ยง 86.90-21. The Administrator may use any fuel or fuel mixture within this range for testing.

(2) The fuel mixtures used by the manufacturers shall be sufficient to demonstrate compliance over the full design range, and shall include:

(i) For emission testing,

(A) The petroleum fuel specified in paragraph (a) or (b),

(B) A methanol fuel representative of the methanol fuel expected to the found in use, as specified in paragraph (b),

(ii) For service accumulation, an alternating combination of the fuels specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) will be used to demonstrate the durability of the emission control systems based on good engineering judgement. The combination shall be selected such that the cumulative volumes of both the methanol fuel and the petroleum fuel used shall be at least twenty-five percent of the total fuel volume. The fuels shall be alternated at mileage intervals not to exceed 1,000 kilometers.

(3) The specification range of the fuels to be used under paragraph (c) of this section shall be reported in accordance with ยง 86.094-21.
