
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.514-78 Analytical gases.
####### Analyzer gases.

(a)(1) Gases for the CO and COanalyzers shall be single blends of CO and COrespectively using nitrogen as the diluent.

(2) Gases for the THC analyzer shall be:

(i) Single blends of propane using air as the diluent; and

(ii) Optionally, for response factor determination, single blends of methanol using air as the diluent.

(3) Gases for the NOanalyzer shall be single blends of NO named as NOwith a maximum NOconcentration of 5 percent of the nominal value using nitrogen as the diluent.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) The allowable zero gas (air or nitrogen) impurity concentrations shall not exceed 1 ppm equivalent carbon response, 1 ppm carbon monoxide, 0.04 percent (400 ppm) carbon dioxide, and 0.1 ppm nitric oxide.

(6) "Zero grade air" includes artificial "air" consisting of a blend of nitrogen and oxygen with oxygen concentrations between 18 and 21 mole percent.

(7) The use of proportioning and precision blending devices to obtain the required analyzer gas concentrations is allowable provided their use has been approved in advance by the Administrator.

(b) Calibration gases (not including methanol) shall be known to within 2 percent of true values.

(c) Methanol in air gases used for response factor determination shall:

(1) Be traceable to within +/-2 percent of NIST (formerly NBS) gas standards, or other gas standards which have been approved by the Administrator; and

(2) Remain within +/-2 percent of the labeled concentration. Demonstration of stability shall be based on a quarterly measurement procedure with a precision of +/-2 percent (two standard deviations), or other method approved by the Administrator. The measurement procedure may incorporate multiple measurements. If the true concentration of the gas changes by more than two percent, but less than ten percent, the gas may be relabeled with the new concentration.
