
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.519-90 Constant volume sampler calibration.
####### 2,For English units,

()P= P+ PPO(SP.GR./13.57).

(D) PPO = Pressure head at pump outlet, kPa (in. fluid).

(iv) A linear least squares fit is performed to generate the calibration equations which have the forms:

V= D- M(X)

n = A - B(Δ P)

D&#x2032; M, A, and B are the slope-intercept constants, describing the lines.

(8) A CVS system that has multiple speeds shall be calibrated on each speed used. The calibration curves generated for the ranges will be approximately parallel and the intercept values, D&#x2032; will increase as the pump flow range decreases.

(9) If the calibration has been performed carefully, the calculated values from the equation will be within +/-0.50 percent of the measured value of V. Values of M will vary from one pump to another, but values of Dfor pumps of the same make, model, and range should agree within +/-3 percent of each other. Particulate influx from use will cause the pump slip to decrease as reflected by lower values for M. Calibrations should be performed at pump startup and after major maintenance to assure the stability of the pump slip rate. Analysis of mass injection data will also reflect pump slip stability.
