
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.523-78 Oxides of nitrogen analyzer calibration.

(a) Prior to introduction into service and at least monthly thereafter, if oxides of nitrogen are measured, the chemiluminescent oxides of nitrogen analyzer must be checked for NOto NO converter efficiency. Figure F78-8 is a reference for paragraphs (a) (1) through (11) of this section.

(1) Follow the manufacturer's instructions for instrument startup and operation. Adjust the analyzer to optimize performance.

(2) Zero the oxides of nitrogen analyzer with zero grade air or zero grade nitrogen.

(3) Connect the outlet of the NOgenerator to the sample inlet of the oxides of nitrogen analyzer which has been set to the most common operating range.

(4) Introduce into the NOgenerator analyzer-system a NO in nitrogen (N) mixture with a NO concentration equal to approximately 80 percent of the most common operating range. The NOcontent of the gas mixture shall be less than 5 percent of the NO concentration.

(5) With the oxides of nitrogen analyzer in the NO mode, record the concentration of NO indicated by the analyzer.

(6) Turn on the NOgenerator O(or air) supply and adjust the O(or air) flow rate so that the NO indicated by the analyzer is about 10 percent less than indicated in step 5. Record the concentration of NO in this NO + Omixture.

(7) Switch the NOgenerator to the generation mode and adjust the generation rate so that the NO measured on the analyzer is 20 percent of that measured in step 5. There must be at least 10 percent unreacted NO at this point. Record the concentration of residual NO.

(8) Switch the oxides of nitrogen analyzer to the NOmode and measure total NO. Record this value.

(9) Switch off the NOgeneration but maintain gas flow through the system. The oxides of nitrogen analyzer will indicate the NOin the NO + Omixture. Record this value.

(10) Turn off the NOgenerator O(or air) supply. The analyzer will now indicate the NOin the original NO in Nmixture. This value should be no more than 5 percent above the value indicated in step 4.

(11) Calculate the efficiency of the NOconverter by substituting the concentrations obtained into the following equation:
