
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.519-90 Constant volume sampler calibration.
####### CVS system verification.

(d)The following "gravimetric" technique can be used to verify that the CVS and analytical instruments can accurately measure a mass of gas that has been injected into the system. If the CVS and analytical system will be used only in the testing of gasoline-fueled vehicles, the system verification may be performed using either propane or carbon monoxide. If the CVS and analytical system will be used with methanol-fueled vehicles as well as gasoline-fueled vehicles, system verification performance check must include a methanol check in addition to either the propane or carbon monoxide check. (Verification can also be accomplished by constant flow metering using critical flow orifice devices.)

(1) Obtain a small cylinder that has been charged with pure propane or carbon monoxide gas (CAUTION-carbon monoxide is poisonous).

(2) Determine a reference cylinder weight to the nearest 0.01 grams.

(3) Operate the CVS in the normal manner and release a quantity of pure propane or carbon monoxide into the system during the sampling period (approximately 5 minutes).

(4) Following completion of step (3) above (if methanol injection is required), continue to operate the CVS in the normal manner and release a known quantity of pure methanol (in gaseous form) into the system during the sampling period (approximately 5 minutes). This step does not need to be performed with each verification, provided that it is performed at least twice annually.

(5) The calculations of ยง 86.544 are performed in the normal way except in the case of propane. The density of propane (0.6109 kg/m/carbon atom (17.30 g/ft/carbon atom)) is used in place of the density of exhaust hydrocarbons. In the case of carbon monoxide, the density of 1.164 kg/m(32.97 g/ft) is used. In the case of methanol, the density of 1.332 kg/m(37.71 g/ft) is used.

(6) The gravimetric mass is subtracted from the CVS measured mass and then divided by the gravimetric mass to determine the percent accuracy of the system.

(7) The cause for any discrepancy greater than +/-2 percent must be found and corrected. The Administrator, upon request, may waive the requirement to comply with +/-2 percent methanol recovery tolerance, and instead require compliance with a higher tolerance (not to exceed +/-6 percent), provided that:

(i) The Administrator determines that compliance with the specified tolerance is not practically feasible; and

(ii) The manufacturer makes information available to the Administrator which indicates that the calibration tests and their results are consistent with good laboratory practice, and that the results are consistent with the results of calibration testing conducted by the Administrator.
