
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.521-90 Hydrocarbon analyzer calibration.
####### Initial and periodic optimization of detector response.

(b)Prior to its introduction into service and at least annually thereafter, the FID hydrocarbon analyzer shall be adjusted for optimum hydrocarbon response. Analyzers used with petroleum fuels and liquefied petroleum gas-fuel shall be optimized using propane. Analyzers used with natural gas-fuel for measurement of hydrocarbons shall be optimized using methane. If a single analyzer is used for all measurements, it shall be optimized using propane and its response factor for methane shall be determined and accounted for in measurements of total hydrocarbons from natural gas-fuel. Alternate methods yielding equivalent results may be used, if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(1) Follow the manufacturer's instructions or good engineering practice for instrument startup and basic operating adjustment using the appropriate FID fuel and zero-grade air.

(2) Optimize on the most common operating range. Introduce into the analyzer a propane (methane as appropriate) in air mixture (methanol in air mixture for methanol-fueled vehicles when optional methanol calibrated FID procedure is used during the 1990 through 1994 model year) with a propane (or methane or methanol as appropriate) concentration equal to approximately 90 percent of the most common operating range.

(3) Select an operating FID fuel flow rate that will give near maximum response and least variation in response with minor fuel flow variations.

(4) To determine the optimum air flow, use the FID fuel flow setting determined above and vary air flow.

(5) After the optimum flow rates have been determined, record them for future reference.
