
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.535-90 Dynamometer procedure.
####### vs.

(c) The vehicle speed, as measured from the dynamometer roll, shall be used. A speedtime recording, as evidence of dynamometer test validity, shall be supplied on request of the Administrator.

(d) Practice runs over the prescribed driving schedule may be performed at test points, provided an emission sample is not taken, for the purpose of finding the minimum throttle action to maintain the proper speed-time relationship, or to permit sampling system adjustments.

(e) The drive wheel tires must be inflated to the manufacturer's recommended pressure, +/-15 kPa (+/-2.2 psi). The drive wheel tire pressure shall be reported with the test results.

(f) If the dynamometer has not been operated during the two-hour period immediately preceding the test, it shall be warmed up for 15 minutes by operating at 50 km/h (31 mph) using a nontest vehicle, or as recommended by the dynamometer manufacturer.

(g) If the dynamometer horsepower must be adjusted manually, it shall be set within one hour prior to the exhaust emissions test phase. The test vehicle shall not be used to make this adjustment. Dynamometers using automatic control of preselectable power settings may be set anytime prior to the beginning of the emissions test.

(h) The driving distance, as measured by counting the number of dynamometer roll revolutions, shall be determined for the transient cold start, stabilized cold start, and transient hot start phases of the test.
