
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.527-90 Test procedures, overview.

(a) The procedures described in this and subsequent sections are used to determine the conformity of motorcycles with the standards set forth in subpart E of this part.

(b) The overall test consists of prescribed sequences of fueling, parking, and operating conditions.

(c) The exhaust emission test is designed to determine hydrocarbon (gasoline-fueled, natural gas-fueled and liquefied petroleum gas-fueled motorcycles), methanol, formaldehyde, and hydrocarbon (methanol-fueled motorcycles), carbon monoxide and oxides of nitrogen mass emissions while simulating an average trip in an urban area. The test consists of engine startups and motorcycle operation on a chassis dynamometer, through a specified driving schedule. A proportional part of the diluted exhaust emissions is collected continuously for subsequent analysis, using a constant volume (variable dilution) sampler.

(d) Except in cases of component malfunction or failure, all emission control systems installed on or incorporated in a new motorcycle shall be functioning during all procedures in this subpart. Maintenance to correct component malfunction or failure shall be authorized in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(e) Background concentrations are measured for all species for which emissions measurements are made. For exhaust testing, this requires sampling and analysis of the dilution air. (When testing methanol-fueled motorcycles, manufacturers may choose not to measure background concentrations of methanol and/or formaldehyde, and then assume that the concentrations are zero during calculations.)
