
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.528-78 Transmissions.

(a) Vehicles equipped with transfer cases, multiple sprockets, etc., shall be tested in the manufacturer's recommended configuration for street or highway use. If more than one configuration is recommended or if the recommendation is deemed unreasonable by the Administrator, the Administrator will specify the test configuration.

(b) All tests shall be conducted with automatic transmissions in "Drive" (highest gear). Automatic clutch-torque converter transmissions may be shifted as manual transmissions at the option of the manufacturer.

(c) Idle modes shall be run with automatic transmissions in "Drive" and the wheels braked, manual transmission shall be in gear with the clutch disengaged; except first idle, see §§ 86.536 and 86.537.

(d) The vehicle shall be driven with minimum throttle movement to maintain the desired speed. No simultaneous use of brake and throttle shall be permitted.

(e) Acceleration modes shall be driven smoothly. Automatic transmissions shall shift automatically through the normal sequence of gears; manual transmissions shall be shifted as recommended by the manufacturer to the ultimate purchaser (unless determined to be unreasonable by the Administrator) with the operator closing the throttle during each shift and accomplishing the shift with minimum time. If the vehicle cannot accelerate at the specified rate, the vehicle shall be operated with the throttle fully opened until the vehicle speed reaches the value prescribed for that time in the driving schedule.

(f) The deceleration modes shall be run in gear using brakes or throttle as necessary to maintain the desired speed. Manual transmission vehicles shall be downshifted using the same shift points as when upshifting or as recommended by the manufacturer in the vehicle owner's manual. All downshifts shall be made smoothly, disengaging the clutch while shifting and engaging the clutch once the lower gear has been selected. For those modes which require the vehicle to decelerate to zero, manual transmission clutches shall be disengaged when the speed drops below 15 km/h (9.3 mph) for vehicles with engine displacements equal to or greater than 280 cc (17.1 cu. in.), when the speed drops below 10 km/h (6.2 mph) for vehicles with engine displacements less than 280 cc (17.1 cu. in.), when engine roughness is evident, or when engine stalling is imminent.

(g) If downshifting during deceleration is not permitted in the vehicle owner's manual, manual transmissions will be downshifted at the beginning of or during a power mode if recommended by the manufacturer or if the engine obviously is lugging. For those modes which require these vehicles to decelerate to zero, manual transmission clutches shall be disengaged when the speed drops below 25 km/h (15.5 mph) for vehicles with engine displacement equal to or greater than 280 cc (17.1 cu. in.), when the speed drops below 20 km/h (12.4 mph) for vehicles with engine displacements less than 280 cc (17.1 cu. in.), when engine roughness is evident, or when engine stalling is imminent. While the clutch is disengaged and during these deceleration modes, the vehicle shall be shifted to the appropriate gear for starting the next mode.

(h) If shift speeds are not recommended by the manufacturer, manual transmission vehicles shall be shifted as follows:

(1) For Class I and II motorcycles:

(2) For Class III motorcycles:

(3) Higher gears may be used at the manufacturer's option.
