
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.529-98 Road load force and inertia weight determination.

(a)(1) Road load as a function of speed is given by the following equation:

(2) The values for coefficients A and C and the test inertia are given in Figure F98-9 of this section. Velocity V is in km/h and force (F) is in newtons. The forces given by the equation in paragraph (a)(1) of this section shall be simulated to the best ability of the equipment being used.

(b) The inertia given in Figure F98-9 shall be used. Motorcycles with loaded vehicle mass outside these limits shall be tested at an equivalent inertial mass and road load force specified by the Administrator. Figure F98-9 follows:

(c) The dynamometer shall be adjusted to reproduce the specified road load as determined by the most recent calibration. Alternatively, the actual vehicle road load can be measured and duplicated:

(1) Make at least 5 replicate coastdowns in each direction from 70 to 60 km/h on a smooth, level track under balanced wind conditions. The driver must have a mass of 80 +/-10 kg and be in the normal driving position. Record the coastdown time.

(2) Average the coastdown times. Adjust the dynamometer load so that the coastdown time is duplicated with the vehicle and driver on the dynamometer.

(3) Alternate procedures may be used if approved in advance by the Administrator.
