
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.540-90 Exhaust sample analysis.

The following sequence of operations shall be performed in conjunction with each series of measurements:

(a) For CO, CO, gasoline-fueled, natural gas-fueled, liquefied petroleum gas-fueled and methanol-fueled motorcycle HC and, if appropriate, NO:

(1) Zero the analyzers and obtain a stable zero reading. Recheck after tests.

(2) Introduce span gases and set instrument gains. In order to avoid errors, span and calibrate at the same flow rates used to analyze the test sample. Span gases should have concentrations equal to 75 to 100 percent of full scale. If gain has shifted significantly on the analyzers, check the calibrations. Show actual concentrations on chart.

(3) Check zeros; repeat the procedure in paragraphs (a) (1) and (2) of this section if required.

(4) Check flow rates and pressures.

(5) Measure HC, CO, CO, and, if appropriate, NO. concentrations of samples.

(6) Check zero and span points. If difference is greater than 2 percent of full scale, repeat the procedure in paragraphs (a) (1) through (5) of this section.

(b) For CHOH (methanol-fueled vehicles), introduce test samples into the gas chromatograph and measure the concentration. This concentration is Cin the calculations.

(c) For HCHO (methanol-fueled vehicles), introduce test samples into the high pressure liquid chromatograph and measure the concentration of formaldehyde as a dinitropheylhydrazine derivative in acetonitrile. This concentration is Cin the calculations.
