
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.536-78 Engine starting and restarting.
####### Choke operation.

(2)(i) Vehicles equipped with automatic chokes shall be operated according to the instructions in the manufacturer's operating instructions or owner's manual including choke setting and "kick-down" from cold fast idle. The transmission shall be placed in gear 15 seconds after the engine is started. If necessary, braking may be employed to keep the drive wheels from turning.

(ii) Vehicles equipped with manual chokes shall be operated according to the manufacturer's operating instructions or owner's manual. Where times are provided in the instructions, the Administrator may specify the specific point for operation, within 15 seconds of the recommended time.

(3) The operator may use the choke, throttle etc. where necessary to keep the engine running.

(4) If the manufacturer's operating instructions or owner's manual do not specify a warm engine starting procedure, the engine (automatic and manual choke engines) shall be started by opening the throttle about half way and cranking the engine until it starts.

(b) [Reserved]

(c) If, during the cold start, the vehicle does not start after 10 seconds of cranking, or ten cycles of the manual starting mechanism, cranking shall cease and the reason for failure to start determined. The revolution counter on the constant volume sampler shall be turned off and the sample solenoid valves placed in the "standby" position during this diagnostic period. In addition, either the CVS blower shall be turned off or the exhaust tube disconnected from the tailpipe during the diagnostic period.

(1) If failure to start is an operational error, the vehicle shall be rescheduled for testing from a cold start. If failure to start is caused by vehicle malfunction, corrective action (following the unscheduled maintenance provisions) of less than 30 minutes duration may be taken and the test continued. The sampling system shall be reactivated at the same time cranking is started. When the engine starts, the driving schedule timing sequence shall begin. If failure to start is caused by vehicle malfunction and the vehicle cannot be started, the test shall be voided, the vehicle removed from the dynamometer, corrective action taken (following the unscheduled maintenance provisions), and the vehicle rescheduled for test. The reason for the malfunction (if determined) and the corrective action taken shall be reported.

(2) If the vehicle does not start during the hot start after ten seconds of cranking, or ten cycles of the manual starting mechanism, cranking shall cease, the test shall be voided, the vehicle removed from the dynamometer, corrective action taken in accordance with ยง 86.428 or ยง 86.429, and the vehicle rescheduled for test. The reason for the malfunction (if determined) and the corrective action taken shall be reported.

(d) If the engine "false starts", the operator shall repeat the recommended starting procedure (such as resetting the choke, etc.)
