
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### ยง 86.542-90 Records required.
####### Dynamometer serial number:

(g)As an alternative to recording the dynamometer serial number, a reference to a vehicle test cell number may be used, with the advance approval of the Administrator, provided the test cell records show the pertinent instrument information.

(h) All pertinent instrument information such as tuning-gain-serial number-detector number-range. As an alternative, a reference to a vehicle test cell number may be used, with the advance approval of the Administrator, provided test cell calibration records show the pertinent instrument information.

(i) Recorder Charts: Identify zero, span, exhaust gas, and dilution air sample traces.

(j) Test cell barometric pressure, ambient temperature and humidity.

(k) [Reserved]

(l) Pressure of the mixture of exhaust and dilution air entering the CVS metering device, the pressure increase across the device, and the temperature at the inlet. The temperature may be recorded continuously or digitally to determine temperature variations.

(m) The number of revolutions of the positive displacement pump accumulated during each test phase while exhaust samples are being collected. The number of standard cubic meters metered by a critical flow venturi during each test phase would be the equivalent record for a CFV-CVS.

(n) The humidity of the dilution air.

(o) The driving distance for each of the three phases of test, calculated from the measured roll or shaft revolutions.

(p) Additional required records for methanol-fueled vehicles:

(1) Specification of the methanol fuel, or fuel mixtures, used during testing.

(2) Volume of sample passed through the methanol sampling system and the volume of deionized water in each impinger.

(3) The methanol calibration information from the GC standards.

(4) The concentration of the GC analyses of the test samples (methanol).

(5) Volume of sample passed through the formaldehyde sampling system.

(6) The formaldehyde calibration information from the HPLC standards.

(7) The concentration of the HPLC analysis of the test sample (formaldehyde).
