
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart F - Emission Regulations for 1978 and Later New Motorcycles; Test Procedures
###### § 86.537-90 Dynamometer test runs.

(a) The vehicle shall be allowed to stand with the engine turned off (see § 86.532 for required time). The vehicle shall be stored prior to the emission test in such a manner that precipitation (e.g., rain or dew) does not occur on the vehicle. The complete dynamometer test consists of a cold start drive of 12.0 km (7.5 mi), (10.9 km (6.8 mi) for Class I motorcycles) and simulates a hot start drive of 12.0 km (7.5 mi), (10.9 km (6.8 mi) for Class I motorcycles). The vehicle is allowed to stand on the dynamometer during the 10-minute period between the cold and hot start tests. The cold start is divided into two periods. The first period, representing the cold start "transient" phase, terminates at the end of the deceleration which is scheduled to occur at 505 seconds of the driving schedule. The second period, representing the "stabilized" phase, consists of the remainder of the driving schedule including engine shutdown. The hot start test similarly consists of two periods. The period, representing the hot start "transient" phase, terminates at the same point in the driving schedule at the first point of the cold start test. The second period of the hot start test, "stabilized" phase, is assumed to be identical to the second period of the cold start test. Therefore, the hot start test terminates after the first period (505 seconds) is run.

(b) The following steps shall be taken for each test:

(1) Place drive wheel of vehicle on dynamometer without starting engine.

(2) Activate vehicle cooling fan.

(3) For all vehicles, with the sample selector valves in the "standby" position connect evacuated sample collection bags to the dilute exhaust and dilution air sample collection systems.

(4) For methanol-fueled vehicles, with the sample selector valves in the "standby" position, insert fresh sample collection impingers into the methanol sample collection system, fresh impingers or a fresh cartridge into the formaldehyde sample collection system and fresh impingers (or a single cartridge for formaldehyde) into the dilution air sample collection systems for methanol and formaldehyde (background measurements of methanol and formaldehyde may be omitted and concentrations assumed to be zero for calculations in § 86.544).

(5) Start the CVS (if not already on), the sample pumps and the temperature recorder. (The heat exchanger of the constant volume sampler, if used, methanol-fueled vehicle hydrocarbon analyzer and sample lines should be preheated to their respective operating temperatures before the test begins.)

(6) Adjust the sample flow rates to the desired flow rate and set the gas flow measuring devices to zero.

(i) For gaseous bag samples (except hydrocarbon samples), the minimum flow rate is 0.17 cfm (0.08 l/s).

(ii) For hydrocarbon samples, the minimum FID (or HFID in the case of methanol-fueled vehicles) flow rate is 0.066 cfm (0.031 l/s).

(iii) For methanol samples, the flow rates shall be set such that the system meets the design criteria of § 86.509. For samples in which the concentration in the primary impinger exceeds 0.5 mg/l, it is recommended that the mass of methanol collected in the secondary impinger not exceed ten percent of the total mass collected. For samples in which the concentration in the primary impinger does not exceed 0.5 mg/l, secondary impingers do not need to be analyzed.

(iv) For formaldehyde samples, the flow rates shall be set such that the system meets the design criteria of § 86.509. For impinger samples in which the concentration of formaldehyde in the primary impinger exceeds 0.1 mg/l, it is recommended that the mass of formaldehyde collected in the secondary impinger not exceed ten percent of the total mass collected. For samples in which the concentration in the primary impinger does not exceed 0.1 mg/l, secondary impingers do not need to be analyzed.

(7) Attach the flexible exhaust tube to the vehicle tailpipe(s).

(8) Start the gas flow measuring device, position the sample selector valves to direct the sample flow into the "transient" exhaust sample bag, the "transient" methanol exhaust sample, the "transient" formaldehyde exhaust sample, the "transient" dilution air sample bag, the "transient" methanol dilution air sample and the "transient" formaldehyde dilution air sample, turn the key on, and start cranking the engine.

(9) Fifteen seconds after the engine starts, place the transmission in gear.

(10) Twenty seconds after the engine starts, begin the initial vehicle acceleration of the driving schedule.

(11) Operate the vehicle according to the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (§ 86.515).

(12) At the end of the deceleration which is scheduled to occur at 505 seconds, simultaneously switch the sample flows from the "transient" bags and samples to "stabilized" bags and samples, switch off gas flow measuring device No. 1 and, start gas flow measuring device No. 2. Before the acceleration which is scheduled to occur at 510 seconds, record the measured roll or shaft revolutions and reset the counter or switch to a second counter. As soon as possible, transfer the "stabilized" exhaust and dilution air samples to the analytical system and process the samples according to § 86.540, obtaining a stabilized reading of the exhaust bag sample on all analyzers within 20 minutes of the end of the sample collection phase of the test. Obtain methanol and formaldehyde sample analyses, if applicable, within 24 hours of the end of the sample period. (If it is not possible to perform analysis on the methanol and formaldehyde samples within 24 hours, the samples should be stored in a dark cold (4-10 &#xB0;C) environment until analysis. The samples should be analyzed within fourteen days.)

(13) Turn the engine off 2 seconds after the end of the last deceleration (at 1,369 seconds).

(14) Five seconds after the engine stops running, simultaneously turn off gas flow measuring device No. 2 and position the sample selector valves to the "standby" position (and open the valves isolating particulate filter No. 1, if applicable). Record the measured roll or shaft revolutions (both gas meter or flow measurement instrumentation readings) and re-set the counter. As soon as possible, transfer the "stabilized" exhaust and dilution air samples to the analytical system and process the samples according to § 86.540, obtaining a stabilized reading of the exhaust bag sample on all analyzers within 20 minutes of the end of the sample collection phase of the test. Obtain methanol and formaldehyde sample analyses, if applicable, within 24 hours of the end of the sample period. (If it is not possible to perform analysis on the methanol and formaldehyde samples within 24 hours, the samples should be stored in a dark cold (4-10 &#xB0;C) environment until analysis. The samples should be analyzed within fourteen days.)

(15) Immediately after the end of the sample period, turn off the cooling fan.

(16) Turn off the CVS or disconnect the exhaust tube from the tailpipe(s) of the vehicle.

(17) Repeat the steps in paragraph (b) (2) through (11) of this section for the hot start test, except only two evacuated sample bags, two methanol sample impingers, and two formaldehyde sample impingers are required. The step in paragraph (b)(8) of this section shall begin between 9 and 11 minutes after the end of the sample period for the cold start test.

(18) At the end of the deceleration which is scheduled to occur at 505 seconds, simultaneously turn off gas flow measuring device No. 1 and position the sample selector valve to the "standby" position. (Engine shutdown is not part of the hot start test sample period.) Record the measured roll or shaft revolutions.

(19) As soon as possible, transfer the hot start "transient" exhaust and dilution air bag samples to the analytical system and process the samples according to § 86.540 obtaining a stabilized reading of the bag exhaust sample on all analyzers within 20 minutes of the end of the sample collection phase of the test. Obtain methanol and formaldehyde sample analyses, if applicable, within 24 hours of the end of the sample period (if it is not possible to perform analysis on the methanol and formaldehyde samples within 24 hours, the samples should be stored in a dark, cold (∼ 0 &#xB0;C) environment until analysis).

(20) Disconnect the exhaust tube from the vehicle tailpipe(s) and remove the vehicle from dynamometer.

(21) The CVS or CFV may be turned off, if desired.

(22) Continuous monitoring of exhaust emissions will not normally be allowed. Specific written approval must be obtained from the Administrator for continuous monitoring of exhaust emissions.
