
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Selective Enforcement Auditing of New Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.603-98 Test orders.

Section 86.603-98 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.603-88. Where a paragraph in § 86.603-88 is identical and applicable to § 86.603-98, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement "[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.603-88." Where a corresponding paragraph of § 86.603-88 is not applicable, this is indicated by the statement "[Reserved].".

(a) through (c) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.603-88.

(d) A manufacturer may indicate preferred assembly plants for the various engine families and evaporative/refueling families produced by the manufacturer for selection of vehicles in response to a test order. This shall be accomplished by submitting a list of engine families with the associated evaporative/refueling families, and the corresponding assembly plants from which the manufacturer desires to have vehicles selected, to the Administrator. In order that a manufacturer's preferred location for issuance of a test order for a configuration of a particular engine family and/or evaporative/refueling family be considered, the list must be submitted prior to issuance of the test order. Notwithstanding the fact that a manufacturer has submitted the above list, the Administrator may, upon making the determination that evidence exists indicating noncompliance at other than the manufacturer's preferred plant, order selection at such other plant where vehicles of the configuration specified in the test order are assembled.

(e) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.603-88.

(f) In the event evidence exists indicating an engine family is in noncompliance, the Administrator may, in addition to other powers provided by this section, issue a test order specifying the engine family the manufacturer is required to test.
