
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Selective Enforcement Auditing of New Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.605-88 Maintenance of records; submittal of information.
####### Individual records.

(2)These records pertain to each audit conducted pursuant to this subpart.

(i) The location where audit testing was performed, and the date and time for each emissions test.

(ii) The number of miles on the test vehicle when the test began and ended.

(iii) The names of supervisory personnel responsible for the conduct of the audit.

(iv) A record and description of any repairs performed prior to and/or subsequent to approval by the Administrator, giving the date and time of the repair, the reason for it, the person authorizing it, and the names of supervisory personnel responsible for the repair.

(v) The dates when the test vehicles were shipped from the assembly plant or the storage facility and when they were received at the testing facility.

(vi) The drive wheel tire pressure and the inertia weight class for each test vehicle, and the actual curb weight for each test vehicle required to be weighed pursuant to a test order.

(vii) A complete record of all emission tests performed pursuant to this subpart (except tests performed by EPA directly) including all individual worksheets and/or other documentation relating to each test, or exact copies thereof.

(viii) A brief description of all significant audit events, commencing with the test vehicle selection process, but not described by any other subparagraph under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, including such extraordinary events as vehicle accident.

(ix) A paper copy of the driver's trace for each test.

(3) Additional required records for diesel vehicles.

(4) The manufacturer shall record test equipment description, pursuant to paragraph (a)(1) of this section, for each test cell that is used to perform emission testing under this subpart.
