
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Selective Enforcement Auditing of New Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.608-98 Test procedures.

(a) The prescribed test procedures are the Federal Test Procedure, as described in subpart B of this part, and the cold temperature CO test procedure as described in subpart C of this part. For purposes of Selective Enforcement Audit testing, the manufacturer shall not be required to perform any of the test procedures in subpart B of this part relating to evaporative emission testing, other than refueling emissions testing, except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section.

(1) The Administrator may omit any of the testing procedures described in paragraph (a) of this section. Further, the Administrator may, on the basis of a written application by a manufacturer, approve optional test procedures other than those in subparts B and C of this part for any motor vehicle which is not susceptible to satisfactory testing using the procedures in subparts B and C of this part.

(2) The following exceptions to the test procedures in subpart B of this part are applicable to Selective Enforcement Audit testing:

(i) For mileage accumulation, the manufacturer may use test fuel meeting the specifications for mileage and service accumulation fuels of § 86.113. Otherwise, the manufacturer may use fuels other than those specified in this section only with the advance approval of the Administrator.

(ii) The manufacturer may measure the temperature of the test fuel at other than the approximate mid-volume of the fuel tank, as specified in § 86.131-96(a) with only a single temperature sensor, and may drain the test fuel from other than the lowest point of the tank, as specified in §§ 86.131-96(b) and 86.152-98(a), provided an equivalent method is used. Equivalency documentation shall be maintained by the manufacturers and shall be made available to the Administrator upon request. Additionally, for any test vehicle that has remained under laboratory ambient temperature conditions for at least 6 hours prior to testing, the vehicle soak described in § 86.132-96(c) may be eliminated upon approval of the Administrator. In such cases, the vehicle shall be operated through the preconditioning drive described in § 86.132-96(c) immediately following the fuel drain and fill procedure described in § 86.132-96(b).

(iii) The manufacturer may perform additional preconditioning on Selective Enforcement Audit test vehicles other than the preconditioning specified in § 86.132 only if the additional preconditioning was performed on certification test vehicles of the same configuration.

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The manufacturer may substitute slave tires for the drive wheel tires on the vehicle as specified in § 86.135-90(e): Provided, that the slave tires are the same size.

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) In performing exhaust sample analysis under § 86.140-94.

(A) When testing diesel vehicles, or methanol-fueled Otto-cycle vehicles, the manufacturer shall allow a minimum of 20 minutes warm-up for the HC analyzer, and for diesel vehicles, a minimum of two hours warm-up for the CO, CO2 and NOanalyzers. (Power is normally left on infrared and chemiluminescent analyzers. When not in use, the chopper motors of the infrared analyzers are turned off and the phototube high voltage supply to the chemiluminescent analyzers is placed in the standby position.)

(B) The manufacturer shall exercise care to prevent moisture from condensing in the sample collection bags.

(viii) The manufacturer need not comply with § 86.142 or § 86.155, since the records required therein are provided under other provisions of this subpart G.

(ix) If a manufacturer elects to perform the background determination procedure described in paragraph (a)(2)(xi) of this section in addition to performing the refueling emissions test procedure, the elapsed time between the initial and final FID readings shall be recorded, rounded to the nearest second rather than minute as described in § 86.154-98(e)(8). In addition, the vehicle soak described in § 86.153-98(e) shall be conducted with the windows and luggage compartment of the vehicle open.

(x) The Administrator may elect to perform a seal test, described in § 86.153-98(b), of both integrated and non-integrated systems instead of the full refueling test. When testing non-integrated systems, a manufacturer may conduct the canister purge described in § 86.153-98(b)(1) directly following the preconditioning drive described in § 86.132-96(e) or directly following the exhaust emissions test described in § 86.137-96.

(xi) In addition to the refueling test, a manufacturer may elect to perform the following background emissions determination immediately prior to the refueling measurement procedure described in § 86.154, provided EPA is notified of this decision prior to the start of testing in an SEA.

(A) The SHED shall be purged for several minutes immediately prior to the background determination. Warning: If at any time the concentration of hydrocarbons, of methanol, or of methanol and hydrocarbons exceeds 15,000 ppm C, the enclosure should be immediately purged. This concentration provides a 4:1 safety factor against the lean flammability limit.

(B) The FID (or HFID) hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the background determination. If not already on, the enclosure mixing fan and the spilled fuel mixing blower shall be turned on at this time.

(C) Place the vehicle in the SHED. The ambient temperature level encountered by the test vehicle during the entire background emissions determination shall be 80 &#xB0;F +/-3 &#xB0;F. The windows and luggage compartment of the vehicle must be open and the gas cap must be secured.

(D) Seal the SHED. Immediately analyze the ambient concentration of hydrocarbons in the SHED and record. This is the initial background hydrocarbon concentration.

(E) Soak the vehicle for ten minutes +/-1 minute.

(F) The FID (or HFID) hydrocarbon analyzer shall be zeroed and spanned immediately prior to the end of the background determination.

(G) Analyze the ambient concentration of hydrocarbons in the SHED and record. This is the final background hydrocarbon concentration.

(H) The total hydrocarbon mass emitted during the background determination is calculated according to § 86.156. To obtain a per-minute background emission rate, divide the total hydrocarbon mass calculated in this paragraph by the duration of the soak, rounded to the nearest second, described in paragraph (a)(2)(xi)(G) of this section.

(I) The background emission rate is multiplied by the duration of the refueling measurement obtained in paragraph (a)(2)(ix) of this section. This number is then subtracted from the total grams of emissions calculated for the refueling test according to § 86.156-98(a) to obtain the adjusted value for total refueling emissions. The final results for comparison with the refueling emission standard shall be computed by dividing the adjusted value for total refueling mass emissions by the total gallons of fuel dispensed in the refueling test as described in § 86.156-98(b).

(xii) In addition to the requirements of subpart B of this part, the manufacturer shall prepare gasoline-fueled and methanol-fueled vehicles as follows prior to emission testing:

(A) The manufacturer shall inspect the fuel system to ensure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5+/-0.5 inches of water (3.6+/-0.1 kPa) to the fuel system, allowing the pressure to stabilize, and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Following isolation of the fuel system, pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 kPa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer shall perform corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and report this action in accordance with § 86.609-98(d).

(B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer shall exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control systems.

(C) The manufacturer may not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control systems by component addition, deletion, or substitution, except to comply with paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(3) The following exceptions to the test procedures in subpart C of this part are applicable to Selective Enforcement Audit testing:

(i) The manufacturer may measure the temperature of the test fuel at other than the approximate mid-volume of the fuel tank, as specified in § 86.107-96(e), and may drain the test fuel from other than the lowest point of the fuel tank, provided an equivalent method is used. Equivalency documentation shall be maintained by the manufacturer and shall be made available to the Administrator upon request.

(ii) In performing exhaust sample analysis under § 86.140, the manufacturer shall exercise care to prevent moisture from condensing in the sample collection bags.

(iii) The manufacturer need not comply with § 86.142 since the records required therein are provided under other provisions of this subpart G.

(iv) In addition to the requirements of subpart C of this part, the manufacturer shall prepare gasoline-fueled vehicles as follows prior to exhaust emission testing:

(A) The manufacturer shall inspect the fuel system to ensure the absence of any leaks of liquid or vapor to the atmosphere by applying a pressure of 14.5+/-0.5 inches of water (3.6+/-0.1 kPa) to the fuel system allowing the pressure to stabilize and isolating the fuel system from the pressure source. Following isolation of the fuel system, pressure must not drop more than 2.0 inches of water (0.5 kPa) in five minutes. If required, the manufacturer shall perform corrective action in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section and report this action in accordance with § 86.609-98(d).

(B) When performing this pressure check, the manufacturer shall exercise care to neither purge nor load the evaporative or refueling emission control system.

(C) The manufacturer shall not modify the test vehicle's evaporative or refueling emission control system by component addition, deletion, or substitution, except if approved in advance by the Administrator, to comply with paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section.

(b)(1) The manufacturer shall not adjust, repair, prepare, or modify the vehicles selected for testing and shall not perform any emission tests on vehicles selected for testing pursuant to the test order unless this adjustment repair, preparation, modification, and/or tests are documented in the manufacturer's vehicle assembly and inspection procedures and are actually performed or unless these adjustments and/or tests are required or permitted under this subpart or are approved in advance by the Administrator.

(2) For 1981 and later model years the Administrator may adjust or cause to be adjusted any engine or vehicle parameter which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment for new vehicle compliance testing (e.g., for certification or Selective Enforcement Audit testing) in accordance with § 86.081-22(c)(1), to any setting within the physically adjustable range of that parameter, as determined by the Administrator in accordance with § 86.081-22(e)(3)(ii), prior to the performance of any tests. However, if the idle speed parameter is one which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment, the Administrator shall not adjust it to a setting which causes a lower engine idle speed than will be possible within the physically adjustable range of the idle speed parameter on the vehicle when it has accumulated 4,000 miles, all other parameters being adjusted identically for the purpose of comparison. The Administrator, in making or specifying such adjustments, will consider the effect of the deviation from the manufacturer's recommended setting on emissions performance characteristics as well as the likelihood that similar settings will occur on in-use light-duty vehicles or light-duty trucks. In determining likelihood, the Administrator will consider factors such as, but not limited to, the effect of the adjustment on vehicle performance characteristics and surveillance information from similar in-use vehicles.

(c) Prior to performing emission testing pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section on an SEA test vehicle, the manufacturer may accumulate on each vehicle a number of miles equal to the greater of 4,000 miles, or the number of miles the manufacturer accumulated during certification on the emission-data vehicle corresponding to the configuration specified in the test order.

(1) Mileage accumulation must be performed in any manner using good engineering judgment to obtain emission results representative of normal production vehicles. This mileage accumulation must be consistent with the new vehicle break-in instructions contained in the applicable vehicle owner's manual, if any.

(2) The manufacturer shall accumulate mileage at a minimum rate of 300 miles per vehicle during each 24-hour period, unless otherwise provided by the Administrator.

(i) The first 24-hour period for mileage accumulation shall begin as soon as authorized vehicle checks, inspections and preparations are completed on each vehicle.

(ii) The minimum mileage accumulation rate does not apply on weekends or holidays.

(iii) If the manufacturer's mileage accumulation target is less than the minimum rate specified (300 miles per day), then the minimum daily accumulation rate shall be equal to the manufacturer's mileage accumulation target.

(3) Mileage accumulation shall be completed on a sufficient number of test vehicles during consecutive 24-hour periods to assure that the number of vehicles tested per day fulfills the requirements of paragraph (g) of this section.

(d) The manufacturer shall not perform any maintenance on test vehicles after selection for testing nor shall the Administrator allow deletion of any test vehicle from the test sequence, unless requested by the manufacturer and approved by the Administrator before any test vehicle maintenance of deletion.

(e) The manufacturer will be allowed 24 hours to ship test vehicles from the assembly plant or storage facility to the test facility if the test facility is not located at the plant or storage facility or in close proximity to the plant or storage facility: Except, that the Administrator may approve more time based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification.

(f) If a vehicle cannot complete the mileage accumulation or emission tests because of vehicle malfunction, the manufacturer may request the Administrator to authorize the repair of that vehicle or its deletion from the test sequence.

(g) Whenever the manufacturer conducts testing pursuant to a test order issued under this subpart, the manufacturer shall notify the Administrator within one working day of receipt of the test order, which test facility will be used to comply with the test order and the number of available test cells at that facility. If no test cells are available at the desired facility, the manufacturer must provide alternate testing capability satisfactory to the Administrator.

(1) The manufacturer shall perform a combination of tests pursuant to paragraph (a) of this section so that a minimum of four tests are performed per 24 hour period, including voided tests, for each available test cell.

(2) The Administrator may approve a longer period based upon a request by a manufacturer accompanied by satisfactory justification.

(h) The manufacturer shall perform test vehicle selection, preparation, mileage accumulation, shipping, and testing in such a manner as to assure that the audit is performed in an expeditious manner.

(i) The manufacturer may retest any test vehicle after a fail decision has been reached in accordance with § 86.610-98(d) based on the first test on each vehicle; except that the Administrator may approve retests at other times during the audit based upon a request by the manufacturer accompanied by a satisfactory justification. The manufacturer may test each vehicle a total of three times. The manufacturer shall test each vehicle the same number of times. The manufacturer may accumulate additional mileage on test vehicles before conducting retests, subject to the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.
