
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Selective Enforcement Auditing of New Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.610-98 Compliance with acceptable quality level and passing and failing criteria for Selective Enforcement Audits.
####### Pass/fail criteria.

(c)(1)The manufacturer shall test vehicles comprising the test sample until a pass decision is reached for all of the pollutants associated with all of the test procedures pursuant to ยง 86.608-98(a) or a fail decision is reached for one of these pollutants. A pass decision is reached when the cumulative number of failed vehicles, as defined in paragraph (b) of this section, for each pollutant is less than or equal to the fail decision number appropriate to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. A fail decision is reached when the cumulative number of failed vehicles for one pollutant is greater than or equal to the fail decision number appropriate to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. The pass and fail decision numbers associated with the cumulative number of vehicles tested are determined by use of the tables in appendix XI of this part appropriate for the annual projected sales as made by the manufacturer in its report submitted under ยง 600.207-80(a)(2) of this chapter (Automobile Fuel Economy Regulations). In the tables in appendix XI of this part, sampling plan "stage" refers to the cumulative number of vehicles tested. Once a pass decision has been made for a particular pollutant associated with a particular test procedure pursuant to ยง 86.608-98(a), the number of vehicles whose final deteriorated test results exceed the emission standard for that pollutant may not be considered any further for purposes of the audit.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) Passing or failing of an SEA audit occurs when the decision is made on the last vehicle required to make a decision under paragraph (c) of this section.

(e) The Administrator may terminate testing earlier than required in paragraph (c) of this section.
