
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart G - Selective Enforcement Auditing of New Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.609-98 Calculation and reporting of test results.
####### Exceptions.

(2)There are no deterioration factors for light-duty vehicle emissions obtained during spitback testing in accordance with ยง 86.146. Accordingly, for the fuel dispensing spitback test, the term "final deteriorated test results" means the final test results derived in paragraph (b) of this section for each test vehicle, rounded to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable emission standard.

(d) Within five working days after completion of testing of all vehicles pursuant to a test order, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a report which includes the following information:

(1) The location and description of the manufacturer's emission test facilities which were utilized to conduct testing reported pursuant to this section.

(2) The applicable standards against which the vehicles were tested.

(3) Deterioration factors for the selected configuration.

(4) A description of the vehicle selection method used.

(5) For each test conducted.

(i) Test vehicle description including:

(A) Configuration, engine family, and refueling family identification.

(B) Year, make, build date, and model of vehicle.

(C) Vehicle Identification Number.

(D) Miles accumulated on vehicle.

(ii) Location where mileage accumulation was conducted and description of accumulation schedule.

(iii) Test number, date initial test results, final results and final deteriorated test results for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests, and the reason for invalidation.

(iv) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance and/or testing which was performed on the test vehicle and:

(A) Has not been reported pursuant to any other paragraph of this subpart; and

(B) Will not be performed on all other production vehicles.

(v) Carbon dioxide emission values for all valid and invalid exhaust emission tests.

(vi) Where a vehicle was deleted from the test sequence by authorization of the Administrator, the reason for the deletion.

(vii) Any other information the Administrator may request relevant to the determination as to whether the new motor vehicles being manufactured by the manufacturer do in fact conform with the regulations with respect to which the certificate of conformity was issued.

(6) The following statement and endorsement:
