
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1102-87 Definitions.
####### Subclass

means a classification of heavy-duty engines of heavy-duty vehicles based on such factors as gross vehicle weight rating, fuel usage (gasoline-, diesel-, and methanol-fueled), vehicle usage, engine horsepower or additional criteria that the Administrator shall apply. Subclasses include, but are not limited to:

(i) Light-duty gasoline-fueled Otto cycle trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)

(ii) Light-duty methanol-fueled Otto cycle trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)

(iii) Light-duty petroleum-fueled diesel trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)

(iv) Light-duty methanol-fueled diesel trucks (6,001-8,500 lb. GVW)

(v) Light heavy-duty gasoline-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 8,501-14,000 lb. GVW)

(vi) Light heavy-duty methanol-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 8,501-14,000 lb. GVW)

(vii) Heavy heavy-duty gasoline-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 14,001 lb and above GVW)

(viii) Heavy heavy-duty methanol-fueled Otto cycle engines (for use in vehicles of 14,001 lb. and above GVW)

(ix) Light heavy-duty petroleum-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(1))

(x) Light heavy-duty methanol-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(1))

(xi) Medium heavy-duty petroleum-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(2))

(xii) Medium heavy-duty methanol-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(2))

(xiii) Heavy heavy-duty petroleum-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(3))

(xiv) Heavy heavy-duty methanol-fueled diesel engines (see § 86.085-2(a)(3))

(xv) Petroleum-fueled Urban Bus engines (see § 86.091-2)

(xvi) Methanol-fueled Urban Bus engines (see § 86.091-2).

For NCP purposes, all optionally certified engines and/or vehicles (engines certified in accordance with § 86.087-10(a)(3) and vehicles certified in accordance with § 86.085-1(b)) shall be considered part of, and included in the FRAC calculation of, the subclass for which they are optionally certified.
