
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1105-87 Emission standards for which nonconformance penalties are available.
####### 4

() F: 1.2.

(B) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.11.

(3) Petroleum-fueled diesel light-duty trucks (between 6,001 and 14,000 lbs GVW) particulate matter emission standard of 0.13 grams per vehicle mile.

(i) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):

(A) COC: $711.

(B) COC: $1,396.

(C) MC: $2,960 per gram per brake horsepower-hour.

(D) F: 1.2.

(ii) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.01.

(d) Effective in the 1993 model year, NCPs will be available for the following additional emission standard:

(1) Petroleum-fueled diesel bus engine (as defined in § 86.093-2) particulate emission standard of 0.10 grams per brake horsepower-hour.

(i) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.093-11(a)(1)(iv)(A) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):

(A) COC: $4,020.

(B) COC: $4,535.

(C) MC: $22,971 per gram per brake horsepower-hour.

(D) F: 1.2.

(E) UL: 0.25 grams per brake horsepower-hour.

(ii) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.093-11(a)(1)(iv)(A) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.02.

(2) [Reserved]

(e) The values of COC, COC, and MCin paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section are expressed in December 1984 dollars. The values of COC, COC, and MCin paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section are expressed in December 1989 dollars. The values of COC, COC, and MCin paragraph (f) of this section are expressed in December 1991 dollars. The values of COC, COC, and MCin paragraphs (g) and (h) of this section are expressed in December 1994 dollars. The values of COC, COC, and MCin paragraph (i) of this section are expressed in December 2001 dollars. These values shall be adjusted for inflation to dollars as of January of the calendar year preceding the model year in which the NCP is first available by using the change in the overall Consumer Price Index, and rounded to the nearest whole dollar.

(f) Effective in the 1994 model year, NCPs will be available for the following emission standards:

(1) Petroleum-fueled urban bus engine (as defined in § 86.091-2) particulate emission standard of 0.07 grams per brake horsepower-hour.

(i) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-11(a)(1)(iv)(A) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):

(A) COC: $3292.

(B) COC: $10,014.

(C) MC: $109,733.

(D) F: 1.2.

(ii) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-11(a)(1)(iv)(A) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.38.

(2) Petroleum-fueled diesel heavy-duty engine particulate matter emission standard of 0.10 grams per brake horsepower-hour.

(i) For petroleum-fueled light heavy-duty diesel engines:

(A) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):
