
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1105-87 Emission standards for which nonconformance penalties are available.
####### 4

() F: 1.2.

(B) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.083.

(g) Effective in the 1996 model year, NCPs will be available for the following emission standard:

(1) Light-duty truck 3 diesel-fueled vehicle at full useful life (as defined in § 86.094-2) particulate matter emission standard of 0.10 g/mi.

(i) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-9(a)(1)(ii) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):

(A) COC: $441.

(B) COC: $1,471.

(C) MC: $14,700 per gram per mile.

(D) F: 1.2.

(ii) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-9(a)(1)(ii) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.093.

(2) Light-duty truck 3 diesel-fueled vehicle at full useful life (as defined in § 86.094-2) oxides of nitrogen emission standard of 0.98 g/mi.

(i) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-9(a)(1)(ii) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):

(A) COC: $654.

(B) COC: $779.

(C) MC: $908 per gram per mile.

(D) F: 1.2.

(ii) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-9(a)(1)(ii) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.082.

(3) 1996 Urban Bus (as defined in § 86.094-2) particulate matter emission standard of 0.05 g/BHp-hr.

(i) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-9(a)(1)(ii) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):

(A) COC: $576.

(B) COC: $6,569.

(C) MC: $28,800 per gram per brake horsepower-hour.

(D) F: 1.2.

(ii) The following factor shall be used to calculate the engineering and development component of the NCP for the standard set forth in § 86.094-9(a)(1)(ii) in accordance with § 86.1113-87(h): 0.500.

(h) Effective in the 1998 model year, NCPs will be available for the following emission standard:

(1) Petroleum-fueled diesel heavy-duty engine oxides of nitrogen standard of 4.0 grams per brake horsepower-hour.

(i) For petroleum-fueled light heavy-duty diesel engines:

(A) The following values shall be used to calculate an NCP in accordance with § 86.1113-87(a):
