
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1112-87 Determining the compliance level and reporting of test results.

(a) A manufacturer that has elected to conduct a PCA in accordance with § 86.1106-87 may establish the compliance level for a pollutant for any engine or vehicle configuration by using the primary PCA sampling plan or either of two optional reduced PCA sampling plans (the fixed reduced sampling plan or the sequential reduced sampling plan) described below. A manufacturer that uses either of the two optional reduced PCA sampling plans may elect to continue testing and establish a compliance level under the primary PCA sampling plan.

(1) A manufacturer that elects to conduct a PCA for a pollutant using the primary PCA sampling plan shall:

(i) Conduct emission tests on 24 engines or vehicles in accordance with § 86.1111-87 for the pollutants for which the PCA was initiated. If the PCA follows an SEA failure, the number of additional tests conducted shall be the difference between 24 and the number of engines or vehicles tested in the SEA. If 24 or more engines or vehicles were tested in the SEA, no additional tests shall be conducted; and

(ii) Rank the final deteriorated test results, as defined by paragraph (e) of this section, obtained for that pollutant in order from the lowest to the highest value. If the PCA follows an SEA failure, all SEA test results for that pollutant shall be included in this ranking.

(iii) The compliance level for that pollutant is the final deteriorated test result in the sequence determined from table 1 of appendix XII of these regulations.

(2) A manufacturer that elects to conduct a PCA for a pollutant using the fixed reduced PCA sampling plan shall:

(i) Select a sample size between 3 and 23 engines or vehicles. If the PCA follows an SEA failure, the sample size selected cannot be less than the number of engines or vehicles tested during the SEA; and

(ii) Conduct emission tests on the selected sample in accordance with § 86.1111-87 for the pollutants for which the PCA was initiated.

(iii) The compliance level for the pollutant is the result of the following equation, using the test results obtained in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section and all SEA test results for that pollutant if the PCA follows an SEA failure:

(3) A manufacturer that elects to conduct a PCA for a pollutant using the sequential reduced PCA sampling plan shall perform the following:

(i) Select a sample size of 4, 8, 12, 16 or 20 engines or vehicles. If the PCA follows an SEA failure, the sample size selected cannot be less than the number of engines or vehicles tested during the SEA.

(ii) Conduct emission tests on the selected sample in accordance with § 86.1111-87 for the pollutants for which the PCA was initiated.

(iii) The compliance level for the pollutant is the result of the following equation, using the test results obtained in (a)(3)(ii) and all SEA test results for that pollutant if the PCA follows an SEA failure:

(iv) After calculating a compliance level in accordance with paragraph (a)(3)(iii) of this section, a manufacturer may elect to increase the sample size by 4 engines or vehicles, or a multiple thereof, up to the maximum, including SEA engines or vehicles if any, of 20. Upon that election, the manufacturer shall add the additional engines or vehicles to the sample and perform paragraphs (a)(3)(ii) and (a)(3)(iii) of this section. This election may be repeated if appropriate. A compliance level determined under this election shall replace a previously determined compliance level.

(b) A fail decision is reached with respect to the upper limit when the compliance level determined in paragraph (a) of this section exceeds the applicable upper limit.

(c) Initial test results are calculated following the Federal Test Procedure specified in § 86.1111-87(a).

(d) Final test results are calculated by summing the initial test results derived in paragraph (c) of this section for each test engine or vehicle, dividing by the number of tests conducted on the engine or vehicle, and rounding to the same number of decimal places contained in the applicable standard expressed to one additional significant figure.

(e) Final deteriorated test results. (1) The final deteriorated test results for each heavy-duty engine or light-duty truck tested according to subpart B, I, N, or P of this part are calculated by applying the final test results by the appropriate deterioration factor, derived from the certification process for the engine family control system combination and model year for the selected configuration to which the test engine or vehicle belongs. If the deterioration factor computed during the certification process is multiplicative and it is less than one, that deterioration factor will be one. If the deterioration factor computed during the certification process is additive and it is less than zero, that deterioration factor will be zero.

(2) Round the final deteriorated test results to the same number of significant figures contained in the applicable standard.

(f) A failed engine or vehicle is one whose final deteriorated test results, for one or more of the applicable exhaust pollutants, exceed:

(1) The applicable emission standard, or

(2) The compliance level established in paragraph (b) of this section.

(g) Within five working days after completion of PCA testing of all engines or vehicles, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a report which includes the following information:

(1) The location and description of the manufacturer's emission test facilities which were utilized to conduct testing reported pursuant to this section;

(2) The applicable standards against which the engines or vehicles were tested;

(3) Deterioration factors for the engine family to which the selected configuration belongs;

(4) A description of the engine or vehicle and any emission-related component selection method used;

(5) For each test conducted:

(i) Test engine or vehicle description, including;

(A) Configuration and engine family identification,

(B) Year, make and build date,

(C) Engine or vehicle identification number, and

(D) Number of hours of service accumulated on engine or number of miles on vehicle prior to testing;

(ii) Location where service or mileage accumulation was conducted and description of accumulation procedure and schedule;

(iii) Test number, date, initial test results before and after rounding, final test results and final deteriorated test results for all emission tests, whether valid or invalid, and the reason for invalidation, if applicable;

(iv) A complete description of any modification, repair, preparation, maintenance, and/or testing which was performed on the test engine or vehicle and has not been reported pursuant to any other paragraph of this subpart and will not be performed on all other production engines or vehicles; and

(v) Any other information the Administrator may request relevant to the determination as to whether the new heavy-duty engines or heavy-duty vehicles being manufactured by the manufacturer do in fact conform with the regulations of this subpart; and

(6) The following statement and endorsement:
