
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1110-87 Sample selection.

(a) Engines or vehicles comprising a test sample which are required to be tested pursuant to a PCA in accordance with this subpart will be selected at the location and in the manner specified by EPA. If a manufacturer determines that the test engines or vehicles cannot be selected in the manner specified by EPA, an alternative selection procedure may be employed, provided that the manufacturer requests approval of the alternative procedure in advance of the start of test sample selection and that the Administrator approves the procedure.

(b) The manufacturer shall have assembled the test engines or vehicles of the configuration selected for testing using its normal mass production processes for engines or vehicles to be distributed into commerce. In the case of heavy-duty engines, if the test engines are selected at a location where they do not have their operational and emission control systems installed, EPA will specify the manner and location for selection of components to complete assembly of the engines. The manufacturer shall assemble these components onto the test engines using normal assembly and quality control procedures as documented by the manufacturer.

(c) No quality control, testing, or assembly procedures will be used on the completed test engine or vehicle or any portion thereof, including parts and subassemblies, that will not be used during the production and assembly of all other engines or vehicles of that configuration.

(d) The EPA Enforcement Officers may specify that they, rather than the manufacturer, will select the test engines or vehicles.

(e) The order in which test engines or vehicles are selected determines the order in which test results are to be used in applying the PCA testing plan in accordance with § 86.1112-87.

(f) The manufacturer shall keep on hand all engines or vehicles comprising the test sample until such time as a compliance level is determined in accordance with § 86.1112-87(a) except that the manufacturer may ship any tested engine or vehicle which has not failed in accordance with § 86.1112-87(f)(1). However, once the manufacturer ships any test engine or vehicle, it relinquishes the prerogative to conduct retests as provided in § 86.1111-87(i).
