
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1113-87 Calculation and payment of penalty.

(a) The NCP for each engine or vehicle for which a compliance level has been determined under § 86.1112-87 is calculated according to the formula in paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section depending on the value of the compliance level. Each formula contains an annual adjustment factor (AAF) which is defined in paragraph (a)(3) of this section. Other terms in the formulas are defined in paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(1) If the compliance level (CL) is greater than the standard and less than or equal to X (e.g., point CLin figure 1), then:

(2) If the compliance level is greater than X and less than or equal to the upper limit as determined by § 86.1104-87 (e.g., point CLin figure 1), then:

(3) AAFhas the following values:

(i) If frac= 0, then AAF= 1 + I

(ii) If frac>0, then:

(iii) AAF= 1

(iv) In calculating the NCP for year n, the value fracfor i = n will include actual NCP usage through March 31 of model year n-1 and EPA's estimate of additional usage for the remainder of model year n-1 using manufacturer input. All manufacturers using NCPs must report by subclass actual NCP and non-NCP production numbers through March 31, an estimate of NCP and non-NCP production for the remainder of the model year, and the previous year's actual NCP and non-NCP production to EPA no later than April 30 of the model year. If EPA is unable to obtain similar information from manufacturers not using NCPs, EPA will use projected sales data from the manufacturers' application for certification in computing the total production of the subclass and the frac. The value of fracwill be corrected to reflect actual year-end usage of NCPs and a corrected AAF will be used to establish NCPs in future years. The correction of previous year's AAF will not affect the previous year's penalty.

(4) The terms in the above formulas have the following meanings and values, which may be determined separately for each subclass and pollutant for which an NCP is offered. The production of Federal and California designated engines or vehicles shall be combined for the purpose of this section in calculating the NCP for each engine or vehicle.

(5) The values of COC, COC, MCand F will be determined for each applicable subclass by EPA based on the cost data used by EPA in setting the applicable emission standard. However, where the rulemaking to establish a specific NCP occurs after the rulemaking to establish the standard, EPA may augment the data base used to establish the standard by including the best cost and emission performance data available to EPA during the specific NCP rulemaking.

(6) In calculating the NCP, appropriate values of the following predefined terms should be used: CL, S, UL, F, and A. For all other terms, unrounded values of at least five figures beyond the decimal point should be used in calculations leading up to the penalty amount. Any NCP calculated under paragraph (a) of this section will be rounded to the nearest dollar.

(b) The NCP determined in paragraph (a) of this section is assessed against all those engines or vehicles of the nonconforming configuration or engine family produced at all assembly plants and distributed into commerce-

(1) Since the beginning of the model year in the case of a certification failure described by § 86.1106-87(a).

(2) Beginning ten days after an SEA failure described by § 86.1106-87 (b) or (c).

(3) Following implementation of a production running change described by § 86.1106-87(d).

(c) The NCP will continue to be assessed during the model year, until such time, if any, that the configuration or engine family is brought into conformance with applicable emission standards.

(d) A manufacturer may carry over an NCP from a model year to the next model year. There is no limit to the number of years that carryover can continue. The amount of the penalty will increase each year according to paragraph (a) of this section.

(e) The Administrator shall notify the manufacturer in writing of the nonconformance penalty established under paragraph (a) of this section after the completion of the PCA under § 86.1112-87.

(f) A manufacturer may request a hearing under 40 CFR part 1068, subpart G, as to whether the compliance level (including a compliance level in excess of the upper limit) was determined properly.

(g)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, the nonconformance penalty or penalties assessed under this subpart must be paid as follows:
