
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1114-87 Suspension and voiding of certificates of conformity.

(a) The certificate of conformity is suspended with respect to any engine or vehicle failing pursuant to paragraph (f) of § 86.1112-87 effective from the time that a fail decision is made for that engine or vehicle.

(b) Once a certificate has been suspended for a failed engine or vehicle as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section, the manufacturer shall take the following actions:

(1) Before the certificate is reinstated for that failed engine or vehicle,

(i) Remedy the nonconformity, and

(ii) Demonstrate that the engine or vehicle conforms to the applicable standards or compliance levels by retesting the engine or vehicle in accordance with these regulations; and

(2) Submit a written report to the Administrator within five working days after successful completion of testing on the failed engine or vehicle, which contains a description of the remedy and test results for each engine or vehicle in addition to other information that may be required by this regulation.

(c) The Administrator may suspend the certificate of conformity if the manufacturer, after electing to conduct a PCA, fails to adhere to the requirements stated in § 86.1106-87(b)(3), (b)(6)(iii), (c)(2), or (c)(5)(iii).

(d) The Administrator may suspend the qualified certificate of conformity issued under the conditions specified in § 86.1106-87 if the manufacturer fails to adhere to the requirements stated in § 86.1106-87(a)(3), (a)(4)(iii), (d)(2)(iii), or (d)(3).

(e) The Administrator may suspend the certificate of conformity or the qualified certificate of conformity if the compliance level as determined in § 86.1112-87(a) is in excess of the upper limit.

(f) The Administrator may void the certificate of conformity if the compliance level as determined in § 86.1112-87(a) is in excess of the upper limit and the manufacturer fails to recall any engines or vehicles introduced into commerce pursuant to § 86.1106-87(a)(4)(ii), (b)(6)(ii), (c)(5)(ii) or (d)(2)(ii).

(g) The Administrator may void the certificate of conformity for those engines or vehicles for which the manufacturer fails to meet the requirements of § 86.1106-87(a)(4)(i), (b)(6)(i), (c)(5)(i), or (d)(2)(i).

(h) The Administrator shall notify the manufacturer in writing of any suspension or voiding of a certificate of conformity in whole or in part, except as provided for in paragraph (a) of this section.

(i) A certificate of conformity suspended or voided under paragraph (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) of this section may be reinstated after a written request by the manufacturer and under such terms and conditions as the Administrator may require and after the manufacturer demonstrates compliance with applicable requirements.

(j) After the Administrator suspends or voids a certificate of conformity pursuant to this section or notifies a manufacturer of his intent to suspend or void a certificate of conformity under § 86.087-30(e), and prior to the commencement of a hearing, if any, under § 86.1115-87, if the manufacturer demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction that the decision to suspend or void the certificate was based on erroneous information, the Administrator shall reinstate the certificate.
