
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart L - Nonconformance Penalties for Gasoline-Fueled and Diesel Heavy-Duty Engines and Heavy-Duty Vehicles, Including Light-Duty Trucks
###### § 86.1113-87 Calculation and payment of penalty.
####### see

(3) A manufacturer making payment under paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section shall submit the following information by each quarterly due date to the Designated Compliance Officer (40 CFR 1036.801). This information shall be submitted even if a manufacturer has no NCP production in a given quarter.

(i) Corporate identification, identification and quantity of engines or vehicles subject to the NCP, certificate identification (number and date), NCP payment calculations and interest payment calculations, if applicable.

(ii) The following statement and endorsement:

(4) The Administrator may verify the production figures or other documentation submitted under paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(5)(i) Interest shall be assessed on any nonconformance penalty for which payment has been withheld under § 86.113-87(g) (1) or (2). Interest shall be calculated from the due date for the first quarterly NCP payment, as determined under § 86.1113-87(g)(1), until either the date on which the Presiding Officer or the Administrator renders the final decision of the Agency under § 86.1115-87 or the date when an alternate payment schedule (approved pursuant to § 86.1113-87(g)(1)) ends.

(ii) The combined principal plus interest on each quarterly NCP payment withheld pursuant to § 86.1113-87(g) (1) or (2) shall be calculated according to the formula:

(iii) The number of quarters for which payment is outstanding for purposes of this paragraph shall be the number of quarterly NCP payment due dates, as determined under § 86.1113-87(g)(1), which have elapsed throughout the duration of a hearing request, or alternate payment schedule.

(iv) The interest rate applicable to a quarter for purposes of this paragraph shall be the rate published by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to the Debt Collection Act of 1982 and effective on the date on which the NCP payment was originally due.

(6) A manufacturer will be refunded an overpayment, or be permitted to offset an overpayment by withholding a future payment, if approved in advance by the Administrator. The government shall pay no interest on overpayments.

(h) A manufacturer that certifies as a replacement for the nonconforming configuration, a configuration that is in conformance with applicable standards, and that performs a production compliance audit (PCA) in accordance with § 86.1112-87(a) that results in a compliance level below the applicable standard, will be eligible to receive a refund of a portion of the engineering and development component of the penalty. The engineering and development component will be determined by multiplying the base penalty amount by the engineering and development factor for the appropriate subclass and pollutant in § 86.1105-87. The amount refunded will depend on the model year in which the certification and PCA take place. In cases where payment of penalties have been waived by EPA in accordance with paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section, EPA will refund a portion of the engineering and development component. The proportionate refund to be paid by EPA will be based on the proportion of vehicles or engines of the nonconforming configuration for which NCPs were paid to EPA. The refund is calculated as follows:
