
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart N - Exhaust Test Procedures for Heavy-duty Engines
###### ยง 86.1360 Supplemental emission test; test cycle and procedures.
####### Calculating intermediate test points.

(g)(1) For the three test points selected by EPA under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the emissions must be measured and calculated as described in paragraph (e)(6)(i) of this section (except that n = 1 and WF = 1). The measured values then must be compared to the interpolated values according to paragraph (g)(3) of this section. The interpolated values are determined from the modes of the test cycle closest to the respective test point according to paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(2) Interpolating emission values from the test cycle. The gaseous emissions for each regulated pollutant for each of the control points (Z) must be interpolated from the four closest modes of the test cycle that envelop the selected control point Z as shown in Figure 2 of this paragraph (g)(2).

(i) For these modes (R, S, T, U), the following definitions apply:

(A) Speed (R) = Speed(T) = n.

(B) Speed (S) = Speed(U) = n.

(C) Per cent load (R) = Per cent load (S).

(D) Per cent load (T) = Per cent load (U).

(ii) The interpolated value of the brake specific gaseous emissions of the selected control point Z(EZ) must be calculated as follows:

(iii) Figure 2 follows:
