
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart N - Exhaust Test Procedures for Heavy-duty Engines
###### ยง 86.1360 Supplemental emission test; test cycle and procedures.
####### Test cycle.

(b)(1) Perform testing as described in ยง 86.1362 for determining whether an engine meets the applicable standards when measured over the supplemental emission test.

(2) For engines not certified to a NOstandard or FEL less than 1.5 g/bhp-hr, EPA may select, and require the manufacturer to conduct the test using, up to three discrete test points within the control area defined in paragraph (d) of this section. EPA will notify the manufacturer of these supplemental test points in writing in a timely manner before the test. Emission sampling for these discrete test modes must include all regulated pollutants except particulate matter.

(3) For engines certified using the ramped-modal cycle specified in ยง 86.1362, perform the three discrete test points described in paragraph (b)(2) of this section as follows:

(i) Allow the engine to idle as needed to complete equipment checks following the supplemental emission test described in this section, then operate the engine over the three additional discrete test points.

(ii) Validate the additional discrete test points as a composite test separate from the supplemental emission test, but in the same manner.

(iii) Use the emission data collected during the time interval from 35 to 5 seconds before the end of each mode (excluding transitions) to perform the MAEL calculations in paragraph (f) of this section.

(c) The engine speeds A, B and C, referenced in the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section, must be determined as follows:
