
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart N - Exhaust Test Procedures for Heavy-duty Engines
###### ยง 86.1370 Not-To-Exceed test procedures.
####### NTE cold temperature operating exclusion.

(f)Engines equipped with exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) whose operation within the NTE control area specified in paragraph (b) of this section when operating during cold temperature conditions as specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are not subject to the NTE emission limits during the specified cold temperature conditions.

(1) Cold temperature operation is defined as engine operating conditions meeting either of the following two criteria:

(i) Intake manifold temperature (IMT) less than or equal to the temperature defined by the following relationship between IMT and absolute intake manifold pressure (IMP) for the corresponding IMP:

(ii) Engine coolant temperature (ECT) less than or equal to the temperature defined by the following relationship between ECT and absolute intake manifold pressure (IMP) for the corresponding IMP:

(2) [Reserved]

(g) You may exclude emission data based on catalytic aftertreatment temperatures as follows:

(1) For an engine equipped with a catalytic NOaftertreatment system, exclude NOemission data that is collected when the exhaust temperature at any time during the NTE event is less than 250 &#xB0;C.

(2) For an engine equipped with an oxidizing catalytic aftertreatment system, exclude NMHC and CO emission data that is collected if the exhaust temperature is less than 250 &#xB0;C at any time during the NTE event.

(3) Using good engineering judgment, measure exhaust temperature within 30 cm downstream of the last applicable catalytic aftertreatment device. Where there are parallel paths, use good engineering judgment to measure the temperature within 30 cm downstream of the last applicable catalytic aftertreatment device in the path with the greatest exhaust flow.

(h) Any emission measurements corresponding to engine operating conditions that do not qualify as a valid NTE sampling event may be excluded from the determination of the vehicle-pass ratio specified in ยง 86.1912 for the specific pollutant.

(i) Start emission sampling at the beginning of each valid NTE sampling event, except as needed to allow for zeroing or conditioning the PEMS. For gaseous emissions, PEMS preparation must be complete for all analyzers before starting emission sampling.

(j) Emergency vehicle AECDs. If your engine family includes engines with one or more approved AECDs for emergency vehicle applications under paragraph (4) of the definition of "defeat device" in ยง 86.1803, the NTE emission limits do not apply when any of these AECDs are active. apply when any of these AECDs are active.
