
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart N - Exhaust Test Procedures for Heavy-duty Engines
###### ยง 86.1370 Not-To-Exceed test procedures.
####### e.g.,

(2) For engines equipped with emission controls that include discrete regeneration events and that send a recordable electronic signal indicating the start and end of the regeneration event, determine the minimum averaging period for each NTE event that includes regeneration active operation as described in paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section. This minimum averaging period is used to determine whether the individual NTE event is a valid NTE event. For engines equipped with emission controls that include multiple discrete regeneration events (de-soot, de-NO, de-SO, etc.) and associated electronic signals, if an NTE event includes regeneration active operation on multiple regeneration signals, determine the minimum averaging period for each regeneration signal according to paragraph (d)(2)(i) of this section and use the longest period. This minimum averaging period applies if it is longer than 30 seconds. The electronic signal from the engine's ECU must indicate non-regeneration and regeneration operation. Regeneration operation may be further divided into regeneration pending and regeneration active operation. These are referred to as states 0, 1, and 2 for non-regeneration, regeneration pending, and regeneration active operation, respectively. No further subdivision of these states are allowed for use in this paragraph (d)(2). Where the electronic signal does not differentiate between regeneration pending and active operation, take the regeneration signal to mean regeneration active operation (state 2). A complete non-regeneration event is a time period that occurs during the course of the shift-day that is bracketed by regeneration operation, which is either regeneration active operation (state 2) or regeneration pending operation (state 1). A complete regeneration event is a time period that occurs during the course of the shift-day that is bracketed before and after by non-regeneration operation (state 0); a complete regeneration event includes any time in the event where regeneration is pending (state 1). The following figure provides an example of regeneration events during a shift-day:
