
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1801-01 Applicability.
####### Optional applicability.

(c)(1) A manufacturer may request to certify any Otto-cycle heavy-duty vehicle of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less in accordance with the light-duty truck provisions through the 2004 model year (2002 model year for manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 1 in ยง 86.005-1(c) or 2003 model year for manufacturers choosing Otto-cycle HDE option 2 in ยง 86.005-1(c)). Heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of subpart A of this part do not apply to such a vehicle. A 2004 model year heavy-duty vehicle optionally certified as a light-duty truck under this provision must comply with all provisions applicable to MDPVs including exhaust and evaporative emission standards, test procedures, on-board diagnostics, refueling standards, phase-in requirements and fleet average standards under 40 CFR part 85 and this part.

(2) Beginning with the 2001 model year, a manufacturer may request to certify any incomplete Otto-cycle heavy-duty vehicle of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less in accordance with the provisions for complete heavy-duty vehicles. Heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of subpart A of this part do not apply to such a vehicle.

(3) A manufacturer may optionally use the provisions of this subpart in lieu of the provisions of subpart A beginning with the 2000 model year for light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks. Manufacturers choosing this option must comply with all provisions of this subpart. Manufacturers may elect this provision for either all or a portion of their product line.

(4) Upon preapproval by the Administrator, a manufacturer may optionally certify a clean alternative fuel conversion of a complete heavy-duty vehicle greater than 10,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating and of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less under the heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of subpart A of this part. Such preapproval will be granted only upon demonstration that chassis-based certification would be infeasible or unreasonable for the manufacturer to perform.

(5) A manufacturer may optionally certify a clean alternative fuel conversion of a complete heavy-duty vehicle greater than 10,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating and of 14,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating or less under the heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of subpart A of this part without advance approval from the Administrator if the vehicle was originally certified to the heavy-duty engine or heavy-duty vehicle provisions of subpart A of this part.
