
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1801-12 Applicability.
####### Applicability.

(a)The provisions of this subpart apply to certain types of new vehicles as described in this paragraph (a). Where the provisions apply for a type of vehicle, they apply for vehicles powered by any fuel, unless otherwise specified. In cases where a provision applies only to a certain vehicle group based on its model year, vehicle class, motor fuel, engine type, or other distinguishing characteristics, the limited applicability is cited in the appropriate section. Testing references in this subpart generally apply to Tier 2 and older vehicles, while testing references to 40 CFR part 1066 generally apply to Tier 3 and newer vehicles; see § 86.101 for detailed provisions related to this transition. The provisions of this subpart apply to certain vehicles as follows:

(1) The provisions of this subpart apply for light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks.

(2) The provisions of this subpart apply for medium-duty passenger vehicles. The provisions of this subpart also apply for other complete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, except as follows:

(i) The provisions of this subpart are optional for diesel-cycle vehicles through model year 2017; however, if you are using the provisions of § 86.1811-17(b)(9) or § 86.1816-18(b)(8) to transition to the Tier 3 exhaust emission standards, the provisions of this subpart are optional for those diesel-cycle vehicles until the start of the Tier 3 phase-in for those vehicles.

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) The provisions of this subpart are optional for diesel-fueled Class 3 heavy-duty vehicles in a given model year if those vehicles are equipped with engines certified to the appropriate standards in § 86.007-11 or 40 CFR 1036.104 for which less than half of the engine family's sales for the model year in the United States are for complete Class 3 heavy-duty vehicles. This includes engines sold to all vehicle manufacturers. If you are the original manufacturer of the engine and the vehicle, base this showing on your sales information. If you manufacture the vehicle but are not the original manufacturer of the engine, you must use your best estimate of the original manufacturer's sales information.

(3) The provisions of this subpart generally do not apply to incomplete heavy-duty vehicles of any size, or to complete vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR (see § 86.016-1 and 40 CFR parts 1036 and 1037). However, this subpart applies to such vehicles in the following cases:

(i) Heavy duty vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR may be optionally certified to the exhaust emission standards in this subpart, including the greenhouse gas emission standards, if they are properly included in test group with similar vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR. Emission standards apply to these vehicles as if they were Class 3 heavy-duty vehicles. The work factor for these vehicles may not be greater than the largest work factor that applies for vehicles in the test group that are at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR (see § 86.1819-14).

(ii) Incomplete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR may be optionally certified to the exhaust emission standards in this subpart that apply for heavy-duty vehicles.

(iii) The evaporative emission standards apply for incomplete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR.

(iv) Evaporative and refueling emission standards apply for complete and incomplete heavy-duty vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR as specified in 40 CFR 1037.103.

(v) The onboard diagnostic requirements in this subpart apply for incomplete vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, but not for any vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR.

(4) If you optionally certify vehicles to standards under this subpart, those vehicles are subject to all the regulatory requirements as if the standards were mandatory.
