
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1801-12 Applicability.
####### Exemption from greenhouse gas emission standards for small businesses.

(j)(1) Manufacturers that qualify as a small business under the Small Business Administration regulations in 13 CFR part 121 are exempt from the greenhouse gas emission standards specified in § 86.1818-12 and in associated provisions in this part and in part 600 of this chapter. This exemption applies to both U.S.-based and non-U.S.-based businesses. The following categories of businesses (with their associated NAICS codes) may be eligible for exemption based on the Small Business Administration size standards in 13 CFR 121.201.

(i) Vehicle manufacturers (NAICS code 336111).

(ii) Independent commercial importers (NAICS codes 811111, 811112, 811198, 423110, 424990, and 441120).

(iii) Alternate fuel vehicle converters (NAICS codes 335312, 336312, 336322, 336399, 454312, 485310, and 811198).

(2)(i) Effective for the 2013 and later model years, a manufacturer that would otherwise be exempt under the provisions of paragraph (j)(1) of this section may optionally comply with the greenhouse gas emission standards specified in § 86.1818. A manufacturer making this choice is required to comply with all the applicable standards and provisions in § 86.1818 and with all associated and applicable provisions in this part and in part 600 of this chapter.

(ii) Such a manufacturer may optionally earn credits in the 2012 model year by demonstrating fleet average COemission levels below the fleet average COstandard that would have been applicable in model year 2012 if the manufacturer had not been exempt. Once the small business manufacturer opting into the greenhouse gas emission standards completes certification for the 2013 model year, that manufacturer will be eligible to generate greenhouse gas emission credits for their 2012 model year production, after the conclusion of the 2012 model year for that manufacturer. Manufacturers electing to earn these 2012 credits must comply with the model year reporting requirements in § 600.512-12 for that model year. The 2012 fleet average must be calculated according to § 600.510 and other applicable requirements in part 600 of this chapter, and 2012 credits must be calculated according to § 86.1865 and other applicable requirements in this part.
