
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1801-12 Applicability.
####### Requesting the conditional exemption from standards.

(3)To be exempted from the standards described in ยง 86.1818-12(c) through (e), the manufacturer must submit a declaration to EPA containing a detailed written description of how the manufacturer qualifies under the provisions of this paragraph (k). The declaration must describe eligibility information that includes the following: model year 2008 and 2009 sales, sales volumes for each of the most recent three model years, detailed information regarding ownership relationships with other manufacturers, details regarding the application of the provisions of ยง 86.1838-01(b)(3) regarding the aggregation of sales of related companies, and documentation of good-faith efforts made by the manufacturer to purchase credits from other manufacturers. This declaration must be signed by a chief officer of the company, and must be made prior to each model year for which the exemption is requested. The declaration must be submitted to EPA at least 30 days prior to the introduction into commerce of any vehicles for each model year for which the exemption is requested, but not later than December of the calendar year prior to the model year for which exemption is requested. A conditional exemption will be granted when EPA approves the exemption declaration. The declaration must be sent to the Environmental Protection Agency at the following address: Director, Compliance and Innovative Strategies Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Drive, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105.
