
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1805-04 Useful life.

(a) Except as required under paragraph (b) of this section or permitted under paragraphs (d), (e) and (f) of this section, the full useful life for all LDVs, LDT1s and LDT2s is a period of use of 10 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first. For all HLDTs, MDPVs, and complete heavy-duty vehicles full useful life is a period of 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first. This full useful life applies to all exhaust, evaporative and refueling emission requirements except for standards which are specified to only be applicable at the time of certification.

(b) Manufacturers may elect to optionally certify a test group to the Tier 2 exhaust emission standards for 150,000 miles to gain additional NOcredits, as permitted in ยง 86.1860-04(g), or to opt out of intermediate life standards as permitted in ยง 86.1811-04(c). In such cases, useful life is a period of use of 15 years or 150,000 miles, whichever occurs first, for all exhaust, evaporative and refueling emission requirements except for cold CO standards and standards which are applicable only at the time of certification.

(c) Where intermediate useful life exhaust emission standards are applicable, such standards are applicable for five years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(d) Where cold CO standards are applicable, the useful life requirement for compliance with the cold CO standard only, is 5 years or 50,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(e) Where LDVs, LDT1s and LDT2s of the 2003 or earlier model years are certified to Tier 2 exhaust emission standards for purposes of generating early Tier 2 NOcredits, manufacturers may certify those vehicles to full useful lives of 100,000 miles in lieu of the otherwise required 120,000 mile full useful lives, as provided under ยง 86.1861-04(c)(4).

(f) For interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs, the useful life requirement for exhaust, evaporative and refueling emissions is 10 years or 100,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(g) Where cold temperature NMHC standards are applicable, the useful life requirement for compliance with the cold temperature NMHC standard only is as follows:

(1) For LDV/LLDTs, 10 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.

(2) For HLDT/MDPVs, 11 years or 120,000 miles, whichever occurs first.
