
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1806-05 Onboard diagnostics.
####### General.

(a)(1) Except as provided by paragraph (a)(2) of this section, all light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and complete heavy-duty vehicles weighing 14,000 pounds GVWR or less (including MDPVs) must be equipped with an onboard diagnostic (OBD) system capable of monitoring all emission-related powertrain systems or components during the applicable useful life of the vehicle. All systems and components required to be monitored by these regulations must be evaluated periodically, but no less frequently than once per applicable certification test cycle as defined in paragraphs (a) and (d) of Appendix I of this part, or similar trip as approved by the Administrator. Emissions of CO, CH, and NO are not required to be monitored by the OBD system.

(2) Diesel fueled MDPVs and heavy-duty vehicles weighing 14,000 pounds GVWR or less that are not MDPVs must meet the OBD requirements of this section according to the phase-in schedule in paragraph (l) of this section. Paragraph (l) of this section does not apply to Otto-cycle MDPVs.

(3) An OBD system demonstrated to fully meet the requirements in, through model year 2006, ยง 86.004-17 and, for model years 2007 and later, ยง 86.007-17 may be used to meet the requirements of this section, provided that such an OBD system also incorporates appropriate transmission diagnostics as may be required under this section, and provided that the Administrator finds that a manufacturer's decision to use the flexibility in this paragraph (a)(3) is based on good engineering judgement.
