
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1806-05 Onboard diagnostics.
####### Catalysts and diesel particulate filters (DPF).

(1)(i) If equipped, reduction catalyst deterioration or malfunction before it results in exhaust emissions exceeding, for model years 2007 through 2009, 4 times the applicable NOstandard and, for model years 2010 through 2012, the applicable NOstandard + 0.6 g/mi and, for model years 2013 and later, the applicable NOstandard + 0.3 g/mi. Further, if equipped, oxidation catalyst (not to include the DPF), deterioration or malfunction before it results in exhaust NMHC emissions exceeding, for 2010 through 2012 model years, 2.5 times the applicable NMHC standard and, for 2013 and later model years, 2 times the applicable NMHC standard. Monitoring of oxidation catalysts is not required through the 2009 model year. These catalyst monitoring need not be done if the manufacturer can demonstrate that deterioration or malfunction of the system will not result in exceedance of the threshold. As an alternative to the oxidation catalyst monitoring requirement, the monitor can be designed to detect oxidation catalyst deterioration or malfunction before it results in an inability to achieve a temperature rise of 100 degrees C, or to reach the necessary DPF regeneration temperature, within 60 seconds of initiating an active DPF regeneration. Further, oxidation catalyst deterioration or malfunction when the DOC is unable to sustain the necessary regeneration temperature for the duration of the regeneration event. The OBD or control system must abort the regeneration if the regeneration temperature has not been reached within five minutes of initiating an active regeneration event, and if the regeneration temperature cannot be sustained for the duration of the regeneration event.

(ii) If equipped with a DPF, for all model years, catastrophic failure of the device must be detected. Any DPF whose complete failure results in exhaust emissions exceeding 1.5 times the applicable PM standard or family emissions limit (FEL) must be monitored for such catastrophic failure. This monitoring need not be done if the manufacturer can demonstrate that a catastrophic failure of the system will not result in exceedance of the threshold. Further, if equipped with a DPF, the OBD system shall detect DPF deterioration or malfunction before it results in exhaust emissions exceeding, for 2010 through 2012 model years, 4 times the applicable PM standard and, for 2013 and later model years, the applicable PM standard + 0.04 g/mi.
