
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1806-05 Onboard diagnostics.
####### Thresholds for California OBD II Compliance Option.

(m)For the purposes of complying with the provisions set forth above in paragraph (j), vehicles certified to Tier 2 standards shall utilize multiplicative factors from the California vehicle type (i.e. LEV II, ULEV II) corresponding to the Tier 2 to which the vehicles are certified. Vehicles certified to Tier 2, Bin 4 emissions standards shall utilize the Tier 2 Bin 4 emission standards and the CARB ULEV II multiplicative factors to determine the appropriate OBD malfunction threshold for all pollutants except NO, for which they shall utilize that CARB SULEV II multiplicative factors. Vehicles certified to Tier 2, Bin 3 emissions standards shall utilize the Tier 2 Bin 3 emission standards and the CARB ULEV II multiplicative factors to determine the appropriate OBD malfunction threshold for all pollutants except NO, for which they shall utilize that CARB SULEV II multiplicative factors. Vehicles certified to Tier 2, Bin 2 emissions standards shall utilize the Tier 2 Bin 2 emission standards and the CARB SULEV II multiplicative factors to determine the appropriate OBD malfunction threshold. Vehicles certified to Tier 2 Bin 7 or higher shall utilize the CARB LEV II multiplicative factors to determine the appropriate OBD malfunction threshold.

(n) For 2007 and later model year diesel complete heavy-duty vehicles, in lieu of the malfunction descriptions of paragraph (b) of this section, the malfunction descriptions of this paragraph (n) shall apply. The OBD system must detect and identify malfunctions in all monitored emission-related powertrain systems or components according to the following malfunction definitions as measured and calculated in accordance with test procedures set forth in subpart B of this part (chassis-based test procedures), excluding those test procedures defined as "Supplemental" test procedures in § 86.004-2 and codified in §§ 86.158, 86.159, and 86.160.
