
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1806-05 Onboard diagnostics.
####### Diesel.

(B)An engine misfire condition resulting in complete lack of cylinder firing is induced and is not detected.

(iv) If so equipped, any oxygen sensor is replaced with a completely defective oxygen sensor, or an electronic simulation of such, resulting in exhaust emissions exceeding 1.5 times the applicable standard or FEL for CO, NMOG, or NO(or NMOG + NO).

(v) If so equipped and applicable, a vapor leak is introduced in the evaporative and/or refueling system (excluding the tubing and connections between the purge valve and the intake manifold) greater than or equal in magnitude to a leak caused by a 0.040 inch diameter orifice, or the evaporative purge air flow is blocked or otherwise eliminated from the complete evaporative emission control system. At a minimum, gas cap removal or complete venting of the evaporative and/or refueling system may be introduced resulting in a gross leak of the complete evaporative emission control system.

(vi) A malfunction condition is induced resulting in complete disablement in any emission-related powertrain system or component, including but not necessarily limited to, the exhaust gas recirculation (EGR) system, if equipped, the secondary air system, if equipped, and the fuel control system, singularly resulting in exhaust emissions exceeding 1.5 times the applicable emission standard or FEL for PM, CO, NMOG, or NO(or NMOG + NO).

(vii) A malfunction condition is induced that completely disables an electronic emission-related powertrain system or component not otherwise described in this paragraph (k) that either provides input to or receives commands from the onboard computer resulting in a measurable impact on emissions. At a minimum, manufacturers may be required to perform this disablement on critical inputs and outputs where lack of the input and output disables an entire monitor as described in this paragraph (k)(7)(vii), disables multiple monitors (e.g., two or more) used by the onboard computer, or renders the entire onboard computer and its functions inoperative.

(viii) Clean alternative fuel conversion manufacturers must use good engineering judgment to induce malfunctions and may perform more stringent malfunction demonstrations than described in this paragraph (k)(7). In addition, the Administrator reserves the right to request a clean alternative fuel conversion manufacturer to perform stricter demonstration requirements, to the extent feasible, on clean alternative fuel conversions.
