
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Definitions.

(ii)The following definitions apply for this paragraph (f):

(A) Aftermarket service provider means any individual or business engaged in the diagnosis, service, and repair of a motor vehicle or engine, who is not directly affiliated with a manufacturer or manufacturer-franchised dealership.

(B) Bi-directional control means the capability of a diagnostic tool to send messages on the data bus that temporarily overrides the module's control over a sensor or actuator and gives control to the diagnostic tool operator. Bi-directional controls do not create permanent changes to engine or component calibrations.

(C) Data stream information means information (i.e., messages and parameters) originated within the vehicle by a module or intelligent sensors (i.e., a sensor that contains and is controlled by its own module) and transmitted between a network of modules and/or intelligent sensors connected in parallel with either one or more communication wires. The information is broadcast over the communication wires for use by the OBD system to gather information on emissions-related components or systems and from other vehicle modules that may impact emissions, including but not limited to systems such as chassis or transmission. For the purposes of this section, data stream information does not include engine calibration related information, or any data stream information from systems or modules that do not impact emissions.

(D) Emissions-related information means any information related to the diagnosis, service, and repair of emissions-related components. Emissions-related information includes, but is not limited to, information regarding any system, component or part of a vehicle that controls emissions and any system, component and/or part associated with the powertrain system, including, but not limited to:
