
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.

(a) The manufacturer shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the purchaser of each new motor vehicle subject to the standards prescribed in this subpart, as applicable, written instructions for the proper maintenance and use of the vehicle, by the purchaser consistent with the provisions of § 86.1834-01, which establishes what scheduled maintenance the Administrator approves as being reasonable and necessary.

(1) The maintenance instructions required by this section shall be in clear, and to the extent practicable, nontechnical language.

(2) The maintenance instructions required by this section shall contain a general description of the documentation which the manufacturer will require from the ultimate purchaser or any subsequent purchaser as evidence of compliance with the instructions.

(b) Instructions provided to purchasers under paragraph (a) of this section shall specify the performance of all scheduled maintenance performed by the manufacturer on certification durability vehicles and, in cases where the manufacturer performs less maintenance on certification durability data vehicles than the allowed limit, may specify the performance of any scheduled maintenance allowed under § 86.1834-01.

(c) Scheduled emission-related maintenance in addition to that performed under § 86.1834-01 may only be recommended to offset the effects of abnormal in-use operating conditions, except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section. The manufacturer shall be required to demonstrate, subject to the approval of the Administrator, that such maintenance is reasonable and technologically necessary to assure the proper functioning of the emission control system. Such additional recommended maintenance shall be clearly differentiated, in a form approved by the Administrator, from that approved under § 86.1834-01.

(d) Inspections of emission-related parts or systems with instructions to replace, repair, clean, or adjust the parts or systems if necessary, are not considered to be items of scheduled maintenance which insure the proper functioning of the emission control system. Such inspections, and any recommended maintenance beyond that approved by the Administrator as reasonable and necessary under paragraphs (a), (b), and (c) of this section, may be included in the written instructions furnished to vehicle owners under paragraph (a) of this section, provided that such instructions clearly state, in a form approved by the Administrator, that the owner need not perform such inspections or recommended maintenance in order to maintain the emission warranty or manufacturer recall liability.

(e) If the vehicle has been granted an alternative useful life period under the provisions of § 86.1805-01(c), the manufacturer may choose to include in such instructions an explanation of the distinction between the alternative useful life specified on the label, and the emissions defect and emissions performance warranty period. The explanation must clearly state that the useful life period specified on the label represents the average period of use up to retirement or rebuild for the test group represented by the engine used in the vehicle. An explanation of how the actual useful lives of engines used in various applications are expected to differ from the average useful life may be included. The explanation(s) shall be in clear, non-technical language that is understandable to the ultimate purchaser.

(f) Emission control diagnostic service information:
