
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Cost of required information.

(7)(i) All information required to be made available by this section shall be made available at a fair and reasonable price. In determining whether a price is fair and reasonable, consideration may be given to relevant factors, including, but not limited to, the following:

(A) The net cost to the manufacturer-franchised dealerships for similar information obtained from manufacturers, less any discounts, rebates, or other incentive programs.

(B) The cost to the manufacturer for preparing and distributing the information, excluding any research and development costs incurred in designing and implementing, upgrading or altering the onboard computer and its software or any other vehicle part or component. Amortized capital costs for the preparation and distribution of the information may be included.

(C) The price charged by other manufacturers for similar information.

(D) The price charged by manufacturers for similar information prior to the launch of manufacturer Web sites.

(E) The ability of aftermarket technicians or shops to afford the information.

(F) The means by which the information is distributed.

(G) The extent to which the information is used, which includes the number of users, and frequency, duration, and volume of use.

(H) Inflation.

(ii) By August 26, 2003, each manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a request for approval of their pricing structure for their Web sites and amounts to be charged for the information required to be made available under paragraphs (f)(3) and (f)(5) of this section. Subsequent to the approval of the manufacturer Web site pricing structure, each manufacturer shall notify the Administrator upon the increase in price of any one or all of the subscription options of 20 percent or more above the previously approved price, taking inflation into account.

(A) The manufacturer shall submit a request to the Administrator that sets forth a detailed description of the pricing structure and amounts, and support for the position that the pricing structure and amounts are fair and reasonable by addressing, at a minimum, each of the factors specified in paragraph (f)(7)(i) of this section.

(B) The Administrator will act on the request within 180 days following receipt of a complete request or following receipt of any additional information requested by the Administrator.

(C) The Administrator may decide not to approve, or to withdraw approval for a manufacturer's pricing structure and amounts based on a conclusion that this pricing structure and/or amounts are not, or are no longer, fair and reasonable, by sending written notice to the manufacturer explaining the basis for this decision.

(D) In the case of a decision by the Administrator not to approve or to withdraw approval, the manufacturer shall within three months following notice of this decision, obtain Administrator approval for a revised pricing structure and amounts by following the approval process described in this paragraph (f)(7)(ii).
