
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Anti-theft system initialization information.

(6)Computer or anti-theft system initialization information and/or related tools necessary for the proper installation of on-board computers or necessary for the completion of any emissions-related repair on motor vehicles that employ integral vehicle security systems or the repair or replacement of any other emission-related part shall be made available at a fair and reasonable cost to the persons specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section.

(i) Except as provided under paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section, manufacturers must make this information available to persons specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section, such that such persons will not need any special tools or manufacturer-specific scan tools to perform the initialization. Manufacturers may make such information available through, for example, generic aftermarket tools, a pass-through device, or inexpensive manufacturer specific cables.

(ii) A manufacturer may request Administrator approval for an alternative means to re-initialize vehicles for some or all model year vehicles through the 2007 model year by 1 month following the effective date of the final rule. The Administrator shall approve the request only after the following conditions have been met:

(A) The manufacturer must demonstrate that the availability of such information to aftermarket service providers would significantly increase the risk of vehicle theft.

(B) The manufacturer must make available a reasonable alternative means to install or repair computers, or to otherwise repair or replace an emission-related part.

(C) Any alternative means proposed by a manufacturer cannot require aftermarket technicians to use a manufacturer-franchised dealership to obtain information or special tools to re-initialize the anti-theft system. All information must come directly from the manufacturer or a single manufacturer-specified designee.

(D) Any alternative means proposed by a manufacturer must be available to aftermarket technicians at a fair and reasonable price.

(E) Any alternative must be available to aftermarket technicians within twenty-four hours of the initial request.

(F) Any alternative must not require the purchase of a special tool or tools, including manufacturer-specific tools, to complete this repair. Alternatives may include lease of such tools, but only for appropriately minimal cost.

(G) In lieu of leasing their manufacturer-specific tool to meet this requirement, a manufacturer may also release the necessary information to equipment and tool manufacturers for incorporation into aftermarket scan tools. Any manufacturer choosing this option must release the information to equipment and tool manufacturers within 60 days of Administrator approval. Manufacturers may also comply with this requirement using SAE J2534 for some or all model years through model year 2007.
