
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Required emissions-related training information.

(10)By December 24, 2003, for emissions-related training information, manufacturers shall:

(i) Video tape or otherwise duplicate and make available for sale on manufacturer Web sites within 30 days after transmission any emissions-related training courses provided to manufacturer-franchised dealerships via the Internet or satellite transmission;

(ii) Provide on the manufacturer's Web site an index of all emissions-related training information available for purchase by aftermarket service providers for 1994 and newer vehicles. The required information must be made available for purchase within 3 months of model introduction and then must be made available at the same time it is made available to manufacturer-franchised dealerships, whichever is earlier. The index shall describe the title of the course or instructional session, the cost of the video tape or duplicate, and information on how to order the item(s) from the manufacturer Web site. All of the items available must be shipped within 24 hours of the order being placed and are to be made available at a fair and reasonable price as described in paragraph (f)(7) of this section. Manufacturers unable to meet the 24 hour shipping requirement under circumstances where orders exceed supply and additional time is needed by the distributor to reproduce the item being ordered may exceed the 24 hour shipping requirement, but in no instance can take longer than 14 days to ship the item.

(iii) Provide access to third-party training providers as defined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section all emission-related training courses transmitted via satellite or Internet offered to their manufacturer-franchised dealerships. Manufacturers may not charge unreasonable up-front fees to third-party training providers for this access, but may require a royalty, percentage, or other arranged fee based on per-use enrollment/subscription basis. Manufacturers may take reasonable steps to protect any copyrighted information and are not required to provide this information to parties that do not agree to such steps.
