
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### 3

() Any other information specified by the Administrator to be relevant for the diagnosis and repair of an emissions-related failure found through the inspection and maintenance program after such finding has been communicated to the affected manufacturer(s).

(E) Emissions-related training information means any information related to training or instruction for the purpose of the diagnosis, service, and repair of emissions-related components.

(F) Enhanced service and repair information means information which is specific for an original equipment manufacturer's brand of tools and equipment. This includes computer or anti-theft system initialization information necessary for the completion of any emissions-related repair on motor vehicles that employ integral vehicle security systems.

(G) Equipment and tool company means a registered automotive equipment or software company either public or private that is engaged in, or plans to engage in, the manufacture of automotive scan tool reprogramming equipment or software.

(H) Generic service and repair information means information which is not specific for an original equipment manufacturer's brand of tools and equipment.

(I) Indirect information means any information that is not specifically contained in the service literature, but is contained in items such as tools or equipment provided to franchised dealers (or others). This includes computer or anti-theft system initialization information necessary for the completion of any emissions-related repair on motor vehicles that employ integral vehicle security systems.

(J) Intermediary means any individual or entity, other than an original equipment manufacturer, which provides service or equipment to aftermarket service providers.

(K) Manufacturer-franchised dealership means any service provider with which a manufacturer has a direct business relationship.

(L) Third-party information provider means any individual or entity, other than an original equipment manufacturer, who consolidates manufacturer service information and makes this information available to aftermarket service providers.

(M) Third-party training provider means any individual or entity, other than an original equipment manufacturer who develops and/or delivers instructional and educational material for automotive training courses.
