
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Prohibited Acts, Liability and Remedies.

(19)(i) It is a prohibited act for any person to fail to promptly provide or cause a failure to promptly provide information as required by this paragraph (f), or to otherwise fail to comply or cause a failure to comply with any provision of this paragraph (f).

(ii) Any person who fails or causes the failure to comply with any provision of this paragraph (f) is liable for a violation of that provision. A corporation is presumed liable for any violations of this subpart that are committed by any of its subsidiaries, affiliates or parents that are substantially owned by it or substantially under its control.

(iii) Any person who violates a provision of this paragraph (f) shall be subject to a civil penalty of not more than $32,500 per day for each violation. This maximum penalty is shown for calendar year 2004. Maximum penalty limits for later years may be set higher based on the Consumer Price Index, as specified in 40 CFR part 19. In addition, such person shall be liable for all other remedies set forth in Title II of the Clean Air Act, remedies pertaining to provisions of Title II of the Clean Air Act, or other applicable provisions of law.

(g) Through model year 2013, the manufacturer shall furnish or cause to be furnished to the purchaser the following statement for each new diesel-fueled Tier 2 vehicle (certified using a test fuel with 15 ppm sulfur or less): "This vehicle must be operated only with ultra low sulfur diesel fuel (that is, diesel fuel meeting EPA specifications for highway diesel fuel, including a 15 ppm sulfur cap)."
