
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Generic and enhanced information for scan tools.

(13)Manufacturers shall make available to equipment and tool companies all generic and enhanced service information including bi-directional control and data stream information as defined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section. This requirement applies for 1996 and later model year vehicles.

(i) The information required by this paragraph (f)(13) of this section shall be provided electronically using common document formats to equipment and tool companies with whom they have appropriate licensing, contractual, and/or confidentiality arrangements. To the extent that a central repository for this information (e.g. the TEK-NET library developed by the Equipment and Tool Institute) is used to warehouse this information, the Administrator shall have free unrestricted access. In addition, information required by paragraph (f)(13) of this section shall be made available to equipment and tool companies who are not otherwise members of any central repository and shall have access if the non-members have arranged for the appropriate licensing, contractual and/or confidentiality arrangements with the manufacturer and/or a central repository.

(ii) In addition to the generic and enhanced information defined in paragraph (f)(2)(ii) of this section, manufacturers shall also make available the following information necessary for developing generic diagnostic scan tools:

(A) The physical hardware requirements for data communication (e.g. system voltage requirements, cable terminals/pins, connections such as RS232 or USB, wires, etc.)

(B) ECU data communication (e.g. serial data protocols, transmission speed or baud rate, bit timing requirements, etc.),

(C) Information on the application physical interface (API) or layers. (i.e., processing algorithms or software design descriptions for procedures such as connection, initialization, and termination),

(D) Vehicle application information or any other related service information such as special pins and voltages or additional vehicle connectors that require enablement and specifications for the enablement.

(iii) Any manufacturer who utilizes an automated process in its manufacturer-specific scan tool for diagnostic fault trees shall make available to equipment and tool companies the data schema, detail specifications, including category types/codes and vehicle codes, and data format/content structure of the diagnostic trouble trees.

(iv) Manufacturers can satisfy the requirement of paragraph (f)(13)(iii) of this section by making available diagnostic trouble trees on their Web sites in full text.
