
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Reprogramming information.

(12)(i) Manufacturers shall make available to the persons specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section all emissions-related recalibration or reprogramming events (including driveability reprogramming events that may affect emissions) in the format of its choice at the same time they are made available to manufacturer-franchised dealerships. This requirement takes effect on September 25, 2003, and within 3 months of model introduction for all new model years.

(ii) Manufacturers shall provide persons specified in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section with an efficient and cost-effective method for identifying whether the calibrations on vehicles are the latest to be issued. This requirement takes effect on September 25, 2003, and within 3 months of model introduction for all new model years.

(iii) For all 2004 and later OBD vehicles equipped with reprogramming capability, manufacturers shall comply with SAE J2534 (Incorporated by reference, see ยง 86.1). Any manufacturer who cannot comply with SAE J2534 in model year 2004 may request one year additional lead time from the Administrator.

(iv) For model years 2004 and later, manufacturers shall make available to aftermarket service providers the necessary manufacturer-specific software applications and calibrations needed to initiate pass-through reprogramming. This software shall be able to run on a standard personal computer that utilizes standard operating systems as specified in SAE J2534 (Incorporated by reference, see ยง 86.1).

(v) For model years prior to 2004, manufacturers may use SAE J2534 as described above, provided they make available to the aftermarket any additional required hardware (i.e., cables). Manufacturers may not require the purchase or use of a manufacturer-specific scan tool to receive or use this additional hardware. Manufacturers must also make available the necessary manufacturer-specific software applications and calibrations needed to initiate pass-through reprogramming. Manufacturers must also make available to equipment and tool companies any information needed to develop aftermarket equivalents of the manufacturer-specific hardware.

(vi) Manufacturers may take any reasonable business precautions necessary to protect proprietary business information and are not required to provide this information to any party that does not agree to these reasonable business precautions. The requirement to make hardware available and to release the information to equipment and tool companies takes effect on September 25, 2003, and within 3 months of model introduction for all new model years.

(vii) Manufacturers who cannot comply with paragraphs (f)(12)(v) and (f)(12)(vi) of this section shall make available to equipment and tool companies by September 25, 2003 the following information necessary for reprogramming the ECU:

(A) The physical hardware requirements for reprogramming events or tools (e.g. system voltage requirements, cable terminals/pins, connections such as RS232 or USB, wires, etc.).

(B) ECU data communication (e.g. serial data protocols, transmission speed or baud rate, bit timing requirements, etc.).

(C) Information on the application physical interface (API) or layers (descriptions for procedures such as connection, initialization, performing and verifying programming/download, and termination).

(D) Vehicle application information or any other related service information such as special pins and voltages for reprogramming events or additional vehicle connectors that require enablement and specifications for the enablement.

(E) Information that describes what interfaces or combinations of interfaces are used to deliver calibrations from database media (e.g. PC using CDROM to the reprogramming device e.g. scan tool or black box).

(viii) A manufacturer can propose an alternative to the requirements of paragraph (f)(12)(vii) of this section for how aftermarket service providers can reprogram an ECU. The Administrator will approve this alternative if the manufacturer demonstrates all of the following:

(A) That it cannot comply with paragraph (f)(12)(v) of this section for the vehicles subject to the alternative plan;

(B) That a very small percentage of its vehicles in model years prior to 2004 cannot be reprogrammed with the provisions described in paragraph (f)(12)(v) of this section, or that releasing the information to tool companies would likely not result in this information being incorporated into aftermarket tools; and

(C) That aftermarket service providers will be able to reprogram promptly at a reasonable cost.

(ix) In meeting the requirements of paragraphs (f)(12)(v) through (f)(12)(vii) of this section, manufacturers may take any reasonable business precautions necessary to protect proprietary business information and are not required to provide this information to any party that does not agree to these reasonable business precautions.
