
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Reference materials.

(17)Manufacturers shall conform with the following Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) standards.

(i) For Web-based delivery of service information, manufacturers shall comply with SAE Recommended Practice J1930 (Revised, May 1998), "Electrical/Electronic Systems Diagnostic Terms, Definitions, Abbreviations, and Acronyms" (Incorporated by reference, see § 86.1). This recommended practice standardizes various terms, abbreviations, and acronyms associated with on-board diagnostics. Manufacturers shall comply with SAE J1930 (Incorporated by reference, see § 86.1) beginning with Model Year 2004.

(ii) For identification and scaling information necessary to interpret and understand data available to a generic scan tool through "mode 6", manufacturers shall comply with SAE Recommended Practice J1979 (Revised, September, 1997), "EE Diagnostic Test Modes" (Incorporated by reference, see § 86.1). This recommended practice describes the implementation of the diagnostic test modes for emissions-related test data. Manufacturers shall comply with SAE J1979 beginning with Model Year 2004.

(iii) For allowing ECU and equipment and tool manufacturers to satisfy the needs of multiple end users with minimum modification to a basic ECU design, manufacturers shall comply with SAE Recommended Practice J2284-3 (May, 2001), "High Speed CAN (HSC) for Vehicle Applications at 500 KBPS" (Incorporated by reference, see § 86.1). SAE J2284-3 establishes standard ECU physical layer, data link layer, and media design criteria. Manufacturers may comply with SAE J2284-3 beginning with model year 2003 and shall comply with SAE J2284-3 beginning with model year 2008.

(iv) For pass-through reprogramming capabilities, manufacturers shall comply with SAE Recommended Practice J2534 (February, 2002), "Recommended Practice for Pass-Thru Vehicle Programming" (Incorporated by reference, see § 86.1). This recommended practice provides technical specifications and information that manufacturers must supply to equipment and tool companies to develop aftermarket pass-through reprogramming tools. Manufacturers shall comply with SAE J2534 beginning with model year 2004.
