
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Archived information.

(ii)Manufacturers must maintain the required information on their Web sites in full-text as defined in paragraph (f)(5) of this section for a minimum of 15 years after model introduction. Subsequent to this fifteen year period, manufacturers may archive the information in the manufacturer's format of choice and provide an index of the archived information on the manufacturer Web site and how it can be obtained by interested parties. Manufacturers shall index their available information with a title that adequately describes the contents of the document to which it refers. Manufacturers may allow for the ordering of information directly from their Web site, or from a Web site hyperlinked to the manufacturer Web site. In the alternative, manufacturers shall list a phone number and address where aftermarket service providers can call or write to obtain the desired information. Manufacturers must also provide the price of each item listed, as well as the price of items ordered on a subscription basis. To the extent that any additional information is added or changed for these model years, manufacturers shall update the index as appropriate. Manufacturers will be responsible for ensuring that all information, including information that is distributed through information distributors, is provided within one regular business day of receiving the order. Items that are less than 20 pages (e.g. technical service bulletins) shall be faxed, if requested, to the requestor and distributors are required to deliver the information overnight if requested and paid for by the ordering party. Archived information must be made available on demand and at a fair and reasonable price.
