
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1808-01 Maintenance instructions.
####### Reporting requirements.

(18)Manufacturers shall provide to the Administrator reports on an annual basis within 30 days of the end of the calendar year and upon request of the Administrator, that describe the performance of their individual Web sites. These annual reports shall be submitted to the Administrator electronically utilizing non-proprietary software in the format as agreed to by the Administrator and the manufacturers. Manufacturers may request Administrator approval to report on parameters other than those described below if the manufacturer can demonstrate that those alternate parameters will provide sufficient and similar information for the Administrator to effectively evaluate the manufacturer Web site. These annual reports shall include, at a minimum, monthly measurements of the following parameters:

(i) Total successful requests (measured in number of files including graphic interchange formats (GIFs) and joint photographic expert group (JPEG) images, i.e. electronic images such as wiring or other diagrams or pictures). This is defined as the total successful request counts of all the files which have been requested, including pages, graphics, etc.

(ii) Total failed requests (measured in number of files). This is defined as the total failed request counts of all the files which were requested but failed because they could not be found or were read-protected. This includes pages, graphics, etc.

(iii) Average data transferred per day (measured by bytes). This is defined as average amount of data transferred per day from one place to another.

(iv) Daily Summary (measured in number of files/pages by day of week). This is defined as the total number of requests each day of the week, over the time period given at the beginning of the report.

(v) Daily report (measured in number of files/pages by the day of the month). This is defined as how many requests there were in each day of a specific month.

(vi) Browser Summary (measured in number of files/pages by browser type, i.e., Netscape, Internet Explorer). This is defined as the versions of a browser by vendor.

(vii) Any other information deemed necessary by the Administrator to determine the adequacy of a manufacturer Web site.
