
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1810-01 General standards; increase in emissions; unsafe conditions; waivers.
####### Supplemental FTP general provisions.

(i)(1) Implementation schedules. A minimum of the percentage of a manufacturer's model year sales of light-duty vehicles or light light-duty trucks (considered independently) shown in Table S01-1 and heavy light-duty trucks shown in Table S01-2 shall not exceed the applicable SFTP standards found in paragraph (b) of §§ 86.1811-01, 1812-01, 1813-01, 1814-02, and 1815-02 when tested under the applicable procedures in subpart B of this part. Tables S01-1 and S01-2 follow:

(2) Optionally, a minimum of the percentage shown in Table S01-1 of a manufacturer's combined sales of the applicable model year's light-duty vehicles and light light-duty trucks shall not exceed the applicable SFTP standards. Under this option, the light-duty vehicles shall not exceed the applicable SFTP standards in § 86.1811-01(b), and the light light-duty trucks shall not exceed the applicable SFTP standards in § 86.1812-01(b) or § 86.1813-01(b) as applicable.

(3) Sales percentages for the purposes of determining compliance with the applicable SFTP emission standards shall be based on total actual U.S. sales of light-duty vehicles of the applicable model year by a manufacturer to a dealer, distributor, fleet operator, broker, or any other entity which comprises the point of first sale. If the option of paragraph (i)(2) of this section is taken, such sales percentages shall be based on the total actual combined U.S. sales of light-duty vehicles and light light-duty trucks of the applicable model year by a manufacturer to a dealer, distributor, fleet operator, broker, or any other entity which comprises the point of first sale.

(4) The SFTP standards do not apply to vehicles or trucks certified on alternative fuels, but the standards do apply to the gasoline and diesel fuel operation of flexible fuel vehicles and trucks and dual fuel vehicles and trucks.

(5) The SFTP standards do not apply to vehicles or trucks tested at high altitude.

(6) The air to fuel ratio shall not be richer at any time than the leanest air to fuel mixture required to obtain maximum torque (lean best torque), plus a tolerance of six percent. The Administrator may approve a manufacturer's request for additional enrichment if it can be shown that additional enrichment is needed to protect the engine or emissions control hardware. For Tier 2 and interim non-Tier 2 vehicles, this provision does not apply to enrichment that occurs upon cold start, warm-up conditions and rapid-throttle motion conditions ("tip-in" or "tip-out" conditions).

(7) The requirement to use a single roll dynamometer (or a dynamometer which produces equivalent results), discussed in §§ 86.108-00, 86.118-00, and 86.129-00 of subpart B of this part, applies to all SFTP and FTP test elements as set forth in subpart B of this part for test groups which are designated as SFTP compliant under the implementation schedules in Tables S01-1 and S01-2 in paragraph (i)(1) of this section.

(8) Small volume provisions. (i) Light-duty vehicles and light light-duty trucks manufactured by small volume manufacturers, as described in § 86.1801-01(d), are exempt from the requirements of this paragraph until model year 2002, when 100 percent compliance with the provisions of this paragraph (i) and the SFTP standards in §§ 86.1811-01(b) and 86.1812-01(b) is required. This exemption does not apply to small volume test groups as defined in § 86.1838-01(b)(2).

(ii) Heavy light-duty trucks manufactured by small volume manufacturers, as defined in § 86.1801-01, are exempt from the requirements of this paragraph (i) until model year 2004 when 100 percent compliance with the provisions of this paragraph and the SFTP standards in §§ 86.1814-02(b) and 86.1815-02(b) is required. This exemption does not apply to small volume test groups as defined in § 86.1838-01(b)(2).

(9) [Reserved]

(10) The manufacturer must state at the time of Application for Certification, based on projected U.S. sales or projected production for U.S. sale, which test groups will be used to attain the required implementation schedule sales percentages for certification purposes.

(11) A manufacturer cannot use one set of test groups to meet its intermediate useful life standards and another to meet its full useful life standards. The same test groups which are used to meet the intermediate useful life standards will be required to meet the corresponding full useful life standards.

(12) Compliance with composite standards shall be demonstrated using the calculations set forth in § 86.164-00.
