
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1810-01 General standards; increase in emissions; unsafe conditions; waivers.
####### A/C-on specific calibrations.

(13)(i) For Tier 2 and interim non-Tier 2 vehicles, A/C-on specific calibrations (e.g. air to fuel ratio, spark timing, and exhaust gas recirculation), may be used which differ from A/C-off calibrations for given engine operating conditions (e.g., engine speed, manifold pressure, coolant temperature, air charge temperature, and any other parameters).

(ii) Such calibrations must not unnecessarily reduce the NMHC + NOemission control effectiveness during A/C-on operation when the vehicle is operated under conditions which may reasonably be expected to be encountered during normal operation and use.

(iii) If reductions in control system NMHC + NOeffectiveness do occur as a result of such calibrations, the manufacturer must, in the Application for Certification, specify the circumstances under which such reductions do occur, and the reason for the use of such calibrations resulting in such reductions in control system effectiveness.

(iv) A/C-on specific "open-loop" or "commanded enrichment" air-fuel enrichment strategies (as defined below), which differ from A/C-off "open-loop" or "commanded enrichment" air-fuel enrichment strategies, may not be used, with the following exceptions: Cold-start and warm-up conditions, or, subject to Administrator approval, conditions requiring the protection of the vehicle, occupants, engine, or emission control hardware. Other than these exceptions, such strategies which are invoked based on manifold pressure, engine speed, throttle position, or other engine parameters must use the same engine parameter criteria for the invoking of this air-fuel enrichment strategy and the same degree of enrichment regardless of whether the A/C is on or off. "Open-loop" or "commanded" air-fuel enrichment strategy is defined as enrichment of the air to fuel ratio beyond stoichiometry for the purposes of increasing engine power output and the protection of engine or emissions control hardware. However, "closed-loop biasing," defined as small changes in the air-fuel ratio for the purposes of optimizing vehicle emissions or driveability, must not be considered an "open-loop" or "commanded" air-fuel enrichment strategy. In addition, "transient" air-fuel enrichment strategy (or "tip-in" and "tip-out" enrichment), defined as the temporary use of an air-fuel ratio rich of stoichiometry at the beginning or duration of rapid throttle motion, must not be considered an "open-loop" or "commanded" air-fuel enrichment strategy.
