
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1810-01 General standards; increase in emissions; unsafe conditions; waivers.
####### Evaporative emissions general provisions.

(j)(1) The evaporative standards in §§ 86.1811-01(d), 86.1811-04(e), 86.1812-01(d), 86.1813-01(d), 86.1814-01(d), 86.1814-02(d), 86.1815-01(d), 1815-02(d) and 86.1816-04(d) apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles and trucks. The spitback standard also applies to newly assembled vehicles.

(2) For certification testing only, manufacturers may conduct testing to quantify a level of non-fuel background emissions for an individual test vehicle. Such a demonstration must include a description of the source(s) of emissions and an estimated decay rate. The demonstrated level of non-fuel background emissions may be subtracted from evaporative emission test results from certification vehicles if approved in advance by the Administrator.

(3) All fuel vapor generated in a gasoline- or methanol-fueled light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, or complete heavy-duty vehicle during in-use operation shall be routed exclusively to the evaporative control system (e.g., either canister or engine purge.) The only exception to this requirement shall be for emergencies.

(4) For certification purposes, where the applicable California evaporative emission standard is as stringent or more stringent than the applicable federal evaporative emission standard, the Administrator may accept California certification test data indicating compliance with the California standard to demonstrate compliance with the appropriate federal certification evaporative emission standard. The Administrator may require the manufacturer to provide comparative test data which clearly demonstrates that a vehicle meeting the California evaporative standard (when tested under California test conditions/test procedures) will also meet the appropriate federal evaporative emission standard when tested under federal test conditions/test procedures described in this part 86.
