
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1810-09 General standards; increase in emissions; unsafe condition; waivers.
####### Altitude requirements.

(f)(1) All emission standards apply at low altitude conditions and at high altitude conditions, with the following exceptions:

(i) The supplemental exhaust emission standards as described in § 86.1811-04(f) apply only at low altitude conditions;

(ii) The cold temperature NMHC emission standards as described in § 86.1811-10(g) apply only at low altitude conditions;

(iii) The evaporative emission standards specified in § 86.1811-09(e) apply at low altitude conditions. The evaporative emission standards specified in § 86.1811-04(e) continue to apply at high altitude conditions for 2009 and later model year vehicles.

(2) For vehicles that comply with the cold temperature NMHC standards described in § 86.1811-10(g) and the CO, NO, and CHexhaust emission standards described in § 86.1818-12, manufacturers must submit an engineering evaluation indicating that common calibration approaches are utilized at high altitudes (except when there are specific high altitude calibration needs to deviate from low altitude emission control practices). Any deviation from low altitude emission control practices must be included in the auxiliary emission control device (AECD) descriptions submitted at certification. Any AECD specific to high altitude must require engineering emission data for EPA evaluation to quantify any emission impact and validity of the AECD.

(g) through (p) [Reserved] For guidance see § 86.1810-01.
