
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1810-09 General standards; increase in emissions; unsafe condition; waivers.

Section 86.1810-09 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.1810-01. Where a paragraph in § 86.1810-01 is identical and applicable to § 86.1810-09, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement "[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1810-01." Where a corresponding paragraph of § 86.1810-01 is not applicable, this is indicated by the statement "[Reserved]" This section applies to model year 2009 and later light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks fueled by gasoline, diesel, methanol, ethanol, natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas fuels. This section also applies to MDPVs and complete heavy-duty vehicles certified according to the provisions of this subpart. Multi-fueled vehicles (including dual-fueled and flexible-fueled vehicles) must comply with all requirements established for each consumed fuel (or blend of fuels in the case of flexible fueled vehicles). The standards of this subpart apply to both certification and in-use vehicles unless otherwise indicated. This section also applies to hybrid electric vehicles and zero emission vehicles. Unless otherwise specified, requirements and provisions of this subpart applicable to methanol fueled vehicles are also applicable to Tier 2 and interim non-Tier 2 ethanol fueled vehicles.

(a) through (e) [Reserved] For guidance see § 86.1810-01.
