
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Tier 2 FTP exhaust emission standards.

(c)Exhaust emissions from Tier 2 vehicles must not exceed the standards in Table S04-1 of this section at full useful life when tested over the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) described in subpart B of this part. Exhaust emissions from Tier 2 vehicles must not exceed the standards in Table S04-2 of this section at intermediate useful life, if applicable, when tested over the FTP.

(1) For a given test group a manufacturer desires to certify to operate only on one fuel, the manufacturer must select a set of standards from the same bin (line or row) in Table S04-1 of this section for non-methane organic gases (NMOG), carbon monoxide (CO), oxides of nitrogen (NO), formaldehyde (HCHO) and particulate matter (PM). The manufacturer must certify the test group to meet those standards, subject to all the applicable provisions of this subpart. The manufacturer must also certify the test group to meet the intermediate useful life standards (if any) in Table S04-2 of this section having the same EPA bin reference number as the chosen full useful life standards.

(2) For a given test group of flexible-fueled, bi-fuel or dual fuel vehicles when operated on the alcohol or gaseous fuel they are designed to use, manufacturers must select a bin of standards from Table S04-1 of this section and the corresponding bin in Table S04-2, if any. When these flexible-fueled, bi-fuel or dual fuel vehicles are certified to operate on gasoline or diesel fuel, the manufacturer may choose to comply with the next numerically higher applicable NMOG standard, if any, above the bin which contains the standards selected for certification on the gaseous or alcohol fuel.

(3)(i) For a given test group of flexible-fueled, bi-fuel or dual fuel vehicles certified to bin 10 in Table S04-1, when operated on the alcohol or gaseous fuel they are designed to use, manufacturers may choose to comply with an NMOG standard of 0.230 for LDV/LLDTs or 0.280 g/mi for HLDT/MDPVs at full useful life and corresponding intermediate life standards of 0.160 g/mi and 0.195 g/mi, respectively, when these flexible-fueled, bi-fuel or dual fuel vehicles are certified to operate on gasoline or diesel fuel.

(ii) For a given test group of flexible-fueled, bi-fuel or dual fuel vehicles certified to bin 8 in Table S04-1, when operated on the alcohol or gaseous fuel they are designed to use, manufacturers may choose to comply with a NMOG standard of 0.156 g/mi for LDV/LLDTs and 0.180 for HLDT/MDPVs at full useful life and corresponding intermediate life standards of 0.125 g/mi and 0.140 g/mi, respectively, when these flexible-fueled, bi-fuel or dual fuel vehicles are certified to operate on gasoline or diesel fuel.

(4)(i) For bins where intermediate life standards are applicable, a manufacturer may elect not to comply with such standards. Except as permitted in paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section, the manufacturer must certify such vehicles to a useful life of 15 years or 150,000 miles, whichever occurs first, for LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs.

(ii) A manufacturer electing not to comply with intermediate life standards, as permitted in paragraph (c)(4)(i) of this section, may not generate additional NOcredits as described under ยง 86.1860-04 (g), except as permitted in paragraph (c)(4)(iii) of this section.

(iii) For bins where intermediate life standards are not applicable, or are specified to be optional by paragraph (c)(4)(iv) of this section, a manufacturer may generate additional NOcredits subject to the provisions in ยง 86.1860-04 (g).

(iv) For diesel vehicles certified to bin 9 or bin 10, intermediate life standards are optional regardless of whether the manufacturer certifies the test group to a full useful life of 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles.

(5) In a given model year, an individual vehicle may not be included in both the Tier 2 program and an interim program.

(6) Tables S04-1 and S04-2 follow:
