
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Applicability.

(a)(1) This section contains regulations implementing emission standards for all LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs. This section applies to 2004 and later model year LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs fueled by gasoline, diesel, methanol, ethanol, natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas fuels, except as noted. Additionally, this section contains provisions applicable to hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) and zero emission vehicles (ZEVs). Multi-fueled vehicles must comply with all requirements established for each consumed fuel.

(2) This section also applies to LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs of model years prior to 2004, when manufacturers certify such vehicles to Tier 2 exhaust emission requirements to utilize alternate phase-in schedules, as allowed under paragraph (k)(6) of this section, and/or to earn early NOcredits for use in complying with the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard which takes effect in the 2004 model year for LDV/LLDTs and 2008 for HLDT/MDPVs.

(3) Except where otherwise specified, this section applies instead of §§ 86.1811-01, 86.1812-01, 86.1813-01, 86.1814-01, 86.1814-02, 86.1815-01, and 86.1815-02.

(4) Except where otherwise specified, the provisions of this section apply equally to LDVs and all categories of LDTs, and to all MDPVs. Numerous provisions are applicable equally to HLDTs and MDPVs, as reflected by the term HLDT/MDPV. Numerous provisions apply equally to LDVs and LLDTs as reflected by the term LDV/LLDT.

(5) The exhaust emission standards and evaporative emission standards of this section apply equally to certification and in-use LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs, unless otherwise specified.
