
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Phase-in schedule for interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs.

(iv)Table S04-9 of this paragraph (l) specifies the minimum percentage of the manufacturer's interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPV U.S. sales, by model year, that must comply with the fleet average NOstandard described in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section. Table S04-9 follows:

(v)(A) A manufacturer may elect an alternate phase-in schedule, beginning as early as the 2001 model year, that results in 100% compliance by 2007 with the fleet average NOstandard for interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs described in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section. The requirements of paragraph (k)(6) of this section apply to the selection of an alternate phase-in schedule.

(B) If a manufacturer elects not to bring all of its HLDT/MDPVs into compliance with the interim requirements in 2004 as permitted under paragraphs (l)(2)(vii) and

(viii) of this section, it may still use an alternate phase-in schedule to attain 100% compliance with the interim fleet average NOstandard for HLDT/MDPVs, but the sum of phase-in percentages it must meet will be 225% rather than 250%. If the manufacturer commences its 2004 model year on or after December 21, 2003, for any HLDT/MDPVs, the manufacturer must increase the 225% by the fraction of its 2004 model year HLDT/MDPVs whose model year commenced on or after that date and which were brought into compliance with the 0.20 g/mi corporate average NOstandard as required under paragraph (l)(2)(ix) of this section. The manufacturer must ensure that the sum of the percentages of vehicles up through model year 2005 complying with the interim fleet average NOstandard is at least 50%.

(vi) The provisions of paragraphs (c) (1), (2) and (3) of this section apply to flexible-fueled, dual fuel and multi-fuel interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs.

(vii) For 2004 model year HLDT test groups whose model year commences before December 21, 2003, the manufacturer may exempt such HLDTs from compliance with any requirements applicable to interim non-Tier 2 HLDTs, and such HLDTs must be produced in accordance with standards and requirements in §§ 86.1814-02 and 86.1815-02. Such HLDTs must also meet the refueling emission standards contained in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(viii) For 2004 model year heavy-duty vehicles whose model year commences before December 21, 2003, the manufacturer may exempt such vehicles from compliance with any requirements applicable to interim non-Tier 2 MDPVs. Exempted vehicles will not be considered MDPVs and must be produced in accordance with standards and requirements in § 86.099-10. Exempted vehicles are also exempted from refueling emission standards.

(ix) For 2004 model year HLDT and MDPV test groups whose model year commences on or after December 21, 2003, the manufacturer must comply with all interim non-Tier 2 requirements in this section.

(A) All such vehicles, but not more than 25% of the manufacturer's total sales of 2004 model year HLDT/MDPVs must meet the interim non-Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard as described in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section.

(B) All such vehicles but not more than 40% of the manufacturer's 2004 model year HLDT/MDPVs must comply with the refueling requirements in paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(x) Only those manufacturers that comply with the interim non-Tier 2 FTP standards for all of their 2004 model year HLDTs and declare their intention to comply with the 2004 model year 25% phase-in requirement to the fleet average interim NOstandard for HLDTs or HLDT/MDPVs of 0.20 g/mi described in paragraph (l) of this section may use the optional higher NMOG values for interim LDT4s certified to bin 10 standards that are shown in Tables S04-1 and 2 of paragraph (c) of this section. Manufacturers must declare their intention to comply with the 2004 model year 25% phase-in requirement in Part I of their HLDT certification applications.

(xi) Only those manufacturers that comply with the interim non-Tier 2 FTP standards for all of their 2004 model year MDPVs, and declare their intention to comply with the 2004 model year 25% phase-in requirement to the fleet average interim NOstandard for MDPVs or HLDT/MDPVs of 0.20 g/mi described in paragraph (l) of this section may:

(A) Use the exhaust emission standards of bin 11 in Tables S04-1 and S04-2 of paragraph (c) in this section for MDPVs through model year 2008;

(B) For diesel-fueled vehicles, certify the engines in such vehicles, through model year 2007, to provisions in this part 86 applicable to diesel-fueled heavy-duty engines of the appropriate model year. Such diesel fueled vehicles must not be included in any count or determination of compliance with the phase-in requirements applicable to interim non-Tier 2 MDPVs; and

(C) Use the optional higher NMOG values for interim LDT4s certified to bin 10 standards that are shown in Tables S04-1 and 2.

(xii) Manufacturers electing to comply with the provisions of paragraph (l)(2)(xi) of this section must declare their intention to comply with the 2004 model year 25% phase-in requirement to the fleet average interim NOstandard for MDPVs or HLDT/MDPVs of 0.20 g/mi in Part I of their MDPV certification applications.

(xiii) Where diesel-fueled heavy-duty engines are used as permitted under paragraph (l)(2)(xi)(B) of this section, such engines must be treated as a separate averaging set-MDPV HDDEs-under the averaging, banking and trading provisions applicable to heavy-duty diesel engines. Only NOcredits generated by engine-certified diesel engines that are used in other MDPVs can be applied to these engines. Manufacturers wishing to average, bank or trade credits for MDPV HDDEs must comply with the requirements in this paragraph and with all requirements applicable to heavy-duty engine averaging, banking and trading in this part.
