
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Phase-in of the Tier 2 FTP exhaust and evaporative requirements; small volume manufacturer flexibilities.

(k)(1) Manufacturers must comply with the phase-in requirements in Tables S04-7 and S04-8 of this paragraph (k) for the Tier 2 FTP exhaust emission requirements specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Separate phase-in schedules are provided for LDV/LLDTs and for HLDT/MDPVs. These requirements specify the minimum percentage of the manufacturer's LDV/LLDT and HLDT/MDPV U.S. sales, by model year, that must meet the Tier 2 requirements, including the applicable fleet average standard, for their full useful lives. As the terms LDV/LLDT and HLDT/MDVP imply, LDVs and LLDTs must be grouped together to determine compliance with these phase-in requirements and HLDTs and MDPVs must also be grouped together to determine compliance with these phase-in requirements. Tables S04-7 and S04-8 follow:

(2) Manufacturers must also comply with the phase-in requirements in Tables S04-7 and S04-8 of this paragraph (k) for the evaporative emission requirements contained in paragraph (e) of this section.

(3) Manufacturers may opt to use different LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs to meet the phase-in requirements for evaporative emissions and FTP exhaust emissions, provided that the manufacturer meets the minimum applicable phase-in requirements in Table S04-7 and Table S04-8 of this paragraph (k) for both FTP exhaust and evaporative emissions. A LDV, LDT or MDPV counted toward compliance with any phase-in requirement for FTP exhaust or evaporative standards, must comply with all applicable Tier 2 exhaust requirements or all applicable evaporative requirements, respectively, described in this section.

(4) LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs not certified to meet the Tier 2 FTP exhaust requirements during model years 2004-2008, as allowed under this subpart, are subject to the provisions of paragraph (l) of this section.
