
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Supplemental exhaust emission standards for LDV/Ts.

(f)(1) Supplemental exhaust emission standards are applicable to gasoline and diesel-fueled LDV/Ts but are not applicable to MDPVs, alternative fueled LDV/Ts, or flexible fueled LDV/Ts when operated on a fuel other than gasoline or diesel. Except as otherwise specified in this paragraph (f), manufacturers must comply with 4000 mile and full useful life SFTP standards as determined in this paragraph (f). The 4000 mile SFTP standards must be taken from Table S04-4 and the full life SFTP standards must be calculated using the formula in paragraph (f)(2) of this section. Table S04-4 follows:

(2)(i) Manufacturers must calculate their applicable full useful life SFTP standards for NMHC + NO, PM and for CO, if using the weighted CO standard. If not using the weighted CO standard, manufacturers may use the full useful life standalone Tier 1 standards for US06 and SC03. To calculate the applicable full useful life weighted NMHC + NO, PM and CO standards, manufacturers must use the following formula:

(ii)(A) Manufacturers must determine compliance with NMHC + NO, CO and PM weighted SFTP standards calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section by weighting their emission results as follows:

(B) The results of the calculation in paragraph (f)(2)(ii)(A) of this section must be rounded to one more decimal place than the applicable standard calculated in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section and then compared with that standard.

(3) For interim non-Tier 2 gasoline, diesel and flexible-fueled LDT3s and LDT4s, manufacturers may, alternatively, meet the gasoline-fueled vehicle SFTP standards found in §§ 86.1814-02 and 86.1815-02, respectively.

(4) Interim non-Tier 2 gasoline, diesel and flexible-fueled LDV/LLDTs certified to bin 10 FTP exhaust emission standards from Table S04-1 in paragraph (c) of this section may meet the gasoline Tier 1 SFTP requirements found at §§ 86.1811-01(b), 86.1812-01(b), 86.1813-01(b), for LDVs, LDT1s, and LDT2s, respectively.

(5) SFTP standards for PM are not applicable to interim non-Tier 2 LDV/Ts. For Tier 2 LDV/Ts, the 4000 mile PM standard is equal to the full life PM standard calculated under paragraph (f)(2) of this section. The requirements of this paragraph (f)(5) also apply to Tier 2 flexible fuel vehicles when operated on gasoline or diesel fuel. (See regulations in § 86.1829-01(b)(1)(iii)(B) regarding data submittal for PM results for gasoline vehicles.)

(6)(i) In lieu of complying with 4000 mile SFTP standards described in this paragraph, diesel LDV/LLDTs through model year 2006, may comply instead with intermediate life SFTP standards derived from Tier 1 intermediate life SFTP standards for gasoline vehicles.

(ii) To calculate intermediate life SFTP standards, substitute intermediate life Tier 1 FTP and SFTP values from Tables S04-5 and S04-6 in this paragraph (f), as appropriate, for the full life values in the equation in paragraph (f)(2)(i) of this section. Substitute the applicable intermediate life standards for the full life current FTP standard. If there is no applicable intermediate life standard use the full life current FTP standard.

(iii) A manufacturer of diesel LDV/LLDTs must declare which option it will use (4,000 mile or intermediate life standards) in Part I of its certification application.

(7) For diesel vehicles certified to the bin 9 or bin 10 standards of paragraph (c) of this section, 4000 mile SFTP and intermediate life SFTP standards are optional regardless of whether the manufacturer certifies the test group to a full useful life of 120,000 miles or 150,000 miles.

(8)(i) For model year 2007 through 2009 diesel LDVs and diesel LDT1s only, a manufacturer may optionally comply with the 4000 mile US06 NMHC + NOstandard shown in Table S04-4 for LDT2s (0.25 g/mile), instead of the standards for LDV/LDT1s (0.14 g/mile). A manufacturer choosing this option also must comply with intermediate life SFTP NMHC + NOstandards determined using the calculation described under paragraph (f)(6)(ii) of this section. A manufacturer choosing this option must comply with the SFTP NMHC + NOstandard determined under paragraph (f)(6)(ii) not only at intermediate life but also at full useful life and must certify such vehicles to this SFTP NMHC + NOstandard for a full useful life of 150,000 miles or 15 years, whichever occurs first.

(ii) In Part I of its certification application for model years 2007 through 2009, a manufacturer of diesel LDV/LDT1s must declare which provision it will use (the base Tier 2 provision of paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section or the option described in paragraph (f)(8)(i) of this section).
