
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Provisions for small volume manufacturers.

(5)(i) Small volume manufacturers, as defined in this part, are exempt from the Tier 2 LDV/LLDT exhaust and evaporative emissions phase-in requirements for model years 2004, 2005 and 2006 in Table S04-7 of this paragraph (k), but must comply with the 100% requirement for the 2007 and later model years for exhaust and evaporative emissions. If not complying with Tier 2 requirements during 2004, 2005 and 2006, small volume manufacturers must comply with the requirements for interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs.

(ii) Small volume manufacturers, as defined in this part, are exempt from the HLDT/MDPV exhaust and evaporative phase-in requirement for model year 2008 in Table S04-8 of this section but must comply with the 100% requirement for the 2009 model year. Small volume manufacturers are also exempt from the HLDT/MDPV interim fleet average NOstandard (0.20 g/mi) and its phase-in for the 2004, 2005 and 2006 model years.

(iii) Small volume manufacturers must comply with the FTP exhaust emission standards from Tables S04-1 and 2 of paragraph (c) of this section for all HLDT/MDPVs of model years 2004 and later, except that 2004 model year HLDTs may comply with Tier 1 exhaust emission standards subject to the provisions of paragraph (l)(2)(vii) of this section, and 2004 model year MDPVs may comply with heavy-duty vehicle standards subject to the provisions of paragraph (l)(2)(viii) of this section. Small volume manufacturers must also comply with the 0.20 g/mi fleet average NOstandard for 2007 and 2008 model year HLDT/MDPVs; the Tier 2 0.07 g/mi fleet average NOstandard for the 2009 and later model year HLDT/MDPVs; and the evaporative emission standards in Table S04-3 of this section for the 2009 and later model years.

(iv) Vehicles produced by small volume manufacturers, as defined in § 86.1838-01, are exempt from the LDV/LLDT evaporative emissions standards in Table S09-1 of § 86.1811-09(e) for model years 2009 and 2010, but must comply with the Tier 2 evaporative emission standards in Table S04-3 in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for model years 2009 and 2010.

(v) Vehicles produced by small volume manufacturers, as defined in § 86.1838-01, are exempt from the HLDT/MDPV evaporative emissions standards in Table S09-1 of § 86.1811-09(e) for model years 2010 and 2011, but must comply with the Tier 2 evaporative emission standards in Table S04-3 in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for model years 2010 and 2011.

(vi) Small volume manufacturers, as defined in § 86.1838-01, are exempt from the LDV/LLDT cold temperature NMHC phase-in requirements in Table S10-1 of § 86.1811-10(g) for model years 2010, 2011, and 2012, but must comply with the 100% requirement for 2013 and later model years for cold temperature NMHC standards.

(vii) Small volume manufacturers, as defined in § 86.1838-01, are exempt from the HLDT/MDPV cold temperature NMHC phase-in requirements in Table S10-1 of § 86.1811-10(g) for model years 2012, 2013, and 2014, but must comply with the 100% requirement for 2015 and later model years for cold temperature NMHC standards.

(6)(i) A manufacturer may elect an alternate phase-in schedule that results in 100% phase-in for LDV/LLDTs by 2007. Alternate phase-in schedules must produce a sum of at least 250% when the percentages of LDV/LLDTs certified to Tier 2 requirements for each model year from 2001 through 2007 are summed. As an example, a 10/25/50/65/100 percent phase-in that began in 2003 would have a sum of 250 percent and would be acceptable. However, a 10/25/40/70/100 percent phase-in that began the same year would have a sum of 245 percent and would not be acceptable.

(ii) A manufacturer electing this option for LDV/LLDTs may calculate its compliance with the evaporative standards in paragraph (e)(1) of this section separately from its compliance with Tier 2 exhaust standards, provided that the phase-in schedules for each separately produce a sum of at least 250 percent when calculated as described in paragraph (k)(6)(i) of this section. A vehicle counted towards compliance with any phase-in requirement for the Tier 2 exhaust standards or the evaporative standards in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, must comply with all applicable Tier 2 exhaust standards or all evaporative standards, as applicable, described in this section.

(iii) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section, except as permitted in paragraph (k)(6)(vii) of this section, a manufacturer of LDV/LLDTs electing to use an alternate phase-in schedule for compliance with the Tier 2 exhaust standards or the evaporative standards in paragraph (e)(1) of this section must ensure that the sum of the percentages of vehicles from model years 2001 through 2004, meeting such exhaust or evaporative standards, as applicable, is at least 25%.

(iv) A manufacturer may elect an alternate phase-in schedule that results in 100% phase-in for HLDT/MDPVs by 2009. The requirements of paragraphs (k)(6)(i) through (k)(6)(ii) of this section apply, except that for HLDT/MDPVs, the calculation described in paragraphs (k)(6)(i) and (k)(6)(ii) of this section may cover model years 2001 through 2009 and must produce a sum of at least 150%.

(v) A manufacturer electing to use any alternate phase-in schedule permitted under this section must provide in its Application for Certification for the first year in which it intends to use such a schedule, and in each succeeding year during the phase-in, the intended phase-in percentages for that model year and the remaining phase-in years along with the intended final sum of those percentages as described in this paragraph (k)(6). This information may be included with the information required under § 86.1844-01(d)(13). In its year end annual reports, as required under § 86.1844-01(e)(4) the manufacturer must include sufficient information so that the Administrator can verify compliance with the alternative phase-in schedule established under paragraph (k)(6) of this section.

(vi) Under an alternate phase-in schedule, the projected phase-in percentage is not binding for a given model year, provided the sums of the actual phase-in percentages that occur meet the appropriate total sums as required in paragraph (k)(6) of this section, and provided that 100% actual compliance is reached for the appropriate model year, either 2007 or 2009, as described in paragraph (k)(6) of this section.

(vii) A manufacturer unable to meet the 25% requirement in paragraph (k)(6)(iii) of this section, must:

(A) Ensure that the sum of the percentages of vehicles for model years 2001 through 2004, meeting such exhaust or evaporative standards, as applicable, is at least 20%.

(B) Subtract that sum of percentages for model years 2001 through 2004 from 25%, and multiply the unrounded result by 2.

(C) Round the product from paragraph (k)(6)(vii)(B) of this section to the nearest 0.1% and add that to 50%. That sum becomes the required phase-in percentage for the 2005 model year.

(D) Comply with the phase-in percentage for the 2005 model year determined in paragraph (k)(6)(vii)(C) of this section.

(E) Comply with a minimum phase-in percentage for the 2006 model year determined by the following equation:

(7)(i) Sales percentages for the purpose of determining compliance with the phase-in of the Tier 2 requirements and the phase-in of the evaporative standards in paragraph (e)(1) of this section, must be based upon projected U.S. sales of LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs of the applicable model year by the manufacturer to the point of first sale. Such sales percentages must be rounded to the nearest one tenth of a percent, and must not include vehicles and trucks projected to be sold to points of first sale in California or a state that has adopted California requirements for that model year as permitted under section 177 of the Act.

(ii) Alternatively, the manufacturer may petition the Administrator to allow actual volume produced for U.S. sales to be used in lieu of projected U.S. sales for purposes of determining compliance with the phase-in percentage requirements under this section. The manufacturer must submit its petition within 30 days of the end of the model year to the Vehicle Programs and Compliance Division. For EPA to approve the use of actual volume produced for U.S. sales, the manufacturer must establish to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that actual production volume is functionally equivalent to actual sales volume of LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs sold in states other than California and states that have adopted California standards.

(iii) Manufacturers must submit information showing compliance with all phase-in requirements of this section with its Part I application as required by § 86.1844(d)(13).
