
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### FTP exhaust emission standards for interim non-Tier 2 HLDTs and interim non-Tier 2 MDPVs.

(2)(i) Except as permitted under paragraphs (l)(2) (vii) and (viii) of this section, HLDTs and MDPVs of model years 2004-2008 that are not used to meet the Tier 2 FTP phase-in requirements including the Tier 2 fleet average NOrequirement must comply with the full useful life FTP exhaust emission standards listed in Table S04-1 of paragraph (c) of this section and, the corresponding intermediate useful life standards, if any, in Table S04-2 of paragraph (c) of this section. Manufacturers may choose the bin of full useful life standards to which they certify a test group of vehicles, subject to the requirements in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Except as permitted under paragraphs (l)(2) (vii) and (viii) of this section, HLDTs and MDPVs of model years 2004-2008 that are not used to meet the Tier 2 FTP phase-in requirements including the Tier 2 fleet average NOrequirement must comply with the fleet average NOstandard described in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section subject to the phase-in schedule in paragraph (l)(2)(iv) of this section, i.e. 25 percent of the HLDT and MDPVs must meet the fleet average standard of 0.20 g/mi in 2004, 50 percent in 2005, and so on.

(iii) Manufacturers may choose the bin of full useful life standards and corresponding intermediate life standards to which they certify test groups of HLDTs and MDPVs, subject to the requirements in paragraph (l)(3)(ii) of this section. Manufacturers may include HLDT/MDPVs in the interim program that are not used to meet the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard or the phase-in percentage requirements in the Tier 2 program or to generate Tier 2 NOcredits. In a given model year, an individual vehicle may not be used to comply with both the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard and the applicable interim fleet average NOstandard although vehicles from the same test group may be separated and the vehicles counted toward compliance with either program.
