
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### FTP exhaust standards for interim non-Tier 2 vehicles,FTP exhaust emission standards for interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs.

(l)-(1)(i) LDV/LLDTs that are not used to meet the Tier 2 phase-in requirements including the Tier 2 fleet average NOrequirement during the Tier 2 phase-in period (model years 2004-2006) must comply with the full useful life FTP exhaust emission standards listed in Table S04-1 of paragraph (c) of this section and the corresponding intermediate useful life standards, if any, in Table S04-2 of paragraph (c) of this section. Manufacturers may choose the bin of full useful life standards to which they certify a test group of vehicles, subject to the requirements in paragraph (l)(3)(i) of this section. In a given model year, an individual vehicle may not be used to comply with both the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard and the applicable interim fleet average NOstandard although vehicles from the same test group may be separated and the vehicles counted toward compliance with either program.

(ii) The provisions of paragraphs (c) (1), (2) and (3) of this section apply to flexible-fueled, dual fuel and multi-fuel interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs.

(iii) Only manufacturers that comply with the applicable FTP standards in Tables S04-1 and 2 of paragraph (c) of this section for all of their 2004 model year HLDTs and declare their intention to comply with the 2004 model year 25% phase-in requirement to the 0.20 g/mi interim fleet average NOstandard for HLDTs (or HLDT/MDPVs) described in this paragraph (l) may use the optional higher NMOG values for interim LDT2s certified to bin 9 standards that are shown in Tables S04-1 and 2. Manufacturers must declare their intention to comply with the full 2004 model year 25% phase-in requirement in Part I of their HLDT or their HLDT/MDPV, as applicable, certification applications.

(iv) The provisions of paragraph (c)(4) of this section apply to interim non-Tier 2 vehicles.
