
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Fleet average NO,standards for interim non-Tier 2 LDV/Ts and MDPVs.

(3)(i) Manufacturers must comply with a fleet average full useful life NOstandard for their interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs, on an annual basis, of 0.30 grams per mile.

(ii) Manufacturers must comply with a fleet average full useful life NOstandard for their interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs, excluding those HLDTs and MDPVs not yet covered by the phase-in requirement described in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section, on an annual basis, of 0.20 grams per mile.

(iii) Manufacturers must determine their compliance with these interim fleet average NOstandards for each model year by separately computing the sales weighted average NOlevel of all interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs and all interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs (excluding those not yet phased in as described in paragraph (l)(2)(ii) of this section), using the methodology in ยง 86.1860.

(iv) Manufacturers may generate, bank, average, trade and use interim non-Tier 2 NOcredits based on their NOfleet average as determined under paragraph (l)(3)(iii) of this section. Unless waived or modified by the Administrator, the provisions of ยง 86.1861 of this part apply to the generation, banking, averaging, trading and use of credits generated by interim non-Tier 2 vehicles. NOcredits generated by interim non-Tier 2 vehicles are not subject to any discount except as required by ยง 86.1861-04(e).
