
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### In-use standards.

(p)(1) Table S04-10 of this paragraph (p) contains in-use emission standards applicable only to vehicles certified to the bins shown in the table. These standards apply to in-use testing performed by the manufacturer pursuant to regulations at §§ 86.1845-01, 86.1845-04 and 86.1846-01 and to in-use testing performed by EPA. These standards do not apply to certification or Selective Enforcement Auditing.

(2) These standards apply only to LDV/LLDTs produced up through the 2008 model year, and HLDT/MDPVs produced up through the 2010 model year. These standards are subject to other limitations described in paragraph (p)(3) of this section.

(3) For the first model year and also for the next model year after that, in which a test group of vehicles is certified to a bin of standards to which it has not previously been certified, the standards in Table S04-10 of this paragraph (p) apply for purposes of in-use testing only. The standards apply equally to all LDV/Ts and MDPVs subject to the model year limitation in paragraph (p)(2) of this section. Table S04-10 follows:

(4) For diesel vehicles certified to bin 10, separate in-use standards apply for NOand PM emissions. These standards are determined by multiplying the applicable NOand PM certification standards by factors of 1.2 and 1.35, respectively, and then rounding the result to one more decimal place than contained in the certification standard. The resultant standards do not apply for certification or selective enforcement auditing.

(5) For diesel vehicles certified to bin 7 and bin 8 only in model years 2007 through 2009, a manufacturer may optionally comply with the bin 5 FTP PM standard shown in Table S04-1. For diesel vehicles choosing this option, separate in-use NOstandards apply at high altitude conditions as defined in § 86.1803-01. These standards are determined by multiplying the applicable NOcertification standards by a factor of 1.2. The resultant standards apply only in-use at high altitude conditions and do not apply for certification or selective enforcement auditing. A manufacturer choosing this option must certify such vehicles to the applicable FTP NOand PM standards for a full useful life of 150,000 miles or 15 years, whichever occurs first. A manufacturer choosing this option would not be allowed to generate additional credits as described under § 86.1860-04 (g).
