
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-09 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Applicability.

(a)(1) This section contains regulations implementing emission standards for all LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs. This section applies to 2009 and later model year LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs fueled by gasoline, diesel, methanol, ethanol, natural gas and liquefied petroleum gas fuels, except as noted. Additionally, this section applies to hybrid electric vehicles (HEVs) and zero emission vehicles (ZEVs). Unless otherwise specified, multi-fueled vehicles must comply with all requirements established for each consumed fuel.

(2) through (4) [Reserved]. For guidance see ยง 86.1811-04.

(5) The exhaust emission standards and evaporative emission standards of this section apply equally to certification and in-use LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs, unless otherwise specified. See paragraph (t) of this section for interim evaporative emission in-use standards that are different than the certification evaporative emission standards specified in paragraph (e) of this section.

(b) through (d) [Reserved]. For guidance see ยง 86.1811-04.
