
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-04 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Hardship provision for small volume manufacturers.

(q)(1) A small volume manufacturer may apply for relief from any applicable final phase-in model year contained in this section. Relief will only be available to defer required compliance with a completely new set of standards, a fleet average NOstandard, and/or evaporative emission standard for 100% of affected vehicles for one model year. Thus, a small volume manufacturer that obtains relief may:

(i) Defer 100% compliance with the fleet average NOstandard for interim LDV/LLDTs (0.30 g/mi) until 2005;

(ii) Defer 100% compliance with the evaporative emission standards and/or fleet average NOstandard for Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs (0.07 g/mi) until 2008;

(iii) Defer 100% compliance with the requirements that interim HLDTs and MDPVs comply with applicable emission standards shown in Tables S04-1 and S04-2, until 2005;

(iv) Defer 100% compliance with the fleet average NOstandard for interim HLDT/MDPVs (0.20 g/mi) until 2008; and

(v) Defer 100% compliance with the evaporative emission standards and/or fleet average NOstandard for Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs (0.07 g/mi) until 2010.

(vi) Defer compliance with the LDV/LLDT evaporative emissions standards in Table S09-1 of § 86.1811-09(e) until 2013, and defer 100% compliance with the LDV/LLDT evaporative emissions standards in Table S09-2 of § 86.1811-09(e) until 2016. (The hardship relief may be extended one additional model year-two model years total.)

(vii) Defer compliance with the HLDT/MDPV evaporative emissions standards in Table S09-1 of § 86.1811-09(e) until 2014, and defer 100% compliance with the HLDT/MDPV evaporative emissions standards in Table S09-2 of § 86.1811-09(e) until 2016. (The hardship relief may be extended one additional model year-two model years total.)

(viii) Defer 100% compliance with the LDV/LLDT cold temperature NMHC standards in Table S10-X of § 86.1811-10(g) until 2015. (The hardship relief may be extended one additional model year-two model years total.)

(ix) Defer 100% compliance with the HLDT/MDPV cold temperature NMHC standards in Table S10-X of § 86.1811-10(g) until 2017. (The hardship relief may be extended one additional model year-two model years total.)

(2) Applications for relief must be in writing and must:

(i) Be submitted before the earliest date of noncompliance;

(ii) Include evidence that the manufacturer will incur severe economic hardship if relief is not granted;

(iii) Include evidence that the noncompliance will occur despite the best efforts of the manufacturer to comply; and

(iv) Include evidence that the manufacturer has made every reasonable effort to purchase credits to address the noncompliance, where applicable.
