
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-09 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Diurnal-plus-hot soak evaporative hydrocarbon standards.

(1)(i) Hydrocarbons for LDV/LLDTs, HLDTs and MDPVs that are gasoline-fueled, dedicated natural gas-fueled, dedicated liquefied petroleum gas-fueled, dedicated ethanol-fueled, dedicated methanol-fueled and multi-fueled vehicles when operating on gasoline must not exceed the diurnal plus hot soak standards shown in Table S09-1 for the full three diurnal test sequence and for the supplemental two diurnal test sequence. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles, except as otherwise specified in paragraph (t) of this section. Table S09-1 follows:

(ii) Hydrocarbons for LDV/LLDTs, HLDTs and MDPVs that are multi-fueled vehicles operating on non-gasoline fuel must not exceed the diurnal plus hot soak standards shown in Table S09-2 for the full three diurnal test sequence and for the supplemental two diurnal test sequence. The standards apply equally to certification and in-use vehicles except as otherwise specified in paragraph (t) of this section. Table S09-2 follows:

(iii) For multi-fueled vehicles operating on non-gasoline fuel, manufacturers must comply with the phase-in requirements in Table S09-3 of this paragraph for the evaporative emission requirements specified in Table S09-2 of this section. Phase-in schedules are grouped together for LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs. These requirements specify the minimum percentage of the manufacturer's LDV/LLDT/HLDT/MDPV 50-State sales, by model year, that must meet the requirements for their full useful lives. Table S09-3 follows:

(2) through (6) [Reserved]. For guidance see ยง 86.1811-04.

(7) In cases where vehicles are certified to evaporative emission standards in Tables S09-1 and S09-2 of this section, the Administrator may accept evaporative emissions data for low altitude testing in accordance with California test conditions and test procedures (in lieu of the evaporative emission test condition and test procedure requirements of subpart B of this part).

(f) through (s) [Reserved]. For guidance see ยง 86.1811-04.
