
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-10 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Cold temperature NMHC standards.

(2)Full useful life fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards are applicable only to gasoline fueled LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs, and apply equally to certification and in-use except as otherwise specified in paragraph (u) of this section for in-use standards for applicable phase-in models. Testing with other fuels such as E85, or testing on diesel vehicles, is not required. Multi-fuel, bi-fuel or dual-fuel vehicles must comply with requirements using gasoline only. For LDV/LLDTs, the useful life is 120,000 miles or 10 years, whichever comes first. For HLDT/MDPVs, the useful life is 120,000 miles or 11 years, whichever comes first. There is not an intermediate useful life standard for cold temperature NMHC standards.

(i) The standards are shown in the following table:

(ii) The manufacturer must calculate its fleet average cold temperature NMHC emission level(s) as described in ยง 86.1864-10(m).

(iii) During a phase-in year, the manufacturer must comply with the fleet average standards for the required phase-in percentage for that year as specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section, or for the alternate phase-in percentage as permitted under paragraph (g)(4) of this section.

(iv) For model years prior to 2010 (LDV/LLDTs) and 2012 (HLDT/MDPVs), where the manufacturer desires to bank early NMHC credits as permitted under ยง 86.1864-10(o)(5), the manufacturer must achieve a fleet average standard below the applicable standard. Manufacturers must determine compliance with the cold temperature NMHC fleet average standard according to ยง 86.1864-10(o).
