
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-10 Emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Alternate phase-in schedules for cold temperature NMHC standards.

(4)(i) Manufacturers may apply for alternate phase-in schedules that would still result in 100% phase-in by 2013 and 2015, respectively, for LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs. An alternate phase-in schedule submitted by a manufacturer is subject to EPA approval. The alternate phase-in will not be used to delay full implementation past the last year of the primary phase-in schedule (2013 for LDV/LLDTs, 2015 for HLDT/MDPVs). An alternate phase-in schedule will be acceptable if it satisfies the following conditions (where API = Anticipated Phase-In percentage for the referenced model year):

LDV/LLDTs:

HLDT/MDPVs:

or

(ii)(A) For LDV/LLDTs, if the sum of products in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section is greater than or equal to 500%, which is the sum of products from the primary phase-in schedule (4 x 25% + 3 x 50% + 2 x 75% + 1 x 100% = 500%), then the alternate phase-in schedule is acceptable, except as prohibited in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) and (iii) of this section. In addition, manufacturers electing to use an alternate phase-in schedule for compliance with the cold temperature NMHC exhaust emission standards must ensure that the sum of products is at least 100% for model years 2010 and earlier for LDV/LLDTs. For example, a phase-in schedule for LDV/LLDTs of 5/10/10/45/80/100 that begins in 2008 would calculate as (6 x 5%) + (5 x 10%) + (4 x 10%) = 120% and would be acceptable for 2008-2010. The full phase-in would calculate as (6 x 5%) + (5 x 10%) + (4 x 10%) + (3 x 45%) + (2 x 80%) + (1 x 100%) = 515% and would be acceptable for 2008-2013.

(B) For HLDT/MDPVs, if the sum of products in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section is greater than or equal to 500%, which is the sum of products from the primary phase-in schedule (4 x 25% + 3 x 50% + 2 x 75% + 1 x 100% = 500%), then the alternate phase-in schedule is acceptable, except as prohibited in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) and (iii) of this section. In addition, manufacturers electing to use an alternate phase-in schedule for compliance with the cold temperature NMHC exhaust emission standards must ensure that the sum of products is at least 100% for model years 2012 and earlier for HLDT/MDPVs. Alternately, if the sum of products is greater than or equal to 600%, then the alternate phase-in schedule is acceptable, except as prohibited in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) and (iii) of this section. If the sum of products is greater than or equal to 600%, then there are no requirements on the sum of products for model years 2012 and earlier.

(iii) Under an alternate phase-in schedule, the projected phase-in percentage is not binding for a given model year, provided the sums of the actual phase-in percentages that occur meet the appropriate total sums as required in the equations of paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section, and provided that 100% actual compliance is reached for the appropriate model year, either 2013 for LDV/LLDTs or 2015 for HLDT/MDPVs.

(5) Manufacturers must determine compliance with required phase-in schedules as follows:

(i) Manufacturers must submit information showing compliance with all phase-in requirements of this section with their Part I applications as required by § 86.1844(d)(13).

(ii) A manufacturer electing to use any alternate phase-in schedule permitted under this section must provide in its Application for Certification for the first year in which it intends to use such a schedule, and in each succeeding year during the phase-in, the intended phase-in percentages for that model year and the remaining phase-in years along with the intended final sum of those percentages as described in paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section. This information may be included with the information required under § 86.1844-01(d)(13). In its year end annual reports, as required under § 86.1844-01(e)(4), the manufacturer must include sufficient information so that the Administrator can verify compliance with the alternate phase-in schedule established under paragraph (g)(4)(i) of this section.

(6)(i) Sales percentages for the purpose of determining compliance with the phase-in of the cold temperature NMHC requirements must be based upon projected 50-State sales of LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs of the applicable model year by the manufacturer to the point of first sale. Such sales percentages must be rounded to the nearest 0.1 percent.

(ii) Alternatively, the manufacturer may petition the Administrator to allow actual volume produced for U.S. sales to be used in lieu of projected U.S. sales for purposes of determining compliance with the phase-in percentage requirements under this section. The manufacturer must submit its petition within 30 days of the end of the model year. For EPA to approve the use of actual volume produced for U.S. sales, the manufacturer must establish to the satisfaction of the Administrator, that actual production volume is functionally equivalent to actual sales volume of LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs sold in all 50 U.S. States.

(h) through (s) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-04.

(t) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1811-09.
