
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-17 Exhaust emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### SFTP phase-in.

(ii)The fleet-average SFTP emission standard for NMOG + NOphases in over several years as described in this paragraph (b)(8)(ii). You must identify FELs as described in paragraph (b)(5) of this section and calculate a fleet-average emission level to show that you meet the SFTP emission standard for NMOG + NOthat applies for each model year.

(A) Calculate the fleet-average emission level together for all your light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, except for those certified using the provisions of paragraph (b)(8)(ii)(C) of this section. For model year 2017, do not include vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR (in the numerator or denominator).

(B) Fleet-average SFTP emission standards decrease through the phase-in period as shown in the following table:

(C) You may use the SFTP stand-alone option specified in 13 CCR 1961.2 (a)(7)(A)1 of the LEV III program to demonstrate compliance with EPA's SFTP standards. Do not include any such test groups when demonstrating compliance with the phased-in fleet-average SFTP standards specified in this paragraph (b)(8)(ii). Note that this option is not available for vehicles certified to the transitional bins described in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this section.
