
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1811-17 Exhaust emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Interim provisions.

(iii)(A) For vehicles certified to bins higher than Bin 70 under this section through model year 2019, the Tier 2 useful life period applies as specified in § 86.1805-12 for all criteria pollutants other than PM. However, LDV and LDT1 test groups certified to bin standards above Bin 70 through model year 2019 may be included in the same averaging set with vehicles meeting standards over a 150,000 mile useful life, notwithstanding the provisions of § 86.1861-17(b)(1)(iii). Any such vehicles you include in the averaging set for 150,000 mile useful life are also subject to the fleet-average NMOG + NOstandard specified for 150,000 mile useful life; similarly, any such vehicles you include in the averaging set for 120,000 mile useful life are also subject to the fleet-average NMOG + NOstandard specified for 120,000 mile useful life.

(B) You may use the E0 test fuel specified in § 86.113 through model year 2019 for gasoline-fueled vehicles certified to bins higher than Bin 70. You may not certify these vehicles using carryover data after model year 2019.

(C) Vehicles must comply with the Tier 2 SFTP emission standards for NMHC + NOand CO for 4,000-mile testing that are specified in § 86.1811-04(f)(1) if they are certified to transitional Bin 85 or Bin 110 standards, or if they are certified based on a fuel without ethanol, or if they are not certified to the Tier 3 p.m. standard. Note that the standards in this paragraph (b)(8)(iii)(C) apply under this section for alternative fueled vehicles, for flexible fueled vehicles when operated on a fuel other than gasoline or diesel fuel, and for MDPVs, even though these vehicles were not subject to the SFTP standards in the Tier 2 program.

(iv) You may use the alternative phase-in provisions described in paragraph (b)(9) of this section to transition to the Tier 3 exhaust emission standards on a different schedule.

(9) This paragraph (b)(9) describes an alternative approach to phasing in the Tier 3 emission standards for vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR. If you choose this approach, you must phase in the Tier 3 standards for all your vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR that are subject to this section according to this schedule. Under this alternative phase-in, you must meet the fully phased-in standards specified in this paragraph (b) with 40, 70, and 100 percent of your projected nationwide sales of all vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR that are subject to this section in model years 2019 through 2021, respectively. Any vehicles not subject to Tier 3 standards during the phase-in period must continue to comply with the Tier 2 standards in § 86.1811-04(c) and (f), including the Tier 2 SFTP emission standards for NMHC + NOand CO for 4,000-mile testing as specified in § 86.1811-04(f)(1). Vehicles subject to Tier 2 standards under this paragraph (b)(9) are subject to the useful life provisions in § 86.1805-12 relative to exhaust emission standards. Each vehicle counting toward the phase-in percentage under this paragraph (b)(9) must meet all the standards that apply throughout the useful life as specified in § 86.1805-17, and must use the Tier 3 test fuel specified in § 86.113-15. The following exceptions and special provisions apply under this paragraph (b)(9):

(i) For model year 2019, you may exclude from the phase-in calculation any test groups with vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR that have a Job 1 date on or before March 3, 2018 (see 40 CFR 85.2304).

(ii) The FTP and SFTP emission standards for NMOG + NOare fleet-average standards. Calculate your fleet-average values based on all the vehicles that are subject to the standard in a given year. You may not generate credits for banking or trading in model years 2019 or 2020, and you may not use banked or traded credits to demonstrate compliance with the standards in those years.

(iii) The US06 emission standard for PM is 0.010 g/mile in model years 2019 through 2021, and 0.006 g/mile starting in model year 2022. The other standards described in this paragraph (b)(9) apply to all your vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR in model years 2022 through 2024.

(10) You may not use credits generated from Tier 2 vehicles for demonstrating compliance with the Tier 3 standards except as specified in this paragraph (b)(10). You may generate early credits with U.S. sales of Tier 2 vehicles in the two model years before the Tier 3 standards start to apply for a given vehicle model. Vehicles certified to the Tier 2 standards must meet all the Tier 2 requirements in § 86.1811-10, including the fleet-average Tier 2 standards. Calculate early Tier 3 emission credits as described in § 86.1861 by subtracting the appropriate Tier 2 fleet-average value for FTP emissions of NMOG + NOfrom 0.160 g/mile. Calculate your fleet-average value for the model year based on vehicles at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR in 2015, on all sizes of vehicles in 2016, and on vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR in 2017. You may use these early credits as described in § 86.1861 for demonstrating compliance with the FTP emission standard for NMOG + NOstarting in model year 2017. You may use these early credits interchangeably for vehicles certified based on a useful life of either 120,000 or 150,000 miles. For model years 2018 and later, you may use any remaining early credits for banking or trading subject to a limitation based on credits generated in California, as follows:

(i) For the applicable model years in which you generate emission credits relative to California's LEV III fleet-average NMOG + NOstandard, determine the actual California sales of light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks and the actual nationwide sales of those same vehicles. (Note: If you have a credit deficit in a given model year for your LEV III vehicles, apply the provisions of this paragraph (b)(10)(i) based on the appropriate negative credit quantity.) In 2015, count sales only from vehicle models at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR. For each model year, multiply the credits generated under the California program by the ratio of nationwide vehicle sales to LEV III vehicle sales to calculate an effective nationwide quantity. Sum these results for model years 2015 through 2017. Note that this calculation results in a maximum credit quantity based on vehicle sales in all states, even though the initial credit calculation does not include vehicle sales in California or the section 177 states. If you comply with the LEV III standards based on pooled emission credits for California and the section 177 states, use those pooled emission credits and corresponding sales for calculating the maximum credit quantity under this paragraph (b)(10)(i).

(ii) You may not use more early credits generated under this paragraph (b)(10) for banking or trading to demonstrate compliance with Tier 3 emission standards than the calculated value of the effective nationwide credit quantity summed in paragraph (b)(10)(i) of this section. If your generated credits are greater than this threshold, determine the ratio by which your generated early credits exceed the threshold. Calculate an adjusted quantity of early credits generated under this paragraph (b)(10) by dividing the generated credit quantity from each model year by this ratio of generated credits relative to the applicable threshold. This adjusted quantity of credits may be used for banking or trading relative to the Tier 3 standards, subject to the five-year credit life described in § 86.1861.

(11) You may certify vehicles to the Tier 3 standards starting in model year 2015. To do this, you may either sell all your LEV III vehicle models nationwide, or you may certify a subset of your fleet to alternate fleet-average emission standards as follows:

(i) The alternate fleet-average FTP emission standards for NMOG + NOare 0.100 g/mile in 2015 and 0.093 g/mile in 2016 for LDV and LDT1.

(ii) The alternate fleet-average FTP emission standards for NMOG + NOare 0.119 g/mile in 2015, 0.110 g/mile in 2016, and 0.101 g/mile in 2017 for LDT2 and HLDT.

(iii) The alternate fleet-average SFTP emission standards for NMOG + NOare 0.140 in 2015 for all vehicles, 0.110 in 2016 for all vehicles, and 0.103 in 2017 for LDT2 and HLDT.

(iv) The vehicles must meet FTP and SFTP standards for PM as specified in § 86.1811-04. The PM testing provisions of § 86.1829-01(b)(1)(iii)(B) apply for these vehicles.

(v) Vehicles not certified to the Tier 3 standards in a given model year must meet all the requirements that apply for Tier 2 vehicles in that model year.

(vi) For cold temperature testing and for high-altitude testing, you may use the E0 fuel specified in § 86.113-04(a) or § 86.213 instead of the E10 test fuel specified in § 86.113-15.

(vii) Vehicles certified under this paragraph (b)(11) to a bin standard at or below Bin 70 must be certified to a useful life of 150,000 miles.

(viii) The interim provisions described in paragraph (b)(8)(iii) of this section apply for vehicles certified under this paragraph (b)(11), except that credits generated under this paragraph (b)(11) may be used interchangeably for vehicles certified based on a useful life of either 120,000 or 150,000 miles.

(ix) For vehicles certified under this paragraph (b)(11), you may generate emission credits and use those credits for demonstrating compliance with Tier 3 standards as described in paragraph (b)(10) of this section or as described in § 86.1861.

(12) The following alternate standards apply for in-use testing:

(i) Alternate in-use FTP standards for NMOG + NOapply for 2021 and earlier model year vehicles certified to Bin 70 and lower. Calculate these alternate standards by multiplying the applicable FEL by 1.4. These alternate standards apply only for testing at low-altitude conditions.

(ii) The alternate in-use FTP standard for PM is 0.006 g/mile for 2021 and earlier model year vehicles.

(iii) The in-use US06 standard for PM is 0.010 g/mile for 2023 and earlier model year vehicles.

(13) Keep records as needed to show that you meet the requirements specified in this paragraph (b) for phasing in standards and for complying with declining fleet-average average standards.

(14) This subpart describes several ways that the transition to Final Tier 3 standards applies differently for vehicles above and below 6,000 pounds GVWR. All these distinctions apply only for LDT. LDV as a category is defined independent of GVWR, so any LDV above 6,000 pounds GVWR are subject to the same provisions that apply for LDV at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR. Where this section refers to "vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR," this should be understood to include LDT above 6,000 pounds GVWR and MDPV (or HLDT and MDPV), and to exclude all LDV.
