
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1813-17 Evaporative and refueling emission standards.
####### Tier 3 evaporative emission standards.

(a)Vehicles may not exceed the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards, as follows:

(1) Measure emissions using the test procedures of subpart B of this part, as follows:

(i) Follow the vehicle preconditioning and exhaust testing procedures as described in subpart B of this part.

(ii) Measure diurnal, running loss, and hot soak emissions as shown in § 86.130. This includes separate measurements for the two-diurnal test sequence and the three-diurnal test sequence; however, gaseous-fueled vehicles are not subject to any evaporative emission standards using the two-diurnal test sequence.

(iii) For gasoline-fueled vehicles, use E10 test fuel as required in § 86.113, except as specified in this section.

(iv) Emissions are generally measured with a flame ionization detector (FID). In the case of rig, diurnal, hot soak, and running loss testing with E10 test fuel, multiply measured (unspeciated) FID values by 1.08 to account for the FID's reduced response to ethanol. However, you may instead determine total hydrocarbon equivalent for E10 testing based on speciated measurements as described in § 86.143-96(c). You may use different methods (with or without speciation) for different test elements for a given test vehicle; however, you must always use the same method for diurnal and hot soak testing. In addition, any later testing with vehicles from that evaporative/refueling family must use the same method that was used for the original testing. Similarly, any evaporative/refueling families certified in later model years using carryover data must use the same method that was used for the original testing. We may do testing with or without speciation, but we will apply the 1.08 correction factor to unspeciated measurements for any of these four categories of evaporative emissions only if you also use it to determine your final test results.

(2) Diurnal and hot soak emissions may not exceed the Tier 3 emission standards, as follows:

(i) The emission standard for the sum of diurnal and hot soak measurements from the two-diurnal test sequence and the three-diurnal test sequence is based on a fleet average in a given model year. You must specify a family emission limit (FEL) for each evaporative family. The FEL serves as the emission standard for the evaporative family with respect to all required diurnal and hot soak testing. Calculate your fleet-average emission level as described in § 86.1860 based on the FEL that applies for low-altitude testing to show that you meet the specified standard. For multi-fueled vehicles, calculate fleet-average emission levels based only on emission levels for testing with gasoline. You may generate emission credits for banking and trading and you may use banked or traded credits for demonstrating compliance with the diurnal plus hot soak emission standard for vehicles required to meet the Tier 3 standards, other than gaseous-fueled vehicles, as described in § 86.1861 starting in model year 2017. You comply with the emission standard for a given model year if you have enough credits to show that your fleet-average emission level is at or below the applicable standard. You may exchange credits between or among evaporative families within an averaging set as described in § 86.1861. Separate diurnal plus hot soak emission standards apply for each evaporative/refueling emission family as shown for high-altitude conditions. The sum of diurnal and hot soak measurements may not exceed the following Tier 3 standards:

(ii) Specify FELs as follows:

(A) You may specify the low-altitude FEL in increments of 0.025 g above or below the otherwise applicable Tier 3 diurnal plus hot soak standard, up to the maximum values specified in the following table:

(B) Calculate the FEL for testing at high-altitude conditions based on the difference between the low-altitude FEL and the standard. For example, if a light-duty vehicle was certified with an FEL of 0.400 g instead of the 0.300 g standard, the FEL for testing under high-altitude conditions would be 0.75 g (0.65 + 0.10).

(iii) Hydrocarbon emissions must not exceed 0.020 g for LDV and LDT and 0.030 g for HDV when tested using the Bleed Emission Test Procedure adopted by the California Air Resources Board as part of the LEV III program. This procedure quantifies diurnal emissions using the two-diurnal test sequence without measuring hot soak emissions. For heavy-duty vehicles with a nominal fuel tank capacity at or above 50 gallons, operate the vehicle over a second full FTP cycle before measuring diurnal emissions. The standards in this paragraph (a)(2)(iii) do not apply for testing at high-altitude conditions. For vehicles with non-integrated refueling canisters, the bleed emission test and standard do not apply to the refueling canister. You may perform the Bleed Emission Test Procedure using the analogous test temperatures and the E10 test fuel specified in subpart B of this part.

(3) Running losses may not exceed 0.05 g per mile when measured using the test procedures specified in § 86.134. This standard does not apply for gaseous-fueled vehicles.

(4) Fuel systems for vehicles operating on one or more volatile liquid fuels may not exceed an effective leak diameter of 0.02 inches when measured using the procedure specified in 40 CFR 1066.985. For vehicles with fuel tanks exceeding 25 gallons nominal fuel tank capacity, you may request our approval for a leak standard greater than 0.020 inches, up to a maximum value of 0.040 inches.

(5) The Tier 3 evaporative emission standards start to phase in with model year 2017 for vehicles at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR and with model year 2018 for vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR. Table 3 of this section specifies the minimum percentage of each manufacturer's sales in each model year that must be certified to the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards. Calculate annual percentages based on actual nationwide sales of all vehicles subject to standards under this paragraph (a) for the applicable model year; however, if all your FELs for Tier 3 evaporative families are at the applicable standard (neither generating nor using emission credits), the phase-in requirements are based on projected sales. Also, if you certify vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR to the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards in model year 2017, you may count projected U.S. sales of those vehicles toward your calculation for meeting the 40 percent requirement in 2017 (numerator only). Manufacturers may meet this requirement using the additional alternative phase-in provisions in paragraph (g) of this section. Vehicles from the identified model years not certified to the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards continue to be subject to the evaporative emission standards specified in § 86.1811-09(e) or § 86.1816-08(d), including the useful life provisions of § 86.1805-12. Note that this subjects LDV and LDT1 to a 150,000 mile useful life for evaporative emissions if the vehicles are subject to a 150,000 mile useful life for exhaust emissions. Keep records as needed to show that you meet the phase-in requirements specified in this section. See paragraph (g) of this section for additional provisions that apply for model year 2017 and the rest of the phase-in.

(6) For model year 2017, exclude vehicle sales from California and section 177 states from the calculation to demonstrate compliance with the phase-in schedule in paragraph (a)(5) or (g) of this section, and from the credit calculation in § 86.1860.
