
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1811-17 Exhaust emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Small-volume manufacturers.

(h)Small-volume manufacturers may use the following Tier 3 phase-in provisions:

(1) Instead of the fleet-average FTP standards for NMOG + NOspecified in this section, small-volume manufacturers may meet alternate fleet-average standards of 0.125 g/mile through model year 2021, and 0.051 g/mile for model years 2022 through 2027. The following additional provisions apply for vehicles certified under this paragraph (h)(1):

(i) Vehicles are subject to exhaust emission standards over the useful life as specified in ยง 86.1805-12 through model year 2021, and as specified in this section starting in model year 2022.

(ii) Gasoline-fueled vehicles may use the E0 test fuel specified in ยง 86.113-04 for vehicles certified to bins higher than Bin 70 through model year 2021.

(iii) Vehicles certified under this paragraph (h)(1) may generate emission credits and they may use banked or traded emission credits relative to the alternate fleet-average FTP standard for NMOG + NOonly in model years 2022 through 2027.

(iv) Vehicles are subject to all the other requirements specified in this section.

(2) Small-volume manufacturers may delay complying with all the requirements of this section until model year 2022, and instead meet all the requirements that apply to Tier 2 vehicles under ยง 86.1811-10 for 2021 and earlier model years.

(3) If meeting the Tier 3 standards would cause severe economic hardship, small-volume manufacturers may ask us to approve an extended compliance deadline under the provisions of 40 CFR 1068.250, except that the solvency criterion does not apply and there is no maximum duration of the hardship relief.
