
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1813-17 Evaporative and refueling emission standards.
####### Refueling emissions.

(b)Light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and heavy-duty vehicles must meet the refueling emission standards in this paragraph (b) as follows when measured over the procedure specified in ยง 86.150:

(1) The following implementation dates apply for incomplete vehicles:

(i) Refueling standards apply starting with model year 2027 for incomplete vehicles certified under 40 CFR part 1037, unless the manufacturer complies with the alternate phase-in specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section. If you do not meet the alternative phase-in requirement for model year 2026, you must certify all your incomplete heavy-duty vehicles above 14,000 pounds GVWR to the refueling standard in model year 2027.

(ii) Refueling standards are optional for incomplete heavy-duty vehicles at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR, unless the manufacturer uses the alternate phase-in specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section to meet standards together for heavy-duty vehicles above and below 14,000 pounds GVWR.

(iii) Manufacturers may comply with an alternate phase-in of the refueling standard for incomplete heavy-duty vehicles as described in this paragraph (b)(1)(iii). Manufacturers must meet the refueling standard during the phase-in based on their projected nationwide production volume of all incomplete heavy-duty vehicles subject to standards under this subpart and under 40 CFR part 1037 as described in Table 4 of this section. Keep records as needed to show that you meet phase-in requirements.

(2) The following refueling standards apply:

(i) 0.20 g THCE per gallon of fuel dispensed for vehicles using volatile liquid fuels. This standard also applies for diesel-fueled LDV.

(ii) 0.15 g THC per gallon of fuel dispensed for liquefied petroleum gas-fueled vehicles and natural gas-fueled vehicles.
