
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1813-17 Evaporative and refueling emission standards.
####### Alternative phase-in options for Tier 3 evaporative emission standards.

(g)You may use any of the following alternative methods to transition to the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards:

(1) Starting in model year 2015, you may earn an "allowance" for each vehicle that you certify early under this paragraph (g)(1). For each allowance you earn, you may count it as one compliant vehicle in a later model year during the phase-in period. Calculate the total phase-in percentage in each model year by adding the allowances to the number of compliant vehicles (in the numerator), without increasing total sales (in the denominator). For each allowance you earn, you may alternatively count it as one compliant vehicle under the phase-in schedule described in paragraph (g)(5) of this section, except that you may not use those allowances to increase the value of the phase-in index from any model year by more than 10 percentage points. Vehicles earning allowances under this paragraph (g)(1) may not have an FEL above the applicable Tier 3 standard, and may not generate emission credits for banking or trading. Allowances may not be traded to another company. You may earn allowances under this paragraph (g)(1) for early-compliant vehicles as follows:

(i) Model year 2015 and 2016 vehicles at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR meeting the Tier 3 standards in paragraph (a) of this section or the equivalent California standards as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section earn allowances, as long as the vehicles are not sold in California or any of the section 177 states.

(ii) Model year 2015 through 2017 LDV and LDT above 6,000 pounds GVWR meeting the Tier 3 standards in paragraph (a) of this section or the equivalent California standards as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section earn allowances, as long as the vehicles are not sold in California or any of the section 177 states.

(iii) Model year 2015 through 2017 MDPV and HDV meeting the Tier 3 standards in paragraph (a) of this section or the equivalent California standards as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section earn allowances for vehicles sold in any state.

(iv) To the extent that you over-comply with the 40-percent phase-in requirement in model year 2017, you may count your actual U.S. sales exceeding the required number of Tier 3 vehicles as allowances toward meeting the phase-in requirement in 2018 and later model years.

(v) For HDV above 10,000 pounds GVWR and at or below 14,000 pounds GVWR that you certify to the refueling emission standards in paragraph (b) of this section in model years 2015 through 2017 and sell outside of California and the section 177 states, a single vehicle may produce two allowances if it is certified to the Tier 3 diurnal plus hot soak standard. Allowances earned under this paragraph (g)(1)(v) may alternatively be used in model years 2018 through 2022 to phase in the refueling standard, except that a single early-compliant vehicle produces only a single allowance.

(vi) Complete HDV above 14,000 pounds GVWR and all sizes of incomplete HDV earn allowances as described in paragraph (g)(1)(v) of this section if they are certified to the refueling emission standards in paragraph (b) of this section in model years 2015 through 2021.

(2) The following alternative phase-in options apply for model year 2017:

(i) You may disregard the percentage phase-in specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section for 2017 if you choose 50-state certification for all your vehicles meeting the LEV III PZEV evaporative standards in 2017. Under this option, you may not produce a higher-emitting version of those vehicle models for sale outside of California or the section 177 states. Such vehicles may be certified using carryover data under the California program, but they may not generate or use emission credits. LDV and LDT1 that comply under this paragraph (g)(2)(i) may not generate allowances under paragraph (g)(1) of this section, regardless of the calculated percentage of compliant vehicles in model year 2017.

(ii) You may comply with the phase-in requirement for model year 2017 by meeting the Tier 3 emission standards for diurnal plus hot soak, running loss, and bleed emissions (or the equivalent set of California standards as allowed in this section) with 20 percent of vehicles at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR, and by meeting the leak standard in paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section with 20 percent of vehicles at or below 6,000 pounds GVWR. You may optionally include vehicles above 6,000 pounds GVWR under this paragraph (g)(2)(ii) to calculate the percentage (numerator only) if they meet the leak and/or evaporative emission standards in model year 2017. Vehicles complying with Tier 3 evaporative emission standards may generate or use emission credits relative to the diurnal plus hot soak standard as specified in this section, but they may not generate allowances. You may apply this option and use the alternative phase-in calculation in paragraph (g)(4) of this section, subject to the following conditions:

(A) You must meet or exceed the 20 percent threshold for both evaporative emissions and the leak standard.

(B) All the vehicles meeting the leak standard must also meet the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards and the OBD requirements in § 86.1806-17(b)(1).

(C) Determine the appropriate percentage for calculating compliance under paragraph (g)(4) of this section by adding 20 to the percentage of vehicles meeting the Tier 3 evaporative emission standards to account for vehicles meeting the leak standard. Do not increase the percentage based on meeting the leak standard with more than 20 percent of your vehicles in model year 2017.

(3) If you certify model year 2021 or earlier vehicles to the LEV III evaporative emission standards in California, you may certify those as Tier 3 vehicles that count toward meeting the phase-in requirements of this section. Such vehicles must still be certified to the high-altitude standards in paragraph (a)(2) of this section and the leak standard specified in paragraph (a)(4) of this section. You may not certify vehicles under this paragraph (g)(3) after model year 2021. Vehicles meeting the LEV III standards may also generate allowances under paragraph (g)(1) of this section; however, these vehicles may generate or use emission credits under this subpart only if they are not used to generate allowances and if they are certified using the Option 2 procedures under the LEV III program (including the bleed emission test). Vehicles may be certified under this paragraph (g)(3) based on the rig test ("Option 1") if they are certified to LEV III standards based on the rig test before model year 2017; this certification option applies through model year 2021. Include these Option 1 vehicles in the calculation of fleet average emissions by using the appropriate Tier 3 emission standard as the FEL. Note that the rig test is considered a diurnal test with respect to the provisions to account for ethanol emissions as described in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section.

(4) If you fall short of the phase-in percentage specifications in paragraph (a)(5) of this section, you may designate the requisite number of Tier 2 vehicles as Tier 3 vehicles for purposes of demonstrating compliance with the Tier 3 standards in this section. To do this, factor those Tier 2 vehicles into the Tier 3 fleet-average emission calculation using an FEL that is equal to the applicable diurnal plus hot soak standard from the two-day test sequence. The Tier 3 emission standards do not apply to these Tier 2 vehicles. In addition, you may disregard the phase-in percentages specified in paragraph (a)(5) of this section if you instead comply based on one of the following alternative measures:

(i) You may comply with an alternate phase-in schedule described in this paragraph (g)(4)(i). To do this, you must give us a detailed plan for describing how you will meet the alternate phase-in schedule. You comply with the alternate phase-in schedule by calculating an evaporative phase-in index using the following equation that is at or above 1,280 for model years 2017 through 2022 (or 1,040 for model years 2018 through 2022 if you use the provisions of paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section):

(ii) You may comply with an alternate phase-in schedule described in this paragraph (g)(4)(ii). To do this, you must give us a detailed plan for describing how you will meet the alternate phase-in schedule. You comply with the alternate phase-in schedule by calculating an evaporative phase-in index using the following equation that is at or above 420 for model years 2017 through 2022 (or 380 for model years 2018 through 2022 if you use the provisions of paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section):

(5) This paragraph (g)(5) describes an alternative approach to phasing in the evaporative and refueling emission standards for gaseous-fueled vehicles above 8,500 pounds GVWR. Under this alternative phase-in, you may disregard the requirements of this section related to evaporative emission standards that apply for these vehicles before model year 2019. Similarly, you may disregard the refueling emission standards of this section before model year 2019 for vehicles above 10,000 pounds GVWR. For model year 2019, you may exclude from the phase-in calculation any evaporative families with vehicles that have a Job 1 date on or before March 3, 2018 (see 40 CFR 85.2304). Any vehicles not subject to Tier 3 evaporative emission standards during this phase-in period must continue to comply with the evaporative emission standards in § 86.1816-08(d); such vehicles are subject to the useful life provisions in § 86.1805-12 relative to evaporative emission standards. Each vehicle counting toward the phase-in percentage under this paragraph (g)(5) must meet all the standards that apply throughout the useful life as specified in § 86.1805-17.
