
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1816-08 Emission standards for complete heavy-duty vehicles.
####### Phase-in options.

(i)(1)(i) For model year 2008, manufacturers may certify some of their test groups to the standards applicable to model year 2008 vehicles under ยง 86.1816-05, in lieu of the exhaust standards specified in this section. These vehicles must comply with all other requirements applicable to model year 2007 vehicles. The combined number of vehicles in the test groups certified to the 2008 standards may not exceed 50 percent of the manufacturer's U.S. heavy-duty vehicle sales of complete heavy-duty Otto-cycle motor vehicles for model year 2008, except as explicitly allowed by paragraph (i)(2) of this section.

(ii) For model year 2008, manufacturers may certify some of their test groups to the evaporative standards applicable to model year 2007 engines under ยง 86.1816-05, in lieu of the evaporative standards specified in this section. These vehicles must comply with all other requirements applicable to model year 2008 vehicles, except as allowed by paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section. The combined number of vehicles in the test groups certified to the 2007 standards may not exceed 50 percent of the manufacturer's U.S. heavy-duty vehicle sales of complete heavy-duty Otto-cycle motor vehicles for model year 2008.

(2)(i) Manufacturers certifying vehicles to all of the applicable standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section prior to model year 2008 (without using credits) may reduce the number of vehicles that are required to meet the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section in model year 2008 and/or 2009, taking into account the phase-in option provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. For every vehicle that is certified early, the manufacturer may reduce the number of vehicles that are required by paragraph (i)(1) of this section to meet the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section by one vehicle. For example, if a manufacturer produces 100 heavy-duty Otto-cycle vehicles in 2007 that meet all of the applicable the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section, and it produced 10,000 heavy-duty Otto-cycle vehicles in 2009, then only 9,900 of the vehicles would need to comply with the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section.

(ii) Manufacturers certifying vehicles to all of the applicable evaporative standards listed in paragraph (d) of this section prior to model year 2008 may reduce the number of vehicles that are required to meet the standards listed in paragraph (d) of this section in model year 2008 and/or 2009, taking into account the phase-in option provided in paragraph (i)(1) of this section. For every vehicle that is certified early, the manufacturer may reduce the number of vehicles that are required by paragraph (i)(1) of this section to meet the evaporative standards listed in paragraph (d) of this section by one vehicle.

(3) Manufacturers certifying vehicles to all of the applicable standards listed in paragraph (i)(3)(i) or (ii) of this section (without using credits) and the evaporative standards listed in paragraph (d) of this section prior to model year 2008 may reduce the number of vehicles that are required to meet the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section in model year 2008 and/or 2009, taking into account the phase-in option provided in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section. For every such vehicle that is certified early with sufficiently low emissions, the manufacturer may reduce the number of vehicles that are required by paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this section to meet the standards listed in paragraph (a) of this section by two vehicles. The applicable standards are:

(i) For complete heavy-duty vehicles at and above 8,500 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating but equal to or less than 10,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Rating: 0.100 g/mile NMHC, 0.10 g/mile NO, 3.2 g/mile CO, 0.008 g/mile formaldehyde, and 0.02 g/mile PM.

(ii) For complete heavy-duty vehicles at or above 10,000 pounds Gross Vehicle Weight Rating but equal to or less than 14,000 Gross Vehicle Weight Rating: 0.117 g/mile NMHC, 0.20 g/mile NO, 3.7 g/mile CO, 0.010 g/mile formaldehyde, and 0.02 g/mile PM.

(j) (1) For model years prior to 2012, for purposes of determining compliance after title or custody has transferred to the ultimate purchaser, for vehicles meeting the applicable emission standards of this section, the applicable compliance limits shall be determined by adding the applicable adjustment from paragraph (j)(2) of this section to the otherwise applicable standard or FEL.

(2) The in-use adjustments are:

(i) 0.1 g/mi for NO.

(ii) 0.100 g/mi NMHC.

(iii) 0.01 g/mi for PM.
