
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1816-18 Emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### Tier 3 exhaust emission standards.

(b)Exhaust emissions may not exceed the Tier 3 exhaust emission standards, as follows:

(1) Measure emissions using the procedures of subpart B of this part, using specific driving schedules and additional procedures as follows:

(i) The Federal Test Procedure (FTP) is based on testing with the Urban Dynamometer Driving Schedule (UDDS) specified in paragraph (a) of Appendix I of this part.

(ii) The Heavy-Duty Supplemental Federal Test Procedure (HD-SFTP) involves testing with the UDDS, the SC03 driving schedule specified in paragraph (h) of Appendix I of this part, and one of the following additional driving schedules:

(A) For Class 2b vehicles, the US06 driving schedule specified in paragraph (g) of Appendix I of this part.

(B) For Class 2b vehicles with a power-to-weight ratio at or below 0.024 hp/pound that are certified to optional standards under paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section, the highway portion of the US06 driving schedule characterized as the "second bag" in § 86.159-08(a).

(C) For Class 3 vehicles, the Hot LA-92 driving schedule as specified in paragraph (c) of Appendix I of this part.

(iii) HD-SFTP emissions are calculated as a composite of test results over these driving schedules based on the following calculation:

(iv) You may alternatively use FTP emission results to substitute for the SC03 value in the calculation under paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section for a given vehicle for any testing under this section. Such vehicles remain subject to the SFTP standard when tested over the SC03 driving schedule.

(v) Hydrocarbon emission standards are expressed as NMOG; however, you may measure exhaust emissions based on nonmethane hydrocarbon instead of NMOG as described in 40 CFR 1066.635.

(2) Table 1 of this section describes fully phased-in Tier 3 standards that apply as specified in this paragraph (b) for the identified driving schedules. The FTP standards for NMOG + NOapply on a fleet-average basis using discrete bin standards as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. The bin standards include additional emission standards for CO emissions, and for NMOG + NOstandards when testing over the HD-SFTP driving schedule. Table 1 follows:

(3) The FTP standards specified in this section apply equally for testing at low-altitude conditions and high-altitude conditions. The HD-SFTP standards described in this section apply only for testing at low-altitude conditions.

(4) The FTP emission standard for NMOG + NOis based on a fleet average in a given model year. You must specify a family emission limit (FEL) for each test group. The FEL serves as the emission standard for the test group with respect to all required FTP testing. Calculate your fleet-average emission level as described in § 86.1860 to show that you meet the specified standard. For multi-fueled vehicles, calculate fleet-average emission levels based only on emission levels for testing with gasoline or diesel fuel. You may generate or use emission credits for banking and trading and you may use banked or traded credits for demonstrating compliance with the FTP emission standard for NMOG + NOas described in § 86.1861. You comply with the emission standard for a given model year if you have enough credits to show that your fleet-average emission level is at or below the applicable standard. You may exchange credits between or among any test groups subject to standards under this section. Specify one of the identified values from Table 2 or Table 3 of this section as the FEL for demonstrating that your fleet-average emission level complies with the FTP emission standard for NMOG + NO. These FEL values define emission bins that also determine corresponding emission standards for NMOG + NOemissions over the HD-SFTP driving schedule and for CO emissions, as follows:

(5) [Reserved]

(6) The full Tier 3 program includes new emission standards for NMOG + NO, PM, CO, and formaldehyde; it also includes measurement with a new test fuel and a longer useful life. Vehicles meeting all these requirements are considered Final Tier 3 vehicles. Vehicles that do not meet all the Tier 3 requirements are considered Interim Tier 3 vehicles. The Tier 3 PM standards phase in over several years. Any vehicles not subject to Tier 3 PM standards during the phase-in period must continue to comply with the PM standards in § 86.1816-08. Paragraph (b)(7) of this section describes how to transition to Tier 3 standards for emissions other than PM. The following provisions describe the primary approach for phasing in the Tier 3 PM standards:

(i) You must meet the FTP emission standard for PM with 20, 40, 70, and 100 percent of your projected nationwide sales of all vehicles subject to this section in model years 2018 through 2021, respectively. Each vehicle meeting the Tier 3 FTP standard for PM must also meet the Tier 3 HD-SFTP standard for PM.

(ii) You may disregard the phase-in percentages specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section if you instead comply with an indexed PM phase-in schedule as described in this paragraph (b)(6)(ii). To do this, you must notify us of your intent before January 1, 2018, and include a detailed plan for complying with the indexed phase-in schedule. You comply with the indexed phase-in schedule by calculating a PM phase-in index at or above 440 using the following equation for model years 2018 through 2021:

(iii) Vehicles meeting the Tier 3 PM standards must meet those standards over the useful life as specified in § 86.1805. Note that Interim Tier 3 vehicles may have different useful life values for PM emission standards than for other emission standards.

(iv) Measure PM emissions from all vehicles using the same test fuel used for measuring NMOG + NOemissions.

(v) You may certify Interim Tier 3 vehicles based on carryover data.

(vi) You may use the alternative phase-in provisions described in paragraph (b)(8) of this section to transition to the Tier 3 exhaust emission standards on a different schedule.

(7) The following provisions describe the primary approach for phasing in the Tier 3 standards other than PM in 2022 and earlier model years:

(i) The fleet-average FTP emission standard for NMOG + NOphases in over several years as described in this paragraph (b)(7)(i). You must identify FELs as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section and calculate a fleet-average emission level to show that you meet the FTP emission standard for NMOG+NOthat applies for each model year. You may certify using transitional bin standards specified in Table 5 of this section through model year 2021; these vehicles are subject to the FTP emission standard for formaldehyde as described in § 86.1816-08. You may use the E0 test fuel specified in § 86.113 for gasoline-fueled vehicles certified to the transitional bins; the useful life period for these vehicles is 120,000 miles or 11 years. Fleet-average FTP emission standards decrease as shown in the following table:

(ii) You may use the alternative phase-in provisions described in paragraph (b)(8) of this section to transition to the Tier 3 exhaust emission standards on a different schedule.

(8) This paragraph (b)(8) describes an alternative approach to phasing in the Tier 3 emission standards. If you choose this approach, you must phase in the Tier 3 standards for all your vehicles subject to this section according to this schedule. Under this alternative phase in, you must meet all the standards specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section according to the phase-in schedule specified in Table 6 of this section based on the indicated percentage of your projected nationwide sales in each model year. These vehicles must meet the applicable FTP emission standard for CO and the HD-SFTP emission standards for NMOG + NOand CO that apply for Class 2b Bin 170 and Class 3 Bin 230 as described in paragraph (b)(4) of this section. Any vehicles not subject to Tier 3 standards during the phase-in period must continue to comply with the gaseous exhaust emission standards in § 86.1816-08. Each vehicle counting toward the PM phase-in percentage under this paragraph (b)(8) in model years 2019 and 2020 must also be included in the portion of the fleet meeting the Tier 3 standards for pollutants other than PM. Each vehicle counting toward the phase-in percentage for any pollutant must use the Tier 3 test fuel specified in § 86.113-15. The following exceptions and special provisions apply under this paragraph (b)(8):

(i) For model year 2019, you may exclude from the phase-in calculation any test groups that have a Job 1 date on or before March 3, 2018 (see 40 CFR 85.2304).

(ii) You may generate Tier 3 emission credits during the phase-in period if all your pre-Tier 3 vehicles in a given model year have FELs at or below the NOand NMHC standards in § 86.1816-08. Determine emission credits by calculating fleet-average emission levels for Tier 3 and pre-Tier 3 vehicles together; for pre-Tier 3 vehicles use an NMOG + NOequivalent FEL of 0.395 g/mile for Class 2b vehicles and 0.630 g/mile for Class 3 vehicles.

(9) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(8) of this section, you may not use credits generated from vehicles certified under § 86.1816-08 for demonstrating compliance with the Tier 3 standards.

(10) [Reserved]

(11) You may voluntarily certify your vehicles under this section in model years 2016 and 2017. If you do this, the fleet-average FTP emission standards for NMOG + NOapply to all your heavy-duty vehicles under this section as specified in paragraph (b)(7)(i) of this section. Use any of the available bin standards as described in this section. Vehicles certified under this paragraph (b)(11) must comply with the PM standards specified in § 86.1816-08 instead of the Tier 3 PM standards specified in this section.

(12) Alternate standards apply for in-use testing with 2022 and earlier model year vehicles as described in this paragraph (b)(12). These alternate standards apply in the first model year that a test group is certified to Tier 3 FTP or HD-SFTP standards for NMOG + NOor PM under this section. The alternate in-use standards also apply in the following model year (but not beyond 2022) for carryover test groups certified to the same bin standards. If you certify a test group to more stringent bin standards under this section in a given model year, the alternate in-use standards apply as if that were the first model year of certifying to the Tier 3 standards. The provisions of this section apply separately for NMOG + NOand PM. This paragraph (b)(12) does not apply for Bin 0 vehicles.

(i) The alternate in-use FTP standards for PM are 0.016 g/mile for Class 2b vehicles and 0.020 g/mile for Class 3 vehicles.

(ii) The alternate in-use HD-SFTP standards for PM are 0.012 g/mile for Class 2b vehicles with a power-to-weight ratio at or below 0.024 hp/pound that are certified to optional standards under paragraphs (b)(2) and (4) of this section, and 0.015 g/mile for other Class 2b vehicles. The alternate in-use HD-SFTP standard for PM is 0.012 g/mile for Class 3 vehicles. Alternate in-use HD-SFTP standards do not apply for vehicles certified to the transitional bins described in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(iii) Alternate in-use FTP and HD-SFTP standards for NMOG + NOapply as specified in the following table:

(13) Keep records as needed to show that you meet the requirements specified in this paragraph (b) for phasing in standards and for complying with declining fleet-average average standards.
