
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1817-05 Complete heavy-duty vehicle averaging, trading, and banking program.
####### Participation.

(b)Participation in the NOaveraging, trading, and banking program shall be done as follows:

(1) During certification, the manufacturer shall:

(i) Declare its intent to include specific test groups in the averaging, trading and banking program.

(ii) Declare an FEL for each test group participating in the program.

(A) The FEL must be to the same level of significant digits as the emission standard (one-hundredth of a gram per mile for NOemissions).

(B) In no case may the FEL exceed the upper limit prescribed in the section concerning the applicable complete heavy-duty vehicle chassis-based NOemission standard.

(iii) Calculate the projected NOemission credits (positive or negative) as defined in § 86.1803-01 based on quarterly production projections for each participating test group, using the applicable equation in paragraph (c) of this section and the applicable factors for the specific test group.

(iv)(A) Determine and state the source of the needed credits according to quarterly projected production for test groups requiring credits for certification.

(B) State where the quarterly projected credits will be applied for test groups generating credits.

(C) Emission credits as defined in § 86.1803-01 may be obtained from or applied to only test groups within the same averaging set as defined in § 86.1803-01. Emission credits available for averaging, trading, or banking, may be applied exclusively to a given test group, or designated as reserved credits as defined in § 86.1803-01.

(2) Based on this information, each manufacturer's certification application must demonstrate:

(i) That at the end of model year production, each test group has a net emissions credit balance of zero or more using the methodology in paragraph (c) of this section with any credits obtained from averaging, trading or banking.

(ii) The source of the credits to be used to comply with the emission standard if the FEL exceeds the standard, or where credits will be applied if the FEL is less than the emission standard. In cases where credits are being obtained, each test group involved must state specifically the source (manufacturer/test group) of the credits being used. In cases where credits are being generated/supplied, each test group involved must state specifically the designated use (manufacturer/test group or reserved) of the credits involved. All such reports shall include all credits involved in averaging, trading or banking.

(3) During the model year, manufacturers must:

(i) Monitor projected versus actual production to be certain that compliance with the emission standards is achieved at the end of the model year.

(ii) Provide the end-of-year reports required under paragraph (i) of this section.

(iii) For manufacturers participating in emission credit trading, maintain the quarterly records required under paragraph (l) of this section.

(4) Projected credits based on information supplied in the certification application may be used to obtain a certificate of conformity. However, any such credits may be revoked based on review of end-of-model year reports, follow-up audits, and any other compliance measures deemed appropriate by the Administrator.

(5) Compliance under averaging, banking, and trading will be determined at the end of the model year. Test groups without an adequate amount of NOemission credits will violate the conditions of the certificate of conformity. The certificates of conformity may be voided ab initio for test groups exceeding the emission standard.

(6) If EPA or the manufacturer determines that a reporting error occurred on an end-of-year report previously submitted to EPA under this section, the manufacturer's credits and credit calculations will be recalculated. Erroneous positive credits will be void. Erroneous negative balances may be adjusted by EPA for retroactive use.

(i) If EPA review of a manufacturer's end-of-year report indicates a credit shortfall, the manufacturer will be permitted to purchase the necessary credits to bring the credit balance for that test group to zero, at the ratio of 1.2 credits purchased for every credit needed to bring the balance to zero. If sufficient credits are not available to bring the credit balance for the test group in question to zero, EPA may void the certificate for that test group ab initio.

(ii) If within 180 days of receipt of the manufacturer's end-of-year report, EPA review determines a reporting error in the manufacturer's favor (i.e. resulting in a positive credit balance) or if the manufacturer discovers such an error within 180 days of EPA receipt of the end-of-year report, the credits will be restored for use by the manufacturer.
