
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1817-05 Complete heavy-duty vehicle averaging, trading, and banking program.
####### General.

(a)(1) Complete heavy-duty vehicles eligible for the NOaveraging, trading, and banking program are described in the applicable emission standards section of this subpart. Participation in this averaging, trading, and banking program is voluntary.

(2)(i) Test groups with a family emission limit (FEL) as defined in ยง 86.1803-01 exceeding the applicable standard shall obtain emission credits as defined in ยง 86.1803-01 in a mass amount sufficient to address the shortfall. Credits may be obtained from averaging, trading, or banking, as defined in ยง 86.1803-01 within the averaging set restrictions described in paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) Test groups with an FEL below the applicable standard will have emission credits available to average, trade, bank or a combination thereof. Credits may not be used for averaging or trading to offset emissions that exceed an FEL. Credits may not be used to remedy an in-use nonconformity determined by a Selective Enforcement Audit or by recall testing. However, credits may be used to allow subsequent production of vehicles for the test group in question if the manufacturer elects to recertify to a higher FEL.
