
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1817-05 Complete heavy-duty vehicle averaging, trading, and banking program.
####### Credit apportionment.

(h)At the manufacturers option, credits generated from complete heavy-duty vehicles under the provisions described in this section may be sold to or otherwise provided to another party for use in programs other than the averaging, trading and banking program described in this section.

(1) The manufacturer shall pre-identify two emission levels per test group for the purposes of credit apportionment. One emission level shall be the FEL and the other shall be the level of the standard that the test group is required to certify under ยง 86.1816-04. For each test group, the manufacturer may report vehicle sales in two categories, "ABT-only credits" and "nonmanufacturer-owned credits".

(i) For vehicle sales reported as "ABT-only credits", the credits generated must be used solely in the averaging, trading and banking program described in this section.

(ii) The vehicle manufacturer may declare a portion of vehicle sales "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" and this portion of the credits generated between the standard and the FEL, based on the calculation in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, would belong to the vehicle purchaser. The manufacturer may not generate any credits for the vehicle sales reported as "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" for this averaging, trading and banking program. Vehicles reported as "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" shall comply with the FEL and the requirements of this averaging, trading and banking program in all other respects.

(2) Only manufacturer-owned credits reported as "ABT-only credits" shall be used in the averaging, trading, and banking provisions described in this section.

(3) Credits shall not be double-counted. Credits used in this averaging, trading and banking program may not be provided to a vehicle purchaser for use in another program.

(4) Manufacturers shall determine and state the number of vehicles sold as "ABT-only credits" and "nonmanufacturer-owned credits" in the end-of-model year reports required under paragraph (i) of this section.
