
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1817-08 Complete heavy-duty vehicle averaging, trading, and banking program.

Section 86.1817-08 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.1817-05. Where a paragraph in § 86.1817-05 is identical and applicable to § 86.1817-08, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement "[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1817-05." This section does not apply for NOor NMOG + NOemissions for vehicles certified to the Tier 3 standards in § 86.1816-18, including those vehicles that certify to the Tier 3 standards before model year 2018. See §§ 86.1860 and 86.1861 for provisions that apply for vehicles certified to the Tier3 standards.

(a) through (o) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1817-05.

(p) The following provisions apply for model year 2008 and later engines. These provisions apply instead of the provisions of paragraphs § 86.1817-05 (a) through (o) to the extent that they are in conflict.

(1) Manufacturers of Otto-cycle vehicles may participate in an NMHC averaging, banking and trading program to show compliance with the standards specified in § 86.1806-08. The generation and use of NMHC credits are subject to the same provisions in paragraphs § 86.1817-05 (a) through (o) that apply for NOcredits, except as otherwise specified in this section.

(2) NOor NMHC (or NOplus NMHC) credits may be exchanged between heavy-duty Otto-cycle test groups certified to the engine standards of subpart A of this part and heavy-duty Otto-cycle test groups certified to the chassis standards of this subpart, subject to an 0.8 discount factor (e.g., 100 grams of NOcredits generated from vehicles would be equivalent to 80 grams of NOcredits if they are used in the engine program of subpart A of this part, and vice versa). Credits that were previously discounted when they were banked according to § 86.1817-05(c), are subject to an additional discount factor of 0.888 instead of the 0.8 discount factor otherwise required by this paragraph (p)(2). This results in a total discount of 0.8 (0.9 x 0.888 = 0.8).

(3) Credits are to be rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a Megagram.

(4) To calculate credits relative to the NOstandards listed in § 86.1816-08 (a)(1)(iv)(A) or (a)(2)(iv)(A) (0.2 or 0.4 grams per mile, respectively) express the standard and FEL to the nearest one-hundredth of a gram per mile prior to calculating the credits. Thus, either 0.20 or 0.40 should be used as the value for "Std".

(5) Credits generated for 2008 and later model year test groups are not discounted (except as specified in § 86.1817-05(c) and paragraph (p)(2) of this section), and do not expire.

(6) For the purpose of using or generating credits during a phase-in of new standards, a manufacturer may elect to split a test group into two subgroups: one which uses credits and one which generates credits. The manufacturer must indicate in the application for certification that the test group is to be split, and may assign the numbers and configurations of vehicles within the respective subfamilies at any time prior to the submission of the end-of-year report described in § 86.1817-05 (i)(3). Manufacturers certifying a split test group may label all of the vehicles within that test group with the same FELs: either with a NOFEL and an NMHC FEL, or with a single NO+ NMHC FEL. The FEL(s) on the label will apply for all SEA or other compliance testing.

(7) Vehicles meeting all of the applicable standards of § 86.1816-08 prior to model year 2008 may generate NMHC credits for use by 2008 or later test groups. Credits are calculated according to § 86.1817-05(c), except that the applicable FEL cap listed in § 86.1816-08(a)(1)(ii)(B) or (2)(ii)(B) applies instead of "Std" (the applicable standard).
