
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1817-05 Complete heavy-duty vehicle averaging, trading, and banking program.
####### End-of-year report.

(3)The manufacturer shall submit end-of-year reports for each test group participating in the averaging, trading and banking program, as described in paragraphs (i)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) These reports shall be submitted within 90 days of the end of the model year to: Director, Certification and Compliance Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Mail Code 6405J, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW., 20460.

(ii) These reports shall indicate the test group, the averaging set, the actual U.S. production volume (excluding vehicles produced for sale in California), the values required to calculate credits as given in the applicable averaging, trading and banking section, and the resulting type and number of credits generated/required. Manufacturers shall also submit how and where credit surpluses were dispersed (or are to be banked) and how and through what means credit deficits were met. Copies of contracts related to credit trading must also be included or supplied by the broker if applicable. The report shall also include a calculation of credit balances to show that net mass emissions balances are within those allowed by the emission standards (equal to or greater than a zero credit balance). Any credit discount factor described in the applicable averaging, trading and banking section must be included as required.

(iii) The production counts for end-of-year reports shall be based on the location of the first point of retail sale (e.g., customer, dealer, secondary manufacturer) by the manufacturer.

(iv) Errors discovered by EPA or the manufacturer in the end-of-year report, including changes in the production counts, may be corrected up to 180 days subsequent to submission of the end-of-year report. Errors discovered by EPA after 180 days shall be corrected if credits are reduced. Errors in the manufacturer's favor will not be corrected if discovered after the 180 day correction period allowed.
