
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1817-05 Complete heavy-duty vehicle averaging, trading, and banking program.
####### Credit transfers.

(o)A manufacturer that elects to comply with Option 1 or 2 contained in ยง 86.005-10(f) may transfer credits between its complete vehicle averaging set and its heavy-duty Otto-cycle engine averaging set as follows:

(1) Credits earned in model years 2004 (2003 for Option 1) through 2007 are eligible to be transferred.

(2) Transferred credits may not be banked for use in model years 2008 and later. Credits that are transferred but not used prior to model year 2008 must be forfeited.

(3) Prior to transferring credits, a manufacturer must develop a methodology to transfer the credits including a conversion factor that may be used to convert between chassis-based credits (derived on a grams per mile basis) and equivalent engine-based credits (derived on a grams per brake horsepower-hour basis). The methodology must be approved by EPA prior to the start of the model year in which the credits are to be transferred. The conversion factor must provide reasonable certainty that the credits are equivalent for the specific vehicle test group(s) and engine family(s) involved in the generation and use of the credits.
