
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1818-12 Greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Eligibility for alternative standards.

(1)Eligibility as determined in this paragraph (g) shall be based on the total sales of combined passenger automobiles and light trucks. The terms "sales" and "sold" as used in this paragraph (g) shall mean vehicles produced for U.S. sale, where "U.S." means the states and territories of the United States. For the purpose of determining eligibility the sales of related companies shall be aggregated according to the provisions of ยง 86.1838-01(b)(3), or, if a manufacturer has been granted operational independence status under ยง 86.1838(d), eligibility shall be based on vehicle production of that manufacturer. To be eligible for alternative standards established under this paragraph (g), the manufacturer's average sales for the three most recent consecutive model years must remain below 5,000. If a manufacturer's average sales for the three most recent consecutive model years exceeds 4999, the manufacturer will no longer be eligible for exemption and must meet applicable emission standards starting with the model year according to the provisions in this paragraph (g)(1).

(i) If a manufacturer's average sales for three consecutive model years exceeds 4999, and if the increase in sales is the result of corporate acquisitions, mergers, or purchase by another manufacturer, the manufacturer shall comply with the emission standards described in paragraph (c) of this section, as applicable, beginning with the first model year after the last year of the three consecutive model years.

(ii) If a manufacturer's average sales for three consecutive model years exceeds 4999 and is less than 50,000, and if the increase in sales is solely the result of the manufacturer's expansion in vehicle production (not the result of corporate acquisitions, mergers, or purchase by another manufacturer), the manufacturer shall comply with the emission standards described in paragraph (c), of this section, as applicable, beginning with the second model year after the last year of the three consecutive model years.
