
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1818-12 Greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Optional use of alternative N,O and/or CH,standards.

(3)Manufacturers may select an alternative standard applicable to a test group, for either NO or CH, or both. For example, a manufacturer may choose to meet the NO standard in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section and an alternative CHstandard in lieu of the standard in paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section. The alternative standard for each pollutant must be greater than the applicable exhaust emission standard specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. Alternative NO and CHstandards apply to emissions measured according to the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) described in Subpart B of this part for the full useful life, and become the applicable certification and in-use emission standard(s) for the test group. Manufacturers using an alternative standard for NO and/or CHmust calculate emission debits according to the provisions of paragraph (f)(4) of this section for each test group/alternative standard combination. Debits must be included in the calculation of total credits or debits generated in a model year as required under ยง 86.1865-12(k)(5). For flexible fuel vehicles (or other vehicles certified for multiple fuels) you must meet these alternative standards when tested on any applicable test fuel type.
