
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1818-12 Greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Nitrous oxide,(N,O),and methane,(CH,) exhaust emission standards for passenger automobiles and light trucks.

(f)Each manufacturer's fleet of combined passenger automobiles and light trucks must comply with NO and CHstandards using either the provisions of paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (3) of this section. Except with prior EPA approval, a manufacturer may not use the provisions of both paragraphs (f)(1) and (2) of this section in a model year. For example, a manufacturer may not use the provisions of paragraph (f)(1) of this section for their passenger automobile fleet and the provisions of paragraph (f)(2) for their light truck fleet in the same model year. The manufacturer may use the provisions of both paragraphs (f)(1) and (3) of this section in a model year. For example, a manufacturer may meet the NO standard in paragraph (f)(1)(i) of this section and an alternative CHstandard determined under paragraph (f)(3) of this section. Vehicles certified using the NO data submittal waiver provisions of ยง 86.1829(b)(1)(iii)(G) are not required to be tested for NO under the in-use testing programs required by ยง 86.1845 and ยง 86.1846.
