
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1818-12 Greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Temporary Lead Time Allowance Alternative Standards.

(e)(1) The interim fleet average COstandards in this paragraph (e) are optionally applicable to each qualifying manufacturer, where the terms "sales" or "sold" as used in this paragraph (e) means vehicles produced for U.S. sale, where "U.S." means the states and territories of the United States.

(i) A qualifying manufacturer is a manufacturer with sales of 2009 model year combined passenger automobiles and light trucks of greater than zero and less than 400,000 vehicles that elects to participate in the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards described in this paragraph (e).

(A) If a manufacturer sold less than 400,000 but more than zero 2009 model year combined passenger automobiles and light trucks while under the control of another manufacturer, where those 2009 model year passenger automobiles and light trucks bore the brand of the producing manufacturer, and where the producing manufacturer became independent no later than December 31, 2010, the producing manufacturer is a qualifying manufacturer.

(B) In the case where two or more qualifying manufacturers combine as the result of merger or the purchase of 50 percent or more of one or more companies by another company, and if the combined 2009 model year sales of the merged or combined companies is less than 400,000 but more than zero (combined passenger automobiles and light trucks), the corporate entity formed by the combination of two or more qualifying manufacturers shall continue to be a qualifying manufacturer, except the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(i)(D) shall apply in the case where one of the merging companies elects to voluntarily opt out of the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards as allowed under paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section. The total number of vehicles that the corporate entity is allowed to include under the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards shall be determined by paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section, where sales is the total combined 2009 model year sales of all of the merged or combined companies. Vehicles sold by the companies that combined by merger/acquisition to form the corporate entity that were subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards in paragraph (e)(4) of this section prior to the merger/acquisition shall be combined to determine the remaining number of vehicles that the corporate entity may include under the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards in this paragraph (e).

(C) In the case where two or more manufacturers combine as the result of merger or the purchase of 50 percent or more of one or more companies by another company, and if the combined 2009 model year sales of the merged or combined companies is equal to or greater than 400,000 (combined passenger automobiles and light trucks), the new corporate entity formed by the combination of two or more manufacturers is not a qualifying manufacturer. Such a manufacturer shall meet the emission standards in paragraph (c) of this section beginning with the model year that is numerically two years greater than the calendar year in which the merger/acquisition(s) took place.

(D) In the case where two or more manufacturers combine as the result of merger or the purchase of 50 percent or more of one or more companies by another company, where one of the manufacturers chooses to voluntarily opt out of the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards under the provisions of paragraph (e)(1)(iv) of this section, the new corporate entity formed by the combination of two or more manufacturers is not a qualifying manufacturer. Such a manufacturer shall meet the emission standards in paragraph (c) of this section beginning with the model year that is numerically two years greater than the calendar year in which the merger/acquisition(s) took place. If one or more of the merged or combined manufacturers was complying with the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards prior to the merger/combination, that manufacturer is no longer eligible for the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards beginning with the model year that is numerically two years greater than the calendar year in which the merger/acquisition(s) took place. The cumulative number of vehicles that such a manufacturer may include in the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards, including those that were included by all merged manufacturers prior to the merger/acquisition, is limited to 100,000.

(ii) For the purposes of making the determination in paragraph (e)(1)(i) of this section, "manufacturer" shall mean that term as defined at 49 CFR 531.4 and as that definition was applied to the 2009 model year for the purpose of determining compliance with the 2009 corporate average fuel economy standards at 49 CFR parts 531 and 533.

(iii) A qualifying manufacturer may not use these Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards until they have used all available banked credits and/or credits available for transfer accrued under § 86.1865-12(k). A qualifying manufacturer with a net positive credit balance calculated under § 86.1865-12(k) in any model year after considering all available credits either generated, carried forward from a prior model year, transferred from other averaging sets, or obtained from other manufacturers, may not use these Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards in such model year.

(iv) In the event of a merger, acquisition, or combination with another manufacturer, a qualifying manufacturer that has not certified any vehicles to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards in any model year may voluntarily opt out of the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards. A manufacturer making this election must notify EPA in writing of their intent prior to the end of the model year in which a merger or combination with another manufacturer becomes effective. The notification must indicate that the manufacturer is electing to not use the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards in any model year, and that any manufacturers that are either purchased by or merged with the manufacturer making this election must also meet the emission standards in paragraph (c) of this section beginning with the model year that is numerically two years greater than the calendar year in which the merger/acquisition(s) took place.

(2) Qualifying manufacturers may select any combination of 2012 through 2015 model year passenger automobiles and/or light trucks to include under the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards determined in this paragraph (e) up to a cumulative total of 100,000 vehicles. Vehicles selected to comply with these standards shall not be included in the calculations of the manufacturer's fleet average standards under paragraph (c) of this section.

(3)(i) Qualifying manufacturers with sales of 2009 model year combined passenger automobiles and light trucks in the United States of greater than zero and less than 50,000 vehicles may select any combination of 2012 through 2015 model year passenger automobiles and/or light trucks to include under the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards determined in this paragraph (e) up to a cumulative total of 200,000 vehicles, and additionally may select up to 50,000 2016 model year vehicles to include under the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards determined in this paragraph (e). To be eligible for the provisions of this paragraph (e)(3) qualifying manufacturers must provide annual documentation of good-faith efforts made by the manufacturer to purchase credits from other manufacturers. Without such documentation, the manufacturer may use the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards according to the provisions of paragraph (e)(2) of this section, and the provisions of this paragraph (e)(3) shall not apply. Vehicles selected to comply with these standards shall not be included in the calculations of the manufacturer's fleet average standards under paragraph (c) of this section.

(ii) Manufacturers that qualify in the 2016 model year for the expanded Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards described in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, may, subject to certain restrictions, use an alternative compliance schedule that provides additional lead time to meet the standards in paragraph (c) of this section for the 2017 through 2020 model years.

(A) The alternative compliance schedule is as described in this paragraph (e)(3)(ii)(A). In lieu of the standards in paragraph (c) of this section that would otherwise be applicable to the model year shown in the first column of table 8 to § 86.1818-12(e)(3)(ii)(A), a qualifying manufacturer may comply with the standards in paragraph (c) of this section determined for the model year shown in the second column of the table. In the 2021 and later model years the manufacturer must meet the standards designated for each model year in paragraph (c) of this section. Table 8 to § 86.1818-12(e)(3)(ii)(A) follows:

(B) A manufacturer using the alternative compliance schedule in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section may not sell or otherwise transfer credits generated in years when the alternative phase-in is used to other manufacturers. Other provisions in § 86.1865 regarding credit banking, deficit carry-forward, and within-manufacturer transfers across fleets apply.

(4) To calculate the applicable Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards, qualifying manufacturers shall determine the fleet average standard separately for the passenger automobiles and light trucks selected by the manufacturer to be subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards, subject to the limitations expressed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3) of this section.

(i) The Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standard applicable to qualified passenger automobiles as defined in § 600.002-08 of this chapter shall be the standard calculated using the provisions of paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section for the appropriate model year multiplied by 1.25 and rounded to the nearest whole gram per mile. For the purposes of applying paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section to determine the standard, the passenger automobile fleet shall be limited to those passenger automobiles subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standard.
