
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1818-12 Greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Requirements for new entrants into the U.S. market.

(2)New entrants are those manufacturers without a prior record of automobile sales in the United States and without prior certification to (or exemption from, under ยง 86.1801-12(k)) greenhouse gas emission standards in ยง 86.1818-12. In addition to the eligibility requirements stated in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, new entrants must meet the following requirements:

(i) In addition to the information required under paragraph (g)(4) of this section, new entrants must provide documentation that shows a clear intent by the company to actually enter the U.S. market in the years for which alternative standards are requested. Demonstrating such intent could include providing documentation that shows the establishment of a U.S. dealer network, documentation of work underway to meet other U.S. requirements (e.g., safety standards), or other information that reasonably establishes intent to the satisfaction of the Administrator.

(ii) Sales of vehicles in the U.S. by new entrants must remain below 5,000 vehicles for the first three model years in the U.S. market, and in subsequent years the average sales for any three consecutive years must remain below 5,000 vehicles. Vehicles sold in violation of these limits within the first five model years will be considered not covered by the certificate of conformity and the manufacturer will be subject to penalties on an individual-vehicle basis for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate. In addition, violation of these limits will result in loss of eligibility for alternative standards until such point as the manufacturer demonstrates two consecutive model years of sales below 5,000 automobiles. After the first five model years, the eligibility provisions in paragraph (g)(1) of this section apply, where violating the sales thresholds is no longer a violation of the condition on the certificate, but is instead grounds for losing eligibility for alternative standards.

(iii) A manufacturer with sales in the most recent model year of less than 5,000 automobiles, but where prior model year sales were not less than 5,000 automobiles, is eligible to request alternative standards under this paragraph (g). However, such a manufacturer will be considered a new entrant and subject to the provisions regarding new entrants in this paragraph (g), except that the requirement to demonstrate an intent to enter the U.S. market in paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section shall not apply.
