
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1818-12 Greenhouse gas emission standards for light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles.
####### Technology evaluation information.

(ii)(A) The COreduction technologies employed by the manufacturer on each vehicle model, or projected to be employed, including information regarding the cost and CO-reducing effectiveness. Include technologies that improve air conditioning efficiency and reduce air conditioning system leakage, and any "off-cycle" technologies that potentially provide benefits outside the operation represented by the Federal Test Procedure and the Highway Fuel Economy Test.

(B) An evaluation of comparable models from other manufacturers, including COresults and air conditioning credits generated by the models. Comparable vehicles should be similar, but not necessarily identical, in the following respects: vehicle type, horsepower, mass, power-to-weight ratio, footprint, retail price, and any other relevant factors. For manufacturers requesting alternative standards starting with the 2017 model year, the analysis of comparable vehicles should include vehicles from the 2012 and 2013 model years, otherwise the analysis should at a minimum include vehicles from the most recent two model years.

(C) A discussion of the CO-reducing technologies employed on vehicles offered outside of the U.S. market but not available in the U.S., including a discussion as to why those vehicles and/or technologies are not being used to achieve COreductions for vehicles in the U.S. market.

(D) An evaluation, at a minimum, of the technologies projected by the Environmental Protection Agency in a final rulemaking as those technologies likely to be used to meet greenhouse gas emission standards and the extent to which those technologies are employed or projected to be employed by the manufacturer. For any technology that is not projected to be fully employed, explain why this is the case.
