
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### N,O,CH,standards,GWP,GWP

(c)and. Except as allowed under this paragraph (c), all vehicles subject to the standards of this section must comply with an NO standard of 0.05 g/mile and a CHstandard of 0.05 g/mile when calculated according to the provisions of paragraph (d)(4) of this section. You may specify CHand/or NO alternative standards using COemission credits instead of these otherwise applicable emission standards for one or more test groups. To do this, calculate the CHand/or NO emission credits needed (negative credits) using the equation in this paragraph (c) based on the FEL(s) you specify for your vehicles during certification. You must adjust the calculated emissions by the global warming potential ():equals 34 for CHfrom model year 2021 and later vehicles, 25 for CHfrom earlier vehicles, and 298 for NO. This means, for example, that you must use 298 Mg of positive COcredits to offset 1 Mg of negative NO credits. Note that ยง 86.1818-12(f) does not apply for vehicles subject to the standards of this section. Calculate credits using the following equation, rounded to the nearest whole number:
