
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### Compliance provisions.

(d)The following compliance provisions apply instead of other provisions described in this subpart S:

(1) The COstandards of this section apply with respect to COemissions, not with respect to carbon-related exhaust emissions (CREE).

(2) The following general credit provisions apply:

(i) Credits you generate under this section may be used only to offset credit deficits under this section. You may bank credits for use in a future model year in which your average COlevel exceeds the standard. You may trade credits to another manufacturer according to § 86.1865-12(k)(8). Before you bank or trade credits, you must apply any available credits to offset a deficit if the deadline to offset that credit deficit has not yet passed.

(ii) Vehicles subject to the standards of this section are included in a single greenhouse gas averaging set separate from any averaging set otherwise included in this subpart S.

(iii) Banked COcredits keep their full value for five model years after the year in which they were generated. Unused credits may not be used for more than five model years after the model year in which the credits are generated.

(3) Special credit and incentive provisions related to air conditioning in §§ 86.1867 and 86.1868 do not apply for vehicles subject to the standards of this section.

(4) Measure emissions using the procedures of subpart B of this part and 40 CFR part 1066. Determine separate emission results for the Federal Test Procedure (FTP) described in 40 CFR 1066.801(c)(1) and the Highway Fuel Economy Test (HFET) described in 40 CFR 1066.801(c)(3). Calculate composite emission results from these two test cycles for demonstrating compliance with the CO, NO, and CHstandards based on a weighted average of the FTP (55%) and HFET (45%) emission results. Note that this differs from the way the criteria pollutant standards apply.

(5) Apply an additive deterioration factor of zero to measured COemissions unless good engineering judgment indicates that emissions are likely to deteriorate in use. Use good engineering judgment to develop separate deterioration factors for NO and CH.

(6) Credits are calculated using the useful life value (in miles) in place of "vehicle lifetime miles" as specified in § 86.1865. Calculate a total credit or debit balance in a model year by adding credits and debits from § 86.1865-12(k)(4), subtracting any CO-equivalent debits for NO or CHcalculated according to paragraph (c) of this section, and adding any of the following credits:

(i) Off-cycle technology credits according to paragraph (d)(13) of this section.

(ii) Early credits from vehicles certified under paragraph (k)(2) of this section.

(iii) Advanced-technology credits according to paragraph (k)(7) of this section.

(7) [Reserved]

(8) The provisions of § 86.1818 do not apply.

(9) Calculate your fleet-average emission rate consistent with good engineering judgment and the provisions of § 86.1865. The following additional provisions apply:

(i) Unless we approve a lower number, you must test at least ten subconfigurations. If you produce more than 100 subconfigurations in a given model year, you must test at least ten percent of your subconfigurations. For purposes of this paragraph (d)(9)(i), count carryover tests, but do not include analytically derived COemission rates, data substitutions, or other untested allowances. We may approve a lower number of tests for manufacturers that have limited product offerings, or low sales volumes. Note that good engineering judgment and other provisions of this part may require you to test more subconfigurations than these minimum values.

(ii) The provisions of paragraph (g) of this section specify how you may use analytically derived COemission rates.

(iii) At least 90 percent of final production volume at the configuration level must be represented by test data (real, data substituted, or analytical).

(iv) Perform fleet-average COcalculations as described in § 86.1865 and 40 CFR part 600, with the following exceptions:

(A) Use COemissions values for all test results, intermediate calculations, and fleet average calculations instead of the carbon-related exhaust emission (CREE) values specified in this subpart S and 40 CFR part 600.

(B) Perform intermediate COcalculations for subconfigurations within each configuration using the subconfiguration and configuration definitions in paragraph (d)(12) of this section.

(C) Perform intermediate COcalculations for configurations within each test group and transmission type (instead of configurations within each base level and base levels within each model type). Use the configuration definition in paragraph (d)(12)(i) of this section.

(D) Do not perform intermediate COcalculations for each base level or for each model type. Base level and model type COcalculations are not applicable to heavy-duty vehicles subject to standards in this section.

(E) Determine fleet average COemissions for heavy-duty vehicles subject to standards in this section as described in 40 CFR 600.510-12(j), except that the calculations must be performed on the basis of test group and transmission type (instead of the model-type basis specified in the light-duty vehicle regulations), and the calculations for dual-fuel, multi-fuel, and flexible-fuel vehicles must be consistent with the provisions of paragraph (d)(10)(i) of this section.

(10) For dual-fuel, multi-fuel, and flexible-fuel vehicles, perform exhaust testing on each fuel type (for example, gasoline and E85).

(i) For your fleet-average calculations in model year 2016 and later, use either the conventional-fueled COemission rate or a weighted average of your emission results as specified in 40 CFR 600.510-12(k) for light-duty trucks. For your fleet-average calculations before model year 2016, apply an equal weighting of COemission results from alternative and conventional fuels.

(ii) If you certify to an alternate standard for NO or CHemissions, you may not exceed the alternate standard when tested on either fuel.

(11) Test your vehicles with an equivalent test weight based on its Adjusted Loaded Vehicle Weight (ALVW). Determine equivalent test weight from the ALVW as specified in 40 CFR 1066.805; round ALVW values above 14,000 pounds to the nearest 500 pound increment.

(12) The following definitions apply for the purposes of this section:
