
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### i.e.,

(iii) Where necessary to minimize the COadjustment, you may supplement the pool with tests associated with worst-case engine or transmission codes and carryover or carry-across test groups. If you do, all the data that qualify for inclusion using the elected worst-case substitution (or carryover or carry-across) must be included in the pool as supplemental data (individual test vehicles may not be selected for inclusion). You must also include the supplemental data in all subsequent pools, where applicable.

(iv) Tests previously used during the subject model year as baseline tests in ten other ADC subconfigurations must be eliminated from the pool.

(v) Select the tested subconfiguration with the smallest absolute difference between the ADC and the test COemission rate for combined emissions. Use this as the baseline test for the target ADC subconfiguration.

(4) You may ask us to allow you to use baseline test data not fully meeting the provisions of paragraph (g)(3) of this section.

(5) Calculate the ADC rounded to the nearest whole g/mile. Except with our advance approval, the downward adjustment of ADC from the baseline is limited to ADC values 20 percent below the baseline emission rate. The upward adjustment is not limited.

(6) You may not submit an ADC if an actual test has been run on the target subconfiguration during the certification process or on a development vehicle that is eligible to be declared as an emission-data vehicle.

(7) No more than 40 percent of the subconfigurations tested in your final COsubmission may be represented by ADCs.

(8) Keep the following records for at least five years, and show them to us if we ask to see them:

(i) The pool of tests.

(ii) The vehicle description and tests chosen as the baseline and the basis for the selection.

(iii) The target ADC subconfiguration.

(iv) The calculated emission rates.

(9) We may perform or order a confirmatory test of any subconfiguration covered by an ADC.

(10) Where we determine that you did not fully comply with the provisions of this paragraph (g), we may require that you comply based on actual test data and that you recalculate your fleet-average emission rate.
