
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### Subconfiguration

(ii)means a unique combination within a vehicle configuration (as defined in this paragraph (d)(12)) of equivalent test weight, road-load horsepower, and any other operational characteristics or parameters that we determine may significantly affect COemissions within a vehicle configuration. Note that for vehicles subject to standards of this section, equivalent test weight (ETW) is based on the ALVW of the vehicle as outlined in paragraph (d)(11) of this section.

(13) This paragraph (d)(13) applies for COreductions resulting from technologies that were not in common use before 2010 that are not reflected in the specified test procedures. While you are not required to prove that such technologies were not in common use with heavy-duty vehicles before model year 2010, we will not approve your request if we determine they do not qualify. These may be described as off-cycle or innovative technologies. We may allow you to generate emission credits consistent with the provisions of ยง 86.1869-12(c) and (d). The 5-cycle methodology is not presumed to be preferred over alternative methodologies described in ยง 86.1869-12(d).

(14) You must submit pre-model year reports before you submit your applications for certification for a given model year. Unless we specify otherwise, include the information specified for pre-model year reports in 49 CFR 535.8.

(15) You must submit a final report within 90 days after the end of the model year. Unless we specify otherwise, include applicable information identified in ยง 86.1865-12(l), 40 CFR 600.512, and 49 CFR 535.8(e). The final report must include at least the following information:

(i) Model year.

(ii) Applicable fleet-average COstandard.

(iii) Calculated fleet-average COvalue and all the values required to calculate the COvalue.

(iv) Number of credits or debits incurred and all values required to calculate those values.

(v) Resulting balance of credits or debits.

(vi) NO emissions.

(vii) CHemissions.

(viii) Total and percent leakage rates under paragraph (h) of this section.

(16) You may apply the provisions for delegated assembly as described in 40 CFR 1037.621.

(17) You may calculate emission rates for weight increments less than the 500 pound increment specified for test weight. This does not change the applicable test weights.

(i) Use the ADC equation in paragraph (g) of this section to adjust your emission rates for vehicles in increments of 50, 100, or 250 pounds instead of the 500 test-weight increments. Adjust emissions to the midpoint of each increment. This is the equivalent emission weight. For example, vehicles with a test weight basis of 11,751 to 12,250 pounds (which have an equivalent test weight of 12,000 pounds) could be regrouped into 100 pound increments as follows:

(ii) You must use the same increment for all equivalent test weight classes across your whole product line in a given model year. You must also specify curb weight for calculating the work factor in a way that is consistent with your approach for determining test weight for calculating ADCs under this paragraph (d)(17).
