
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### F,F,F

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section, use the following equation to calculate the ADC of a new vehicle from road load force coefficients (0,1,2), axle ratio, and test weight:

(2) The purpose of this section is to accurately estimate COemission rates.

(i) You must apply the provisions of this section consistent with good engineering judgment. For example, do not use the equation in paragraph (g)(1) of this section where good engineering judgment indicates that it will not accurately estimate emissions. You may ask us to approve alternate equations that allow you to estimate emissions more accurately.

(ii) The analytically derived COequation in paragraph (g)(1) of this section may be periodically updated through publication of an EPA guidance document to more accurately characterize COemission levels for example, changes may be appropriate based on new test data, future technology changes, or to changes in future COemission levels. Any EPA guidance document will determine the model year that the updated equation takes effect. We will issue guidance no later than eight months before the effective model year. For example, model year 2014 may start January 2, 2013, so guidance for model year 2014 would be issued by May 1, 2012.

(3) You may select baseline test data without our advance approval if they meet all the following criteria:

(i) Vehicles considered for the baseline test must comply with all applicable emission standards in the model year associated with the ADC.

(ii) You must include in the pool of tests considered for baseline selection all official tests of the same or equivalent basic engine, transmission class, engine code, transmission code, engine horsepower, dynamometer drive wheels, and compression ratio as the ADC subconfiguration. Do not include tests in which emissions exceed any applicable standard.
