
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### Advanced-technology credits.

(7)Provisions for advanced-technology credits apply as described in 40 CFR 1037.615. If you generate credits from Phase 1 vehicles certified with advanced technology, you may multiply these credits by 1.50. If you generate credits from Phase 2 vehicles certified with advanced technology, you may multiply these credits by 3.5 for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, 4.5 for electric vehicles, and 5.5 for fuel cell vehicles. Advanced-technology credits from Phase 1 vehicles may be used to show compliance with any standards of this part or 40 CFR part 1036 or part 1037, subject to the restrictions in 40 CFR 1037.740. Similarly, you may use up to 60,000 Mg per year of advanced-technology credits generated under 40 CFR 1036.615 or 1037.615 (from Phase 1 vehicles) to demonstrate compliance with the COstandards in this section. Include vehicles generating credits in separate fleet-average calculations (and exclude them from your conventional fleet-average calculation). You must first apply these advanced-technology vehicle credits to any deficits for other vehicles in the averaging set before applying them to other averaging sets.
