
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1819-14 Greenhouse gas emission standards for heavy-duty vehicles.
####### Loose engine sales.

(8)This paragraph (k)(8) applies for model year 2023 and earlier spark-ignition engines with identical hardware compared with engines used in vehicles certified to the standards of this section, where you sell such engines as loose engines or as engines installed in incomplete vehicles that are not cab-complete vehicles. You may include such engines in a test group certified to the standards of this section, subject to the following provisions:

(i) Engines certified under this paragraph (k)(8) are deemed to be certified to the standards of 40 CFR 1036.108 as specified in 40 CFR 1036.150(j).

(ii) For 2020 and earlier model years, the maximum allowable U.S.-directed production volume of engines you sell under this paragraph (k)(8) in any given model year is ten percent of the total U.S-directed production volume of engines of that design that you produce for heavy-duty applications for that model year, including engines you produce for complete vehicles, cab-complete vehicles, and other incomplete vehicles. The total number of engines you may certify under this paragraph (k)(8), of all engine designs, may not exceed 15,000 in any model year. Engines produced in excess of either of these limits are not covered by your certificate. For example, if you produce 80,000 complete model year 2017 Class 2b pickup trucks with a certain engine and 10,000 incomplete model year 2017 Class 3 vehicles with that same engine, and you do not apply the provisions of this paragraph (k)(8) to any other engine designs, you may produce up to 10,000 engines of that design for sale as loose engines under this paragraph (k)(8). If you produced 11,000 engines of that design for sale as loose engines, the last 1,000 of them that you produced in that model year 2017 would be considered uncertified.

(iii) For model years 2021 through 2023, the U.S.-directed production volume of engines you sell under this paragraph (k)(8) in any given model year may not exceed 10,000 units.

(iv) This paragraph (k)(8) does not apply for engines certified to the standards of 40 CFR 1036.108.

(v) Label the engines as specified in 40 CFR 1036.135 including the following compliance statement: "THIS ENGINE WAS CERTIFIED TO THE ALTERNATE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSION STANDARDS OF 40 CFR 1036.150(j)." List the test group name instead of an engine family name.

(vi) Vehicles using engines certified under this paragraph (k)(8) are subject to the emission standards of 40 CFR 1037.105.

(vii) For certification purposes, your engines are deemed to have a COtarget value and test result equal to the COtarget value and test result for the complete vehicle in the applicable test group with the highest equivalent test weight, except as specified in paragraph (k)(8)(vii)(B) of this section. Use these values to calculate your target value, fleet-average emission rate, and in-use emission standard. Where there are multiple complete vehicles with the same highest equivalent test weight, select the COtarget value and test result as follows:

(A) If one or more of the COtest results exceed the applicable target value, use the COtarget value and test result of the vehicle that exceeds its target value by the greatest amount.

(B) If none of the COtest results exceed the applicable target value, select the highest target value and set the test result equal to it. This means that you may not generate emission credits from vehicles certified under this paragraph (k)(8).

(viii) Production and in-use COstandards apply as described in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ix) NO and CHstandards apply as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(x) State in your applications for certification that your test group and engine family will include engines certified under this paragraph (k)(8). This applies for your greenhouse gas vehicle test group and your criteria pollutant engine family. List in each application the name of the corresponding test group/engine family.
