
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1823-01 Durability demonstration procedures for exhaust emissions.
####### Installation of aged components on emission data vehicles.

(ii)For full and intermediate useful life compliance determination, the manufacturer may elect to install aged components on an EDV rather than applying a deterioration factor. Different sets of components may be aged for full and intermediate useful life periods. The list of components to be installed, the techniques used to select physical parts to be aged, and the aging techniques employed to age the components must be approved in advance by the Administrator.

(b) In addition to the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section, manufacturers shall submit the following information when applying for the Administrator's approval of a durability program:

(1) Analysis and/or data demonstrating the adequacy of the manufacturer's durability processes to effectively predict emission compliance for candidate in-use vehicles. All regulated emission constituents and all test procedures shall be considered in this analysis. This data and discussion shall cover the breadth of the manufacturer's product line that will be covered by this durability procedure.

(2) Discussion of the manufacturer's in-use verification procedures including testing performed, vehicle procurement procedures used, and vehicles rejection criteria used. Any questionnaires used or inspections performed should also be documented in the manufacturer's submission. The in-use verification program shall meet the requirements of §§ 86.1845-01, 86.1846-01 and 86.1847-01.
