
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1823-01 Durability demonstration procedures for exhaust emissions.
####### Carryover and carryacross.

(c)(1) Manufacturers may carry over or carry across mileage accumulation data, aged hardware, or deterioration factors according to the provisions of § 86.1839-01 using good engineering judgment.

(2) For the 2001, 2002, and 2003 model years, for light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks the manufacturer may carry over exhaust emission DF's previously generated under the Standard AMA Durability Program described in § 86.094-13(c), the Alternate Service Accumulation Durability Program described in § 86.094-13(e) or the Standard Self-Approval Durability Program for light-duty trucks described in § 86.094-13(f) in lieu of complying with the durability provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(i) This provision is limited to the use of existing data used for a 2000 model year or earlier certification. All new exhaust durability data must be generated according to the provisions of paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(ii) The manufacturer shall exercise good engineering judgment when determining the eligibility to use carryover exhaust emission DF's and the selection of the vehicle used as the source of carryover.

(iii) Starting with the 2004 model year, manufacturers must meet the provisions of paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.
