
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1823-01 Durability demonstration procedures for exhaust emissions.
####### 2

() An additive DF will be calculated to be the difference between the full or intermediate useful life mileage level (as appropriate) minus the stabilized mileage (reference ยง 86.1831-01(c), e.g. 4000-mile) level from the regression analysis. The full useful life regressed emission value, the stabilized mileage regressed emission value, and the DF result shall be rounded to the same precision and using the same procedures as the raw emission results according to the provisions of ยง 86.1837-01. Calculated DF values of less than zero shall be changed to zero for the purposes of this paragraph.

(C) The DF calculated by these procedures will be used for determining compliance with FTP exhaust emission standards, SFTP exhaust emission standards, cold temperature NMHC emission standards, and cold temperature CO emission standards. At the manufacturer's option and using procedures approved by the Administrator, a separate DF may be calculated exclusively using cold temperature CO test data to determine compliance with cold temperature CO emission standards. Similarly, at the manufacturer's option and using procedures approved by the Administrator, a separate DF may be calculated exclusively using cold temperature NMHC test data to determine compliance with cold temperature NMHC emission standards. For determining compliance with full useful life cold temperature NMHC emission standards, the 68-86 &#xB0;F 120,000 mile full useful life NMOG DF may be used. Also at the manufacturer's option and using procedures approved by the Administrator, a separate DF may be calculated exclusively using US06 and/or air conditioning (SC03) test data to determine compliance with the SFTP emission standards.
