
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1823-01 Durability demonstration procedures for exhaust emissions.
####### In-use verification.

(f)The durability program must meet the requirements of § 86.1845-01.

(g) The manufacturer shall apply the approved durability process to a durability group, including durability groups in future model years, if the durability process will effectively predict (or alternatively, overstate) the deterioration of emissions in actual use over the full and intermediate useful life of candidate in-use vehicles. The manufacturer shall use good engineering judgment in determining the applicability of the durability program to a durability group.

(1) The manufacturer may make modifications to an approved durability process using good engineering judgment for the purpose of ensuring that the modified process will effectively predict, (or alternatively, overstate) the deterioration of emissions in actual use over the full and intermediate useful life of candidate in-use vehicles.

(2) The manufacturer shall notify the Administrator of its determination to use an approved (or modified) durability program on particular test groups and durability groups prior to emission data vehicle testing for the affected test groups (preferably at an annual preview meeting scheduled before the manufacturer begins certification activities for the model year).

(3) Prior to certification, the Administrator may reject the manufacturer's determination in paragraph (g) of this section if it is not made using good engineering judgment or it fails to properly consider data collected under the provisions of §§ 86.1845-01, 86.1846-01, and 86.1847-01 or other information if the Administrator determines that the durability process has not been shown to effectively predict emission levels or compliance with the standards in use on candidate vehicles for particular test groups which the manufacturers plan to cover with the durability process.

(h) The Administrator may withdraw approval to use a durability process or require modifications to a durability process based on the data collected under §§ 86.1845-01, 86.1846-01, and 86.1847-01 or other information if the Administrator determines that the durability processes have not been shown to accurately predict emission levels or compliance with the standards (or FEL, as applicable) in use on candidate vehicles (provided the inaccuracy could result in a lack of compliance with the standards for a test group covered by this durability process). Such withdrawals shall apply to future applications for certification and to the portion of the manufacturer's product line (or the entire product line) that the Administrator determines to be affected. Prior to such a withdrawal the Administrator shall give the manufacturer a preliminary notice at least 60 days prior to the final decision. During this period, the manufacturer may submit technical discussion, statistical analyses, additional data, or other information which is relevant to the decision. The Administrator will consider all information submitted by the deadline before reaching a final decision.

(i) Any manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's withdrawal of approval in paragraph (h) of this section. The request shall be in writing and shall include a statement specifying the manufacturer's objections to the Administrator's determinations, and data in support of such objection. If, after review of the request and supporting data, the Administrator finds that the request raises a substantial factual issue, she/he shall provide the manufacturer a hearing in accordance with § 86.1853-01 with respect to such issue.
