
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1823-08 Durability demonstration procedures for exhaust emissions.
####### N,O and CH

(2). (i) For manufacturers complying with the FTP emission standards for NO and CHspecified in § 86.1818-12(f)(1) or determined under § 86.1818-12(f)(3), FTP-based deterioration factors for NO and CHshall be determined according to the provisions of paragraphs (a) through (l) of this section.

(ii) For manufacturers complying with the fleet averaging option for NO and CHas allowed under § 86.1818-12(f)(2), deterioration factors based on FTP testing shall be determined and may be used to determine full useful life emissions for the FTP and HFET tests. The manufacturer may at its option determine separate deterioration factors for the FTP and HFET test cycles, in which case each FTP test performed on the durability data vehicle selected under § 86.1822 of this part must also be accompanied by an HFET test.

(iii) For the 2012 through 2016 model years only, manufacturers may use alternative deterioration factors. For NO, the alternative deterioration factor to be used to adjust FTP and HFET emissions is the deterioration factor determined for (or derived from, using good engineering judgment) NOemissions according to the provisions of this section. For CH, the alternative deterioration factor to be used to adjust FTP and HFET emissions is the deterioration factor determined for (or derived from, using good engineering judgment) NMOG or NMHC emissions according to the provisions of this section.
