
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1823-08 Durability demonstration procedures for exhaust emissions.
####### Durability demonstration procedures for vehicles subject to the greenhouse gas exhaust emission standards specified in ยง 86.1818.,CO

(m)Determine a deterioration factor for each exhaust constituent as described in this paragraph (m) and in 40 CFR 600.113-12(h) through (m) to calculate the composite CREE DF value. (1)(i) Unless otherwise specified under paragraph (m)(1)(ii) or (iii) of this section, manufacturers may use a multiplicative COdeterioration factor of one or an additive deterioration factor of zero to determine full useful life emissions for the FTP and HFET tests.

(ii) Based on an analysis of industry-wide data, EPA may periodically establish and/or update the deterioration factor for COemissions, including air conditioning and other credit-related emissions. Deterioration factors established and/or updated under this paragraph (m)(1)(ii) will provide adequate lead time for manufacturers to plan for the change.

(iii) For plug-in hybrid electric vehicles and any other vehicle model the manufacturer determines will experience increased COemissions over the vehicle's useful life, consistent with good engineering judgment, manufacturers must either install aged batteries and other relevant components on test vehicles as provided in paragraph (f)(2) of this section, determine a deterioration factor based on testing, or provide an engineering analysis that the vehicle is designed such that COemissions will not increase over the vehicle's useful life. Manufacturers may test using the whole-vehicle mileage accumulation procedures in ยง 86.1823-08 (c) or (d)(1), or manufacturers may request prior EPA approval for an alternative durability procedure based on good engineering judgment. For the testing option, each FTP test performed on the durability data vehicle selected under ยง 86.1822 must also be accompanied by an HFET test, and combined FTP/HFET COresults determined by averaging the city (FTP) and highway (HFET) CO2 values, weighted 0.55 and 0.45 respectively. The deterioration factor will be determined for this combined COvalue. Calculated multiplicative deterioration factors that are less than one shall be set to equal one, and calculated additive deterioration factors that are less than zero shall be set to zero.
