
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1825-01 Durability demonstration procedures for refueling emissions.
####### Vehicle/component selection method.

(b)The manufacturer shall determine a vehicle and component selection procedure which results in representative test vehicles and reflects good engineering judgment.

(c) The manufacturer shall calculate a deterioration factor which is applied to the refueling emission results of the emission data vehicles. The deterioration factor shall be based on a linear regression, or an other regression technique approved in advance by the Administrator. The DF will be calculated to be the difference between the full life mileage refueling loss emission level minus the stabilized mileage (e.g., 4000-mile) refueling loss emission level from the regression analysis. The DF and the full and stabilized mileage emission levels shall be rounded to two decimal places of accuracy in accordance with the Rounding-Off Method specified in ASTM E29-93a, Standard Practice for Using Significant Digits in Test Data to Determine Conformance with Specifications (incorporated by reference, see ยง 86.1(b)(1). Calculated DF values of less than zero shall be changed to zero for the purposes of this paragraph.

(d) The durability process described in paragraph (a) of this section must be described in the application for certification under the provisions of ยง 86.1844-01.
