
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1829-01 Durability and emission testing requirements; waivers.
####### Data submittal waivers.

(iii)(A) In lieu of testing a methanol-fueled diesel-cycle light truck for particulate emissions a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that such light trucks comply with the applicable standards. Such a statement shall be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information and good engineering judgment.

(B) In lieu of testing an Otto-cycle light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, or heavy-duty vehicle for particulate emissions for certification, a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that such vehicles comply with the applicable standards. Such a statement must be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information and good engineering judgment.

(C) [Reserved]

(D) A manufacturer may petition the Administrator to waive the requirement to measure particulate emissions when conducting Selective Enforcement Audit testing of Otto-cycle vehicles.

(E) In lieu of testing a gasoline, diesel, natural gas, liquefied petroleum gas, or hydrogen fueled Tier 2 or interim non-Tier 2 vehicle for formaldehyde emissions when such vehicles are certified based upon NMHC emissions, a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that such vehicles comply with the applicable standards. Such a statement must be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information and good engineering judgment.

(F) In lieu of testing a petroleum-, natural gas-, liquefied petroleum gas-, or hydrogen-fueled heavy-duty vehicle for formaldehyde emissions for certification, a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that such vehicles comply with the applicable standards. Such a statement must be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information and good engineering judgment.

(G) For the 2012 through 2016 model years, in lieu of testing a vehicle for NO emissions, a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that such vehicles comply with the applicable standards. Such a statement may also be used for 2017 and 2018 model year vehicles only if the application for certification for those vehicles is based upon data carried over from a prior model year, as allowed under this subpart. No 2019 and later model year vehicles may be waived from testing for NO emissions. Such a statement must be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information and good engineering judgment. Vehicles certified to NO standards using a compliance statement in lieu of submitting test data are not required to collect and submit NO emission data under the in-use verification testing requirements of ยง 86.1845.
