
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1828-01 Emission data vehicle selection.
####### Evaporative/Refueling testing.

(b)Vehicles of each evaporative/refueling family will be divided into evaporative/refueling emission control systems.

(1) The vehicle configuration expected to exhibit the highest evaporative and/or refueling emission on candidate in-use vehicles shall be selected for each evaporative/refueling family and evaporative refueling emission system combination from among the corresponding vehicles selected for FTP and SFTP testing under paragraph (a) of this section. Separate vehicles may be selected to be tested for evaporative and refueling testing.

(2) Each test group must be represented by both evaporative and refueling testing (provided that the refueling standards are applicable) before it may be certified. That required testing may have been conducted on a vehicle in another test group provided the tested vehicle is a member of the same evaporative/refueling family and evaporative/refueling emission system combination and it was selected for testing in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(3) For evaporative/refueling emission testing, the vehicle(s) selected shall be equipped with the worst-case evaporative/refueling emission hardware available on that vehicle considering such items as canister size and material, fuel tank size and material, purge strategy and flow rates, refueling characteristics, and amount of vapor generation.
