
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1829-01 Durability and emission testing requirements; waivers.
####### Testing at high altitude.

(ii)For high-altitude evaporative and/or refueling emission compliance for each evaporative/refueling family, the manufacturer shall follow one of the following two procedures:

(A) One EDV in each evaporative/refueling family and evaporative/refueling emission control system combination shall be tested in accordance with the evaporative/refueling test procedure requirement of subpart B of this part. The configuration of the EDV will be determined under the provisions of ยง 86.1824-01. The EDV must also be tested for exhaust emissions using the FTP procedures of subpart B of this part while operated at high altitude; or

(B) In lieu of testing vehicles according to the provisions of paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, a manufacturer may provide a statement in its application for certification that, based on the manufacturer's engineering evaluation of such high-altitude emission testing as the manufacturer deems appropriate, all light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, and complete heavy-duty vehicles comply with the emission standards at high altitude.

(iii) Optional waiver of two-diurnal evaporative certification test for gasoline- and ethanol-fueled vehicles. In lieu of testing gasoline-fueled and ethanol-fueled vehicles for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence according to the provisions of paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section, a manufacturer may optionally provide a statement of compliance in its application for certification that, based on the manufacturer's good engineering judgement, all light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks and complete heavy-duty vehicles in the applicable evaporative/refueling emission family comply with the evaporative emission standard for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence.

(A) The option to provide a statement of compliance in lieu of 2-diurnal evaporative certification test data outlined in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section is limited to vehicles with conventional evaporative emission control systems (as determined by the Administrator). This option may be used for vehicles in evaporative/refueling families which are certified to the applicable two-diurnal, three-diurnal, running loss, and refueling emission standards. EPA may perform confirmatory 2-diurnal evaporative emission testing on certification test vehicles which are certified using this option (even though the manufacturer may not have performed a 2-diurnal evaporative test during the certification process). If data shows noncompliance, noncompliance will be addressed through 86.1851. As well, if data shows noncompliance, EPA may not normally allow for subsequent waivers for the applicable evaporative family.

(B) Manufacturers shall supply information if requested by EPA in support of the statement of compliance outlined in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section. This information shall include evaporative calibration information for the emission-data test vehicle and for other vehicles in the evaporative/refueling family, including, but not limited to, canister type, canister volume, canister working capacity, fuel tank volume, fuel tank geometry, the type of fuel delivery system (return, returnless, variable flow fuel pump, etc.), a description of the input parameters and software strategy used to control the evaporative canister purge, the nominal purge flow volume (in bed volumes) when vehicles are driven over the 2-diurnal (FTP) driving cycle, the nominal purge flow volume (in bed volumes) when vehicles are driven over the 3-diurnal (FTP + running loss) driving cycle, and other supporting information as necessary to demonstrate that the purge flow rate calibration on the 2-diurnal test sequence is adequate to comply with the evaporative emission standard for the supplemental two-diurnal test sequence.

(iv) For diesel-fueled light-duty vehicles, a manufacturer may provide a statement in the application for certification that vehicles comply with the refueling emission standard instead of submitting test data. Such a statement must be based on previous emission tests, development tests, or other appropriate information, and good engineering judgment.
