
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1830-01 Acceptance of vehicles for emission testing.
####### General test vehicle requirements.

(a)(1) All test vehicles shall be tested in the proper configurations as specified in § 86.1822-01, § 86.1828-01, or § 86.1842-01, as applicable for the type of test conducted.

(2) Components affecting emissions which are used to build test vehicles shall either be randomly selected production parts or parts verified to be in the middle 50 percent of the tolerance range. The manufacturer will determine which components affect emissions using good engineering judgment.

(3) Test vehicles must have air conditioning installed and operational if that configuration is available with air conditioning. Optional equipment must be installed or represented on test vehicles according to the provisions of § 86.1832-01.

(4) Test vehicles must receive proper scheduled maintenance as established by the manufacturer according to the provisions of § 86.1834-01(b) or (c). Unscheduled maintenance must be approved under the provisions of § 86.1834-01(d).

(5) Vehicle mileage shall be accumulated in accordance with § 86.1831-01.

(6) The road load forces and equivalent test weight used during testing will be determined according to the provisions of § 86.129-00.

(7) Test vehicles shall have the appropriate emission testing hardware installed (e.g., exhaust pipe testing flange, fuel tank drain, access ports to evaporative canisters, and fuel tank heat blanket) and shall have tires with appropriate tire wear.
