
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1834-01 Allowable maintenance.
####### Unscheduled maintenance on durability data vehicles.

(d)(1) Unscheduled maintenance may be performed during the testing used to determine deterioration factors, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (3) of this section, only under the following provisions defined in paragraphs (d)(1) (i) through (iii) of this section:

(i) A fuel injector or spark plug may be changed if a persistent misfire is detected.

(ii) Readjustment of an Otto-cycle vehicle cold-start enrichment system may be performed if there is a problem of stalling.

(iii) Readjustment of the engine idle speed (curb idle and fast idle) may be performed in addition to that performed as scheduled maintenance under paragraph (c) of this section if the idle speed exceeds the manufacturer's recommended idle speed by 300 rpm or more, or if there is a problem of stalling.

(2) Any other unscheduled vehicle, emission control system, or fuel system adjustment, repair, removal, disassembly, cleaning, or replacement during testing to determine deterioration factors shall be performed (using good engineering judgment) only in the following circumstances:

(i) The part failure or system malfunction, or the repair of such failure or malfunction, does not render the vehicle or engine unrepresentative of vehicles or engines in use and does not require direct access to the combustion chamber, except for spark plug, fuel injection component, or removable prechamber removal or replacement.

(ii) The need for maintenance or repairs is indicated by an overt indication of malfunction such as persistent misfiring, engine stalling, overheating, fluid leakage, loss of oil pressure, excessive fuel consumption, or excessive power loss. The Administrator shall be given the opportunity to verify the existence of an overt indication of part failure and/or vehicle/engine malfunction (e.g., misfiring, stalling, black smoke), or an activation of an audible and/or visible signal, prior to the performance of any maintenance to which such overt indication or signal is relevant under the provisions of this section.

(iii) The OBD system of a durability data vehicle representing any test group certifying fully to the Federal OBD requirements as specified in ยง 86.1806-01(a) through (h) has specifically detected the problem and has illuminated the malfunction indicator light.

(3) Emission measurement may not be used as a means of determining the need for unscheduled maintenance under paragraph (d)(2) of this section, except under the following conditions:

(i) The Administrator may approve unscheduled maintenance on durability data vehicles based upon a significant change in emission levels that indicates a vehicle or engine malfunction. In these cases the Administrator may first approve specific diagnostic procedures to identify the source of the problem. The Administrator may further approve of specific corrections to the problem after the problem has been identified. The Administrator may only approve the corrective action after it is determined that:

(A) The malfunction was caused by nonproduction build practices or by a previously undetected design problem;

(B) The malfunction will not occur in production vehicles or engines in use; and

(C) The deterioration factor generated by the durability data vehicle or engine will remain unaffected by the malfunction or by the corrective action (e.g., the malfunction was present for only a short period of time before detection, replacement parts are functionally representative of the proper mileage or hours, etc.).

(ii) Following any unscheduled maintenance approved under paragraph (d)(3)(i) of this section, the manufacturer shall perform an after-maintenance emission test. If the Administrator determines that the after-maintenance emission levels for any pollutant indicates that the deterioration factor is no longer representative of production, the Administrator may disqualify the durability data vehicle or engine.

(4) If a part failure or system malfunction occurrence and/or repair has rendered the vehicle/engine unrepresentative of vehicles in use, the vehicle/engine shall not be used for determining deterioration factors.

(5) Repairs to vehicle components of a durability data vehicle other than the engine, emission control system, or fuel system, shall be performed only as a result of part failure, vehicle system malfunction, or with the advance approval of the Administrator.
