
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1834-01 Allowable maintenance.
####### Changes to scheduled maintenance.

(7)(i) For maintenance practices that existed prior to the 1980 model year, only the maintenance items listed in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section are currently considered by EPA to be emission-related. The Administrator may, however, determine additional scheduled maintenance items that existed prior to the 1980 model year to be emission-related by announcement in aNotice. In no event may this notification occur later than September 1 of the calendar year two years prior to the affected model year.

(ii) In the case of any new scheduled maintenance, the manufacturer must submit a request for approval to the Administrator for any maintenance that it wishes to recommend to purchasers and perform during durability determination. New scheduled maintenance is that maintenance which did not exist prior to the 1980 model year, including that which is a direct result of the implementation of new technology not found in production prior to the 1980 model year. The manufacturer must also include its recommendations as to the category (i.e., emission-related or non-emission-related, critical or non-critical) of the subject maintenance and, for suggested emission-related maintenance, the maximum feasible maintenance interval. Such requests must include detailed evidence supporting the need for the maintenance requested, and supporting data or other substantiation for the recommended maintenance category and for the interval suggested for emission-related maintenance. Requests for new scheduled maintenance must be approved prior to the introduction of the new maintenance. The Administrator will then designate the maintenance as emission-related or non-emission-related. For maintenance items established as emission-related, the Administrator will further designate the maintenance as critical if the component which receives the maintenance is a critical component under paragraph (b)(6) of this section. For each maintenance item designated as emission-related, the Administrator will also establish a technologically necessary maintenance interval, based on industry data and any other information available to EPA. Designations of emission-related maintenance items, along with their identification as critical or non-critical, and establishment of technologically necessary maintenance intervals, will be announced in the

(iii) Any manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's determinations in this paragraph (b)(7). The request shall be in writing and shall include a statement specifying the manufacturer's objections to the Administrator's determinations, and data in support of such objections. If, after review of the request and supporting data, the Administrator finds that the request raises a substantial factual issue, he shall provide the manufacturer a hearing in accordance with ยง 86.1853-01 with respect to such issue.

(c) Non-emission-related scheduled maintenance which is reasonable and technologically necessary (e.g., oil change, oil filter change, fuel filter change, air filter change, cooling system maintenance, adjustment of idle speed, governor, engine bolt torque, valve lash, injector lash, timing, adjustment of air pump drive belt tension, lubrication of the exhaust manifold heat control valve, lubrication of carburetor choke linkage, re-torquing carburetor mounting bolts, etc.) may be performed on durability data vehicles at the least frequent intervals recommended by the manufacturer to the ultimate purchaser, (e.g., not at the intervals recommended for severe service).
