
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1834-01 Allowable maintenance.

(a) Maintenance performed on vehicles, engines, subsystems, or components used to determine exhaust, evaporative or refueling emission deterioration factors, as appropriate, is classified as either emission-related or non-emission-related and each of these can be classified as either scheduled or unscheduled. Further, some emission-related maintenance is also classified as critical emission-related maintenance.

(b) This section specifies emission-related scheduled maintenance for purposes of obtaining durability data and for inclusion in maintenance instructions furnished to purchasers of new motor vehicles and under ยง 86.1808-01.

(1) All emission-related scheduled maintenance for purposes of obtaining durability data must occur at the same mileage intervals (or equivalent intervals if engines, subsystems, or components are used) that will be specified in the manufacturer's maintenance instructions furnished to the ultimate purchaser of the motor vehicle or engine under ยง 86.1808-01. This maintenance schedule may be updated as necessary throughout the testing of the vehicle/engine, provided that no maintenance operation is deleted from the maintenance schedule after the operation has been performed on the test vehicle or engine.

(2) Any emission-related maintenance which is performed on vehicles, engines, subsystems, or components must be technologically necessary to assure in-use compliance with the emission standards. Manufacturers shall determine the technological need for maintenance using good engineering judgment. The Administrator has determined that emission-related maintenance at shorter intervals than those outlined in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section is not technologically necessary to ensure in-use compliance. However, the Administrator may determine that maintenance even more restrictive (e.g., longer intervals) than that listed in paragraphs (b)(3) and (4) of this section is also not technologically necessary.

(3) Emission-related maintenance in addition to, or at shorter intervals than, that listed in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section will not be accepted as technologically necessary, except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(i)(A) The cleaning or replacement of light-duty vehicle or light-duty truck spark plugs shall occur at 30,000 miles of use and at 30,000-mile intervals thereafter.

(B) The cleaning or replacement of complete heavy-duty vehicle spark plugs shall occur at 25,000 miles (or 750 hours) of use and at 30,000-mile (or 750 hour) intervals thereafter, for vehicles certified for use with unleaded fuel only.

(ii) For light-duty vehicles and light-duty trucks, the adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of the following items shall occur at 50,000 miles of use and at 50,000-mile intervals thereafter:

(A) Positive crankcase ventilation valve.

(B) Emission-related hoses and tubes.

(C) Ignition wires.

(D) Idle mixture.

(iii) For complete heavy-duty vehicles, the adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of the following items shall occur at 50,000 miles (or 1,500 hours) of use and at 50,000-mile (1,500 hour) intervals thereafter:

(A) Positive crankcase ventilation valve.

(B) Emission-related hoses and tubes.

(C) Ignition wires.

(D) Idle mixture.

(E) Exhaust gas recirculation system related filters and coolers.

(iv) For light-duty trucks, light-duty vehicles, and complete heavy-duty vehicles, the adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of the oxygen sensor shall occur at 80,000 miles (or 2,400 hours) of use and at 80,000-mile (or 2,400-hour) intervals thereafter.

(v) For light-duty trucks and light-duty vehicles, the adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of the following items shall occur at 100,000 miles of use and at 100,000-mile intervals thereafter:

(A) Catalytic converter.

(B) Air injection system components.

(C) Fuel injectors.

(D) Electronic engine control unit and its associated sensors (except oxygen sensor) and actuators.

(E) Evaporative and/or refueling emission canister(s).

(F) Turbochargers.

(G) Carburetors.

(H) Superchargers.

(I) Exhaust gas recirculation system including all related filters and control valves.

(J) Mechanical fillpipe seals.

(vi) For complete heavy-duty vehicles, the adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of the following items shall occur at 100,000 miles (or 3,000 hours) of use and at 100,000-mile (or 3,000 hour) intervals thereafter:

(A) Catalytic converter.

(B) Air injection system components.

(C) Fuel injectors.

(D) Electronic engine control unit and its associated sensors (except oxygen sensor) and actuators.

(E) Evaporative and/or refueling emission canister(s).

(F) Turbochargers.

(G) Carburetors.

(H) Exhaust gas recirculation system (including all related control valves and tubing) except as otherwise provided in paragraph (b)(3)(iii)(E) of this section.

(I) Mechanical fillpipe seals.

(4) For diesel-cycle vehicles, emission-related maintenance in addition to, or at shorter intervals than the following will not be accepted as technologically necessary, except as provided in paragraph (b)(7) of this section:

(i) The adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement of the positive crankcase ventilation valve shall occur at 50,000 miles of use and at 50,000-mile intervals thereafter.

(ii) The adjustment, cleaning, repair, or replacement shall occur at 100,000 miles of use and at 100,000-mile intervals thereafter of the following items:

(A) Fuel injectors.

(B) Turbocharger.

(C) Electronic engine control unit and its associated sensors and actuators.

(D) Particulate trap or trap-oxidizer system (including related components).

(E) Exhaust gas recirculation system including all related filters and control valves.

(F) Catalytic converter.

(G) Superchargers.

(iii) For vehicles that use selective catalytic reduction, the replenishment of diesel exhaust fluid shall occur at an interval that is no less than 4,000 miles for typical operation.

(5) [Reserved]
