
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1832-01 Optional equipment and air conditioning for test vehicles.

For test vehicles selected under §§ 86.1822-01 and 86.1828-01:

(a)(1) Where it is expected that more than 33 percent of a car line, within a test group, will be equipped with an item (whether that item is standard equipment or an option), the full estimated weight of that item must be included in the curb weight computation for each vehicle available with that item in that car line, within that test group.

(2) Where it is expected that 33 percent or less of the car line, within a test group, will be equipped with an item (whether that item is standard equipment or an option), no weight for that item will be added in computing the curb weight for any vehicle in that car line, within that test group, unless that item is standard equipment on the vehicle.

(3) In the case of mutually exclusive options, only the weight of the heavier option will be added in computing the curb weight.

(4) Optional equipment weighing less than three pounds per item need not be considered.

(b)(1) Where it is expected that more than 33 percent of a car line, within a test group, will be equipped with an item (whether that item is standard equipment or an option) that can reasonably be expected to influence emissions, then such items must actually be installed (unless excluded under paragraph (b)(2) of this section) on all emission data and durability data vehicles of that car line, within that test group, on which the items are intended to be offered in production. Items that can reasonably be expected to influence emissions include, but are not limited to: air conditioning, power steering, and power brakes.

(2) If the manufacturer determines by test data or engineering evaluation that the actual installation of the optional equipment required by paragraph (b)(1) of this section does not affect the emissions or fuel economy values, the optional equipment need not be installed on the test vehicle.

(3) The weight of the options must be included in the design curb weight and must also be represented in the weight of the test vehicles.

(4) The engineering evaluation, including any test data, used to support the deletion of optional equipment from test vehicles, shall be maintained by the manufacturer and be made available to the Agency upon request by the Administrator within 15 business days.

(c) Except for air conditioning, where it is expected that 33 percent or less of a car line, within a test group, will be equipped with an item (whether that item is standard equipment or an option) that can reasonably be expected to influence emissions, that item may not be installed on any emission data vehicle or durability data vehicle of that car line within that test group, unless that item is standard equipment on that vehicle or specifically required by the Administrator.

(d) Air conditioning must be installed and operational on any emission data vehicle of any vehicle configuration that is projected to be available with air conditioning regardless of the rate of installation of air conditioning within the car line. Paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section will be used to determine whether the weight of the air conditioner will be included in the equivalent test weight calculations for emission testing.
