
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1831-01 Mileage accumulation requirements for test vehicles.
####### Emission data vehicles and running change vehicles.

(b)(1) The standard method of mileage accumulation for emission data vehicles and running change vehicles is mileage accumulation using either the Standard Road Cycle specified in appendix V to this part or the Durability Driving Schedule specified in appendix IV to this part.

(2) The manufacturer may use an alternative mileage accumulation method providing the form and extent of the service accumulation represents normal driving patterns for that vehicle, the method is consistent with good engineering judgment, and the method is described in the application for certification.

(3) Except with the advance approval of the Administrator, all vehicles will accumulate mileage at a measured curb weight which is within 100 pounds of the estimated curb weight. If the loaded vehicle weight is within 100 pounds of being included in the next higher inertia weight class as specified in ยง 86.129, the manufacturer may elect to conduct the respective emission tests at higher loaded vehicle weight.

(c) The manufacturer shall determine the mileage at which the emission control system and engine combination is stabilized for emission-data testing. The manufacturer shall provide to the Administrator if requested, a record of the analysis used in making this determination. The manufacturer may elect to accumulate 2,000 miles (3,219 kilometers) or more on each test vehicle without making a determination. The manufacturer must accumulate a minimum of 1,000 miles (1,608 kilometers) on each emission data vehicle.

(d) All test vehicle mileage must be accurately determined, recorded, and reported to the Administrator upon request.
