
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1834-01 Allowable maintenance.
####### Critical emission-related components.

(6)(i) The following components are defined as critical emission-related components:

(A) Catalytic converter.

(B) Air injection system components.

(C) Electronic engine control unit and its associated sensors (including oxygen sensor if installed) and actuators.

(D) Exhaust gas recirculation system (including all related filters and control valves).

(E) Positive crankcase ventilation valve.

(F) Evaporative and refueling emission control system components (excluding canister air filter).

(G) Particulate trap or trap-oxidizer system.

(H) Components comprising the selective catalytic reduction system (including diesel exhaust fluid tank).

(I) Any other component whose primary purpose is to reduce emissions or whose failure would commonly increase emissions of any regulated pollutant without significantly degrading engine performance.

(ii) All critical emission-related scheduled maintenance must have a reasonable likelihood of being performed in-use. The manufacturer shall be required to show the reasonable likelihood of such maintenance being performed in-use, and such showing shall be made prior to the performance of the maintenance on the durability data vehicle. Critical emission-related scheduled maintenance items which satisfy one of the conditions defined in paragraphs (b)(6)(ii) (A) through (F) of this section will be accepted as having a reasonable likelihood of the maintenance item being performed in-use, except that DEF replenishment must satisfy paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(A) or (b)(6)(ii)(F) of this section to be accepted as having a reasonable likelihood of the maintenance item being performed in-use.

(A) Data are presented which establish for the Administrator a connection between emissions and vehicle performance such that as emissions increase due to lack of maintenance, vehicle performance will simultaneously deteriorate to a point unacceptable for typical driving.

(B) Survey data are submitted which adequately demonstrate to the Administrator that, at an 80 percent confidence level, 80 percent of such engines already have this critical maintenance item performed in use at the recommended interval(s).

(C) A clearly displayed visible signal system approved by the Administrator is installed to alert the vehicle driver that maintenance is due. A signal bearing the message "maintenance needed" or "check engine," or a similar message approved by the Administrator, shall be actuated at the appropriate mileage point or by component failure. This signal must be continuous while the engine is in operation and not be easily eliminated without performance of the required maintenance. Resetting the signal shall be a required step in the maintenance operation. The method for resetting the signal system shall be approved by the Administrator.

(D) A manufacturer may desire to demonstrate through a survey that a critical maintenance item is likely to be performed without a visible signal on a maintenance item for which there is no prior in-use experience without the signal. To that end, the manufacturer may in a given model year market up to 200 randomly selected vehicles per critical emission-related maintenance item without such visible signals, and monitor the performance of the critical maintenance item by the owners to show compliance with paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(B) of this section. This option is restricted to two consecutive model years and may not be repeated until any previous survey has been completed. If the critical maintenance involves more than one test group, the sample will be sales weighted to ensure that it is representative of all the groups in question.

(E) The manufacturer provides the maintenance free of charge, and clearly informs the customer that the maintenance is free in the instructions provided under ยง 86.1808-01.

(F) Any other method which the Administrator approves as establishing a reasonable likelihood that the critical maintenance will be performed in use.

(iii) Visible signal systems used under paragraph (b)(6)(ii)(C) of this section are considered an element of design of the emission control system. Therefore, disabling, resetting, or otherwise rendering such signals inoperative without also performing the indicated maintenance procedure is a prohibited act under section 203(a)(3) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7522(a)(3)).
