
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1835-01 Confirmatory certification testing.
####### Testing by the Administrator.

(a)(1) The Administrator may require that any one or more of the test vehicles be submitted to the Agency, at such place or places as the Agency may designate, for the purposes of conducting emissions tests. The Administrator may specify that such testing be conducted at the manufacturer's facility, in which case instrumentation and equipment specified by the Administrator shall be made available by the manufacturer for test operations. Any testing conducted at a manufacturer's facility pursuant to this paragraph shall be scheduled by the manufacturer as promptly as possible.

(i) The Administrator may adjust or cause to be adjusted any adjustable parameter of an emission-data vehicle which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment for certification testing in accordance with § 86.1833-01(a)(1), to any setting within the physically adjustable range of that parameter, as determined by the Administrator in accordance with § 86.1833-01(a)(3), prior to the performance of any tests to determine whether such vehicle or engine conforms to applicable emission standards, including tests performed by the manufacturer under § 86.1829-01(b). However, if the idle speed parameter is one which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment, the Administrator shall not adjust it to a setting which causes a higher engine idle speed than would have been possible within the physically adjustable range of the idle speed parameter on the engine before it accumulated any dynamometer service, all other parameters being identically adjusted for the purpose of the comparison. The Administrator, in making or specifying such adjustments, will consider the effect of the deviation from the manufacturer's recommended setting on emissions performance characteristics as well as the likelihood that similar settings will occur on in-use light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, or complete heavy-duty vehicles. In determining likelihood, the Administrator will consider factors such as, but not limited to, the effect of the adjustment on vehicle performance characteristics and surveillance information from similar in-use vehicles.

(ii) For those vehicles parameters which the Administrator has not determined to be subject to adjustment during testing in accordance with § 86.1833-01(a)(1), the vehicle presented to the Administrator for testing shall be calibrated within the production tolerances applicable to the manufacturer's specifications to be shown on the vehicle label (see § 86.1807-01) as specified in the application for certification. If the Administrator determines that a vehicle is not within such tolerances, the vehicle will be adjusted, at the facility designated by the Administrator, prior to the test and an engineering report shall be submitted to the Administrator describing the corrective action taken. Based on the engineering report, the Administrator will determine if the vehicle will be used as an emission data vehicle.

(2) If the Administrator determines that the test data developed on an emission data vehicle under paragraph (a)(1) of this section would cause that vehicle to fail under the provisions of § 86.1841-01, then the following procedure shall be observed:

(i) The manufacturer may request a retest. Before the retest, those vehicle or engine parameters which the Administrator has not determined to be subject to adjustment for certification testing in accordance with § 86.1833-01(a)(1) may be readjusted to manufacturer's specification, if these adjustments were made incorrectly prior to the first test. The Administrator may adjust or cause to be adjusted any parameter which the Administrator has determined to be subject to adjustment to any setting within the physically adjustable range of that parameter, as determined by the Administrator in accordance with § 86.1833-01(a)(3). Other maintenance or repairs may be performed in accordance with § 86.1834-01. All work on the vehicle shall be done at such location and under such conditions as the Administrator may prescribe.

(ii) The vehicle will be retested by the Administrator and the results of this test shall comprise the official data for the emission-data vehicle.

(3) If sufficient durability data are not available at the time of any emission test conducted under paragraph (a)(1) of this section to enable the Administrator to determine whether an emission-data vehicle would fail, the manufacturer may request a retest in accordance with the provisions of paragraph (a)(2) of this section. If the manufacturer does not promptly make such request, he shall be deemed to have waived the right to a retest. A request for retest must be made before the manufacturer removes the vehicle from the test premises.

(4) Retesting for fuel economy reasons or for compliance with greenhouse gas exhaust emission standards in § 86.181-12 may be conducted under the provisions of § 600.008-08 of this chapter.
