
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1834-01 Allowable maintenance.
####### Maintenance on emission data vehicles and engines.

(e)(1) Adjustment of engine idle speed on emission data vehicles may be performed once before the low-mileage/low-hour emission test point. Any other engine, emission control system, or fuel system adjustment, repair, removal, disassembly, cleaning, or replacement on emission data vehicles shall be performed only with the advance approval of the Administrator.

(2) Repairs to vehicle components of an emission data vehicle other than the engine, emission control system, or fuel system, shall be performed only as a result of part failure, vehicle system malfunction, or with the advance approval of the Administrator.

(f) Equipment, instruments, or tools may not be used to identify malfunctioning, maladjusted, or defective engine components unless the same or equivalent equipment, instruments, or tools will be available to dealerships and other service outlets and:

(1) Are used in conjunction with scheduled maintenance on such components; or

(2) Are used subsequent to the identification of a vehicle or engine malfunction, as provided in paragraph (d)(2) of this section for durability data vehicles or in paragraph (e)(1) of this section for emission data vehicles; or

(3) Unless specifically authorized by the Administrator.

(g) Complete emission tests (see §§ 86.106-96 through 86.145-82) are required, unless waived by the Administrator, before and after scheduled maintenance approved for durability data vehicles. The manufacturer may perform emission tests before unscheduled maintenance. Complete emission tests are required after unscheduled maintenance which may reasonably be expected to affect emissions. The Administrator may waive the requirement to test after unscheduled maintenance. These test data may be submitted weekly to the Administrator, but shall be air posted or delivered within 7 days after completion of the tests, along with a complete record of all pertinent maintenance, including a preliminary engineering report of any malfunction diagnosis and the corrective action taken. A complete engineering report shall be delivered to the Administrator concurrently with the manufacturer's application for certification.

(h) When air conditioning SFTP exhaust emission tests are required, the manufacturer must document that the vehicle's air conditioning system is operating properly and in a representative condition. Required air conditioning system maintenance is performed as unscheduled maintenance and does not require the Administrator's approval.
