
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1838-01 Small-volume manufacturer certification procedures.
####### Eligibility requirements,Small-volume manufacturers.

(b)-(1)(i) Optional small-volume manufacturer certification procedures apply for vehicles produced by manufacturers with the following number of combined sales of vehicles subject to standards under this subpart in all states and territories of the United States in the model year for which certification is sought, including all vehicles and engines imported under the provisions of 40 CFR 85.1505 and 85.1509:

(A) 5,000 units for the Tier 3 standards described in §§ 86.1811, 86.1813, and 86.1816. This volume threshold applies for phasing in the Tier 3 standards and for determining the corresponding deterioration factors. This is based on average nationwide sales volumes for model years 2012 through 2014 for manufacturers that sell vehicles in model year 2012. The provision allowing delayed compliance with the Tier 3 standards applies for qualifying companies even if sales after model year 2014 increase beyond 5,000 units. Manufacturers with no sales in model year 2012 may instead rely on projected sales volumes; however, if nationwide sales exceed an average value of 5,000 units in any three consecutive model years, the manufacturer is no longer eligible for provisions that apply to small-volume manufacturers after two additional model years. For example, if actual sales in model years 2015 through 2017 exceed 5,000 units, the small-volume provisions would no longer apply starting in model year 2020.

(B) No small-volume sales threshold applies for the heavy-duty greenhouse gas standards; alternative small-volume criteria apply as described in § 86.1819-14(k)(5).

(C) 15,000 units for all other requirements. See § 86.1845 for separate provisions that apply for in-use testing.

(ii) If a manufacturer's aggregated sales in the United States, as determined in paragraph (b)(3) of this section are fewer than the number of units specified in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section, the manufacturer (or each manufacturer in the case of manufacturers in an aggregated relationship) may certify under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section.

(iii) A manufacturer that qualifies as a small business under the Small Business Administration regulations in 13 CFR Part 121 is eligible for all the provisions that apply for small-volume manufacturers under this subpart. See § 86.1801-12(j) to determine whether companies qualify as small businesses.

(iv) The sales volumes specified in this section are based on actual sales, unless otherwise specified.

(v) Except for delayed implementation of new emission standards, an eligible manufacturer must transition out of the special provisions that apply for small-volume manufacturers as described in § 86.1801-12(k)(2)(i) through (iii) if sales volumes increase above the applicable threshold.
