
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1835-01 Confirmatory certification testing.
####### Official test determination.

(c)(1) Whenever the Administrator or the manufacturer conducts a confirmatory test segment on a test vehicle, the results of that test segment, unless subsequently invalidated by the Administrator, shall comprise the official data for that test segment for the vehicle at the prescribed test point and the manufacturer's original test data for that test segment for that prescribed test point shall not be used in determining compliance with emission standards.

(i) If the Administrator or the manufacturer conducts more than one passing, valid, confirmatory test, the results from the first passing, valid confirmatory test shall be considered official and used in determining compliance with emission standards.

(ii) Official test results for fuel economy and exhaust COemission purposes are determined in accordance with the provisions of ยง 600.008-08 of this chapter.

(iii) The Administrator may stop a test after any evaporative test segment and use as official data any valid results obtained up to that point in the test, as described in subpart B of this part.

(2) Whenever the Administrator or the manufacturer does not conduct a confirmatory test on a test vehicle at a test point, the manufacturer's original test data will be accepted as the official data for that point.

(i) If the Administrator makes a determination based on testing under paragraph (a) of this section (or other appropriate correlation test data), that there is a lack of correlation between the manufacturer's test equipment or procedures and the test equipment or procedures used by the Administrator, no manufacturer's test data will be accepted for purposes of certification until the reasons for the lack of correlation are determined and the validity of the data is established by the manufacturer.

(ii) If the Administrator has reasonable basis to believe that any test data submitted by the manufacturer is not accurate or has been obtained in violation of any provisions of this subpart, the Administrator may refuse to accept that data as the official data pending retesting or submission of further information.

(iii) If the manufacturer conducts more than one test on an emission data vehicle in the same configuration (excluding confirmatory tests run under paragraph (b) of this section), the data from the last test in that series of tests on that vehicle, will constitute the official data.

(d) Upon request of the manufacturer, the Administrator may issue a conditional certificate of conformity for a test group which has not completed the Administrator testing required under paragraph (a) of this section. Such a certificate will be issued based upon the condition that the confirmatory testing be completed in an expedited manner and that the results of the testing be in compliance with all standards and procedures.

(1) If, based on this testing or any other information, the Administrator later determines that the vehicles included in this test group do not meet the applicable standards, the Administrator will notify the manufacturer that the certificate is suspended. The certificate may be suspended in whole or in part as determined by the Administrator. Upon such a notification, the manufacturer must immediately cease the introduction of the affected vehicles into commerce. The manufacturer may request a hearing to appeal the Administrators decision using the provisions of ยง 86.1853-01.

(2) Production of vehicles by a manufacturer under the terms of this paragraph (d) will be deemed to be a consent to recall all vehicles in the test group which the Administrator determines do not meet applicable standards, and to cause such nonconformity to be remedied at no expense to the owner.
