
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1838-01 Small-volume manufacturer certification procedures.
####### Operationally independent manufacturers.

(d)Manufacturers may submit an application to EPA requesting treatment as an operationally independent manufacturer. A manufacturer that is granted operationally independent status may qualify for all the regulatory provisions of this subpart that apply for small-volume manufacturers on the basis of its own vehicle production and/or sales volumes, and would not require aggregation with related manufacturers. In this paragraph (d), the term "related manufacturer(s)" means manufacturers that would qualify for aggregation under the requirements of paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) To request consideration for operationally independent status, the manufacturer must submit an application demonstrating that the following criteria are met, and have been continuously met for at least two years prior to submitting the application to EPA. The application must be signed by the president or the chief executive officer of the manufacturer.

(i) The applicant does not receive any financial or other means of support of economic value from any related manufacturers for purposes of vehicle design, vehicle parts procurement, research and development, and production facilities and operation. Any transactions with related manufacturers must be conducted under normal commercial arrangements like those conducted with other external parties. Any such transactions with related manufacturers shall be demonstrated to have been at competitive pricing rates to the applicant.

(ii) The applicant maintains wholly separate and independent research and development, testing, and vehicle manufacturing and production facilities.

(iii) The applicant does not use any vehicle engines, powertrains, or platforms developed or produced by related manufacturers.

(iv) The applicant does not hold any patents jointly with related manufacturers.

(v) The applicant maintains separate business administration, legal, purchasing, sales, and marketing departments as well as wholly autonomous decision making on all commercial matters.

(vi) The Board of Directors of the applicant may not share more than 25 percent of its membership with any related manufacturer. No top operational management of the applicant may be shared with any related manufacturer, including the president, the chief executive officer (CEO), the chief financial officer (CFO), and the chief operating officer (COO). No individual director or combination of directors that is shared with a related manufacturer may exercise exclusive management control over either or both companies.

(vii) Parts or components supply agreements between the applicant and related companies must be established through open market processes. An applicant that sells or otherwise provides parts and/or vehicle components to a manufacturer that is not a related manufacturer must do so through the open market at competitive pricing rates.

(2) Manufacturers that have been granted operationally independent status must report any material changes to the information provided in the application within 60 days of the occurrence of the change. If such a change occurs that results in the manufacturer no longer meeting the requirements of the application, the manufacturer will lose the eligibility to be considered operationally independent. The EPA will confirm that the manufacturer no longer meets one or more of the criteria and thus is no longer considered operationally independent, and will notify the manufacturer of the change in status. A manufacturer who loses the eligibility for operationally independent status must transition to the appropriate emission standards no later than the third model year after the model year in which the loss of eligibility occurred. For example, a manufacturer that loses eligibility in their 2018 model year would be required to meet appropriate standards in the 2021 model year. A manufacturer that loses eligibility must meet the applicable criteria for three consecutive model years before they are allowed to apply for a reinstatement of their operationally independent status.

(3) The manufacturer applying for operational independence shall engage an independent certified public accountant, or firm of such accountants (hereinafter referred to as "CPA"), to perform an agreed-upon procedures attestation engagement of the underlying documentation that forms the basis of the application as required in this paragraph (d).

(i) The CPA shall perform the attestation engagements in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

(ii) The CPA may complete the requirements of this paragraph with the assistance of internal auditors who are employees or agents of the applicant, so long as such assistance is in accordance with the Statements on Standards for Attestation Engagements established by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.

(iii) Notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (d)(3)(ii) of this section, an applicant may satisfy the requirements of this paragraph (d)(3) if the requirements of this paragraph (d)(3) are completed by an auditor who is an employee of the applicant, provided that such employee:

(A) Is an internal auditor certified by the Institute of Internal Auditors, Inc. (hereinafter referred to as "CIA"); and

(B) Completes the internal audits in accordance with the standards for internal auditing established by the Institute of Internal Auditors.

(iv) Use of a CPA or CIA who is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment pursuant to the Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension Regulations, 2 CFR part 1532, or the Debarment, Suspension, and Ineligibility Provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR part 9, subpart 9.4, shall be deemed in noncompliance with the requirements of this section.
