
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1844-01 Information requirements: Application for certification and submittal of information upon request.
####### Durability information.

(4)(i) A description of the durability method used to establish useful life durability, including exhaust and evaporative/refueling emission deterioration factors as required in §§ 86.1823, 86.1824 and 86.1825 when applicable.

(ii) The equivalency factor required to be calculated in § 86.1823-08(e)(1)(iii)(B), when applicable.

(5) A description of each test group in accordance with the criteria listed in § 86.1827-01 or as otherwise used to group a product line.

(6) Identification and description of all vehicles for which testing is required by §§ 86.1822-01 and 86.1828-01 to obtain a certificate of conformity.

(7) A comprehensive list of all test results, including official certification levels, and the applicable intermediate and full useful life emission standards to which the test group is to be certified as required in § 86.1829. Include the following additional information related to testing:

(i) For vehicles certified to any Tier 3 emission standards, include a comparison of drive-cycle metrics as specified in 40 CFR 1066.425(j) for each drive cycle or test phase, as appropriate.

(ii) For gasoline-fueled Tier 3 vehicles, identify the method of accounting for ethanol in determining evaporative emissions, as described in § 86.1813.

(iii) Identify any aspects of testing for which the regulations obligate EPA testing to conform to your selection of test methods.

(iv) For heavy-duty vehicles subject to air conditioning standards under § 86.1819, include the refrigerant leakage rates (leak scores), describe the type of refrigerant, and identify the refrigerant capacity of the air conditioning systems. If another company will install the air conditioning system, also identify the corporate name of the final installer.

(8) A statement that all applicable vehicles will conform to the emission standards for which emission data is not being provided, as allowed under § 86.1806 or § 86.1829. The statement shall clearly identify the standards for which emission testing was not completed.

(9) Information describing each emission control diagnostic system required by § 86.1806, including all of the following:

(i) A description of the functional operation characteristics of the diagnostic system, with additional information demonstrating that the system meets the requirements specified in § 86.1806. Include all testing and demonstration data submitted to the California Air Resources Board for certification.

(ii) The general method of detecting malfunctions for each emission-related powertrain component.

(iii) Any deficiencies, including resolution plans and schedules.

(iv) A statement that the diagnostic system is adequate for the performance warranty test described in 40 CFR Part 85, subpart W.

(v) For vehicles certified to meet the leak standard in § 86.1813, a description of the anticipated test procedure. The description must include, at a minimum, a method for accessing the fuel system for measurements and a method for pressurizing the fuel system to perform the procedure specified in 40 CFR 1066.985. The recommended test method must include at least two separate points for accessing the fuel system, with additional access points as appropriate for multiple fuel tanks and multiple evaporative or refueling canisters.

(10) A description of all flexible or dedicated alternate fuel vehicles including, but not limited to, the fuel and/or percentage of alternate fuel for all such vehicles.

(11) A list of all auxiliary emission control devices (AECD) installed on any applicable vehicles, including a justification for each AECD, the parameters they sense and control, a detailed justification of each AECD that results in a reduction in effectiveness of the emission control system, and rationale for why it is not a defeat device as defined under § 86.1809. The following specific provisions apply for AECDs:

(i) For any AECD uniquely used at high altitudes, EPA may request engineering emission data to quantify any emission impact and validity of the AECD.

(ii) For any AECD uniquely used on multi-fuel vehicles when operated on fuels other than gasoline, EPA may request engineering emission data to quantify any emission impact and validity of the AECD.

(iii) For Tier 3 vehicles with spark-ignition engines, describe how AECDs are designed to comply with the requirements of § 86.1811-17(d). Identify which components need protection through enrichment strategies; describe the temperature limitations for those components; and describe how the enrichment strategy corresponds to those temperature limitations. We may also require manufacturers to submit this information for certification related to Tier 2 vehicles.

(12) Identification and description of all vehicles covered by each certificate of conformity to be produced and sold within the U.S. The description must be sufficient to identify whether any given in-use vehicle is, or is not, covered by a given certificate of conformity, the test group and the evaporative/refueling family to which it belongs and the standards that are applicable to it, by matching readily observable vehicle characteristics and information given in the emission control information label (and other permanently attached labels) to indicators in the Part 1 Application. In addition, the description must be sufficient to determine for each vehicle covered by the certificate, all appropriate test parameters and any special test procedures necessary to conduct an official certification exhaust or evaporative emission test as was required by this subpart to demonstrate compliance with applicable emission standards. The description shall include, but is not limited to, information such as model name, vehicle classification (light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, or complete heavy-duty vehicle), sales area, engine displacement, engine code, transmission type, tire size and parameters necessary to conduct exhaust emission tests such as equivalent test weight, curb and gross vehicle weight, test horsepower (with and without air conditioning adjustment), coast down time, shift schedules, cooling fan configuration, etc. and evaporative tests such as canister working capacity, canister bed volume and fuel temperature profile. The Part 1 may include ranges for test parameters in lieu of actual values.

(13) Projected U.S. vehicle sales volumes for each test group and evaporative/refueling family combination organized in such a way to determine projected compliance with any applicable implementation schedules or minimum sales requirements as specified in § 86.1810 or as otherwise required by this chapter.

(14) A request for a certificate of conformity for each test group after all required testing has been completed. The request must be signed by an authorized manufacturer representative and include a statement that the test group complies with all applicable regulations contained within this chapter.

(15)(i) For HEVs and EVs, describe the recharging procedures and methods for determining battery performance, such as state of charge and charging capacity.

(ii) For vehicles with fuel-fired heaters, include the information specified in this paragraph (d)(15)(ii). Describe the control system logic of the fuel-fired heater, including an evaluation of the conditions under which it can be operated and an evaluation of the possible operational modes and conditions under which evaporative emissions can exist. Use good engineering judgment to establish an estimated exhaust emission rate from the fuel-fired heater in grams per mile. Describe the testing used to establish the exhaust emission rate.

(16) (i) A statement indicating that the manufacturer has conducted an engineering analysis of the complete exhaust system to ensure that the exhaust system has been designed-

(A) To facilitate leak-free assembly, installation and operation for the full useful life of the vehicle; and

(B) To facilitate that such repairs as might be necessary on a properly maintained and used vehicle can be performed in such a manner as to maintain leak-free operation, using tools commonly available in a motor vehicle dealership or independent repair shop for the full useful life of the vehicle.

(ii) The analysis must cover the exhaust system and all related and attached components including the air injection system, if present, from the engine block manifold gasket surface to a point sufficiently past the last catalyst and oxygen sensor in the system to assure that leaks beyond that point will not permit air to reach the oxygen sensor or catalyst under normal operating conditions.

(iii) A "leak-free" system is one in which leakage is controlled so that it will not lead to a failure of the certification exhaust emission standards in-use.

(17) The name of an agent for service of process located in the United States. Service on this agent constitutes service on you or any of your officers or employees for any action by EPA or otherwise by the United States related to the requirements of this part.
