
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1843-01 General information requirements.
####### Updates to the Application for Certification.

(f)(1) The manufacturer must submit an update to the Part 1 Application by January 1st of the applicable model year to incorporate any running changes and/or corrections which occurred after certification. If a test group is certified less than 60 days prior to January 1st of the applicable model year, this update may be submitted to the Administrator within 90 days of the effective date on the applicable certificate of conformity.

(2) The manufacturer must submit a final update to Part 1 and Part 2 of the Application by May 1 following the end of the model year to incorporate any applicable running changes or corrections which occurred between January 1 of the applicable model year and the end of the model year. A manufacturer may request an extension for submitting the final update. The request must clearly indicate the circumstances necessitating the extension.

(3) The manufacturer may not use updates to its application to correct a misbuild situation with respect to vehicles already introduced into commerce.
