
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1844-01 Information requirements: Application for certification and submittal of information upon request.
####### Part 2 Application.

(e)Part 2 must contain the following items:

(1) A list of part numbers of all emission-related components and AECDs for each emission control system, including those found on actual components. The part numbers shall be organized by engine code or other similar classification scheme.

(2) Basic calibration information, organized by engine code (or other similar classification scheme), for the major components of the fuel system, EGR system, ignition system, oxygen sensor(s) and thermostat. Examples of major components and associated calibration information include, but are not limited to; fuel pump and fuel pump flow rate, fuel pressure regulator and regulated fuel pressure, EGR valve and EGR exhaust gas flow rate at specified vacuum levels, EGR vacuum regulator and regulated vacuum, EGR orifice and orifice diameter, basic engine timing, timing RPM, idle rpm, spark plug gap, oxygen sensor output (mV), and thermostat opening temperature.

(3) Identification and description of all vehicles covered by each certificate of conformity to be produced and sold within the U.S. The description must be sufficient to identify whether any given in-use vehicle is, or is not, covered by a given certificate of conformity, the test group and the evaporative/refueling family to which it belongs and the standards that are applicable to it, by matching readily observable vehicle characteristics and information given in the emission control information label (and other permanently attached labels) to indicators in the Part 1 Application. In addition, the description must be sufficient to determine for each vehicle covered by the certificate, all appropriate test parameters and any special test procedures necessary to conduct an official certification exhaust or evaporative emission test as was required by this subpart to demonstrate compliance with applicable emission standards. The description shall include, but is not limited to, information such as model name, vehicle classification (light-duty vehicle, light-duty truck, or complete heavy-duty vehicle), sales area, engine displacement, engine code, transmission type, tire size and parameters necessary to conduct exhaust emission tests such as equivalent test weight, curb and gross vehicle weight, test horsepower (with and without air conditioning adjustment), coast down time, shift schedules, cooling fan configuration, etc and evaporative tests such as canister working capacity, canister bed volume and fuel temperature profile. Actual values must be provided for all parameters.

(4) Final U.S. vehicle sales volumes for each test group and evaporative/refueling family combination organized in such a way to verify compliance with any applicable implementation schedules. Final sales are not required until the final update to the Part 2 Application at the end of the model year.

(i) The manufacturer may petition the Administrator to allow actual volume produced for U.S. sale to be used in lieu of actual U.S. sales. The petition must establish that production volume is functionally equivalent to sales volume.

(ii) The U.S. sales volume shall be based on the location of the point of sale to a dealer, distributor, fleet operator, broker, or any other entity which comprises the point of first sale.

(5) Copies of all service manuals, service bulletins and instructions regarding the use, repair, adjustment, maintenance, or testing of such vehicles relevant to the control of crankcase, exhaust or evaporative emissions, as applicable, issued by the manufacturer (in written or electronic form) for use by other manufacturers, assembly plants, distributors, dealers, and ultimate purchasers. These shall be submitted to the Agency when they are made available to the public and must be updated as appropriate throughout the useful life of the corresponding vehicles.

(6) The NMOG/NMHC and HCHO to NMHC ratios established according to § 86.1845-04.

(7) The results of any production vehicle evaluation testing required for OBD systems under § 86.1806.

(f) Running change submissions. A manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator a notification of all running changes as required in accordance with §§ 86.1842-01 and 86.1843-01 at the time each change is incorporated into production. Each running change notification shall include:

(1) A detailed description of the change;

(2) The reason for the change;

(3) The portion of the product line that is affected by the change, including information sufficient to identify whether any given in-use vehicle includes the change;

(4) The effect the change will have on emissions;

(5) Any test data that is determined to be necessary to demonstrate compliance with applicable emission standards; and

(6) A summary report for each test group which provides an overview of all running changes that have been incorporated since certification.

(g) The manufacturer shall provide the following information, or other information as deemed necessary by the Administrator, to the Agency upon written request by the Administrator. This includes any information, or explanations of such information specified in paragraphs (d), (e), and (f) of this section.

(1) A detailed description of the basis for all good engineering judgment decisions that were required to be made by the manufacturer. These include, but are not limited to, placement of vehicles into durability and test groups, the appropriateness of a durability process for future model years, worst-case vehicle selections for durability and emission data purposes, and carry-over or carry-across of emission test data.

(2) The basis used for all compliance statements submitted under this section. Each statement must be supported by the manufacturer using good engineering judgment and should include any emission test data, development test data, or other supporting information deemed necessary. This includes information necessary to demonstrate compliance with any emission standards for which a compliance statement was submitted in lieu of actual emission test data as allowed under § 86.1810.

(3) Detailed technical descriptions of emission-related components and AECDs, including schematic diagrams and hose and wire routings which describe the fundamental operating characteristics of each emission control system.

(4) Detailed calibration specifications for all emission-related components and AECDs.

(5) Any information necessary to demonstrate that no defeat devices are present on any vehicles covered by a certificate including, but not limited to, a description of the technology employed to control CO emissions at intermediate temperatures, as applicable.

(6) The following information describing any adjustable parameters:

(i) A list of those parameters which are physically capable of being adjusted (including those adjustable parameters for which access is difficult) and that, if adjusted to settings other than the manufacturer's recommended setting, may affect emissions;

(ii) A specification of the manufacturer's intended physically adjustable range of each such parameter, and the production tolerances of the limits or stops used to establish the physically adjustable range;

(iii) A description of the limits or stops used to establish the manufacturer's intended physically adjustable range of each adjustable parameter, or any other means used to inhibit adjustment;

(iv) The nominal or recommended setting, and the associated production tolerances, for each such parameter;

(v) The specifications used during all emission testing required by this subpart.

(7) A history of each motor vehicle used for certification testing, including a general description of the buildup of the vehicle and engine. Each history shall begin when any of the selection or buildup activities occur and should include details of the use of the vehicle for development testing. Each history must include a description of the origin and selection process for fuel system components, fuel injection components and emission control system components and specify the steps taken to assure that the certification vehicle will be representative of production vehicles.

(8) A record of all emission tests performed on all durability and emission data vehicles required to be tested by this subpart including test results, the date and purpose of each test, and the number of miles accumulated on the vehicle.

(9) A record and description of any significant events (including extraordinary events such as vehicle accidents or dynamometer runaway) affecting any certification test vehicle, including all maintenance, servicing or tests performed to diagnose engine or emission control system performance. The date and time of each event and an explanation must be included.

(10) For vehicles with non-integrated refueling emission control systems, a description of the drivedown used to purge the refueling canister and a description of the procedures used to determine the number of equivalent UDDS cycles required to purge the refueling canisters, as determined from the fuel economy on the UDDS applicable to the test vehicle of that evaporative/refueling family and emission control system combination required to use a volume of fuel equal to 85% of fuel tank volume and from subpart B of this part.

(11) A description of all procedures, including any special procedures, used to comply with applicable test requirements of this subpart. Any special procedures used to establish durability data or emission deterioration factors required to be determined under §§ 86.1823-01, 86.1824-01 and 86.1825-01 and to conduct emission tests required to be performed on applicable emission data vehicles under § 86.1829-01 according to test procedures contained within this Title must also be included.

(12) A description of any unique procedures required to perform evaporative/refueling emission tests for all vehicles in each evaporative/refueling family and a description of the method used to develop those unique procedures, including canister working capacity, canister bed volume and fuel temperature profile for the running loss test.

(13) A description of the method to be used to decode vehicle identification numbers.

(14) For complete heavy-duty vehicles only, all hardware (including scan tools) and documentation necessary for EPA to read, interpret, and store (in engineering units if applicable) any information broadcast by an engine's on-board computers and electronic control modules which relates in anyway to emission control devices and auxiliary emission control devices, provided that such hardware, passwords, or documentation exists and is not otherwise commercially available. Passwords include any information necessary to enable generic scan tools or personal computers access to proprietary emission related information broadcast by an engine's on-board computer, if such passwords exist. This requirement includes access by EPA to any proprietary code information which may be broadcast by an engine's on-board computer and electronic control modules. Information which is confidential business information must be marked as such. Engineering units refers to the ability to read, interpret, and store information in commonly understood engineering units, for example, engine speed in revolutions per minute or per second, injection timing parameters such as start of injection in degree's before top-dead center, fueling rates in cubic centimeters per stroke, vehicle speed in milers per hour or per kilometer.
