
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1845-04 Manufacturer in-use verification testing requirements.
####### Correlation.

(3)The manufacturer shall document correlation traceable to the Environmental Protection Agency's National Vehicle and Fuel Emission Laboratory for its test laboratory utilized to conduct the testing required by this section.

(f)(1) A manufacturer must conduct in-use testing on a test group by determining NMOG exhaust emissions using the same methodology used for certification, as described in ยง 86.1810-01(o) or 40 CFR 1066.635.

(2) For flexible-fueled vehicles certified to NMOG (or NMOG + NO) standards, the manufacturer may ask for EPA approval to demonstrate compliance using an equivalent NMOG emission result calculated from a ratio of ethanol NMOG exhaust emissions to gasoline NMHC exhaust emissions. Ethanol NMOG exhaust emissions are measured values from testing with the ethanol test fuel, expressed as NMOG. Gasoline NMHC exhaust emissions are measured values from testing with the gasoline test fuel, expressed as NMHC. This ratio must be established during certification for each emission-data vehicle for the applicable test group. Use good engineering judgment to establish a different ratio for each duty cycle or test interval as appropriate. Identify the ratio values you develop under this paragraph (f)(2) and describe the duty cycle or test interval to which they apply in the Part II application for certification. Calculate the equivalent NMOG emission result by multiplying the measured gasoline NMHC exhaust emissions for a given duty cycle or test interval by the appropriate ratio.

(3) If the manufacturer measures NMOG as described in 40 CFR 1066.635(a), it must also measure and report HCHO emissions. As an alternative to measuring the HCHO content, if the manufacturer measures NMOG as permitted in 40 CFR 1066.635(c), the Administrator may approve, upon submission of supporting data by a manufacturer, the use of HCHO to NMHC ratios. To request the use of HCHO to NMHC ratios, the manufacturer must establish during certification testing the ratio of measured HCHO exhaust emissions to measured NMHC exhaust emissions for each emission-data vehicle for the applicable test group. The results must be submitted to the Administrator with the Part II application for certification. Following approval of the application for certification, the manufacturer may conduct in-use testing on the test group by measuring NMHC exhaust emissions rather than HCHO exhaust emissions. The measured NMHC exhaust emissions must be multiplied by the HCHO to NMHC ratio submitted in the application for certification for the test group to determine the equivalent HCHO exhaust emission values for the test vehicle. The equivalent HCHO exhaust emission values must be compared to the HCHO exhaust emission standard applicable to the test group.
