
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1845-04 Manufacturer in-use verification testing requirements.
####### Geographical limitations.

(3)(i) Test groups certified to 50-state standards: For low altitude testing no more than fifty percent of the test vehicles may be procured from California. The test vehicles procured from the 49 state area must be procured from a location with a heating degree day 30 year annual average equal to or greater than 4000.

(ii) Test groups certified to 49 state standards: The test vehicles procured from the 49 state area must be procured from a location with a heating degree day 30 year annual average equal to or greater than 4000.

(iii) Vehicles procured for high altitude testing may be procured from any area located above 4000 feet.

(4) Vehicles may be rejected for procurement or testing under this section if they meet one or more of the rejection criteria in appendix II to this subpart. Vehicles may also be rejected after testing under this section if they meet one or more of the rejection criteria in appendix II to this subpart. Any vehicle rejected after testing must be replaced in order that the number of test vehicles in the sample comply with the sample size requirements of this section. Any post-test vehicle rejection and replacement procurement and testing must take place within the testing completion requirements of this section.
