
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1846-01 Manufacturer in-use confirmatory testing requirements.
####### Criteria for additional testing.

(b)(1) A manufacturer shall test a test group or a subset of a test group as described in paragraph (j) of this section when the results from testing conducted under § 86.1845 show mean exhaust emissions for that test group of any pollutant(s) (except CO, CH, and NO) to be equal to or greater than 1.30 times the applicable in-use standard and a failure rate, among the test group vehicles, for the corresponding pollutant(s) of fifty percent or greater.

(i) Additional testing is not required under this paragraph (b)(1) based on evaporative/refueling testing or based on low-mileage Supplemental FTP testing conducted under § 86.1845-04(b)(5)(i). Testing conducted at high altitude under the requirements of § 86.1845-04(c) will be included in determining if a test group meets the criteria triggering the testing required under this section.

(ii) The vehicle designated for testing under the requirements of § 86.1845-04(c)(2) with a minimum odometer reading of 105,000 miles or 75% of useful life, whichever is less, will not be included in determining if a test group meets the triggering criteria.

(iii) The SFTP composite emission levels shall include the IUVP FTP emissions, the IUVP US06 emissions, and the values from the SC03 Air Conditioning EDV certification test (without DFs applied). The calculations shall be made using the equations prescribed in § 86.164. If more than one set of certification SC03 data exists (due to running change testing or other reasons), the manufacturer shall choose the SC03 result to use in the calculation from among those data sets using good engineering judgment.

(2) If fewer than 50 percent of the vehicles from a leak family pass either the leak test or the diurnal test under § 86.1845, EPA may require further leak testing under this paragraph (b)(2). Testing under this section must include five vehicles from the family. If all five of these vehicles fail the test, the manufacturer must test five additional vehicles.

EPA will determine whether to require further leak testing under this section after providing the manufacturer an opportunity to discuss the results, including consideration of any of the following information, or other items that may be relevant:

(i) Detailed system design, calibration, and operating information, technical explanations as to why the individual vehicles tested failed the leak standard.

(ii) Comparison of the subject vehicles to other similar models from the same manufacturer.

(iii) Data or other information on owner complaints, technical service bulletins, service campaigns, special policy warranty programs, warranty repair data, state I/M data, and data available from other manufacturer-specific programs or initiatives.

(iv) Evaporative emission test data on any individual vehicles that did not pass leak testing during IUVP.
