
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1850-01 Denial, suspension or revocation of certificate of conformity.

(a) If, after review of the manufacturer's application, request for certification, information obtained from any inspection, such other information as the Administrator may require, and any other pertinent data or information, the Administrator determines that one or more test vehicles do not meet applicable requirements or standards of the Act or of this part, the Administrator will notify the manufacturer in writing, setting forth the basis for the determination. The manufacturer may request a hearing on the Administrator's determination.

(b) Notwithstanding the fact that the vehicles described in the application may comply with all other requirements of this subpart, the Administrator may deny issuance of, suspend, or revoke a previously issued certificate of conformity if the Administrator finds any one of the following infractions to be substantial:

(1) The manufacturer submits false or incomplete information.

(2) The manufacturer denies an EPA enforcement officer or EPA authorized representative the opportunity to conduct authorized inspections as required under § 86.1849-01.

(3) The manufacturer renders inaccurate any test data which it submits, or fails to make a good engineering judgment in accordance with § 86.1851-01(c)(1).

(4) The manufacturer denies an EPA enforcement officer or EPA authorized representative reasonable assistance as required in § 86.1849-01.

(5) The manufacturer fails to provide the records required in § 86.1844-01 to the Administrator within the deadline set forth in the request for such information.

(6) The manufacturer fails to comply with all conditions under which the certificate of conformity was granted as specified in 86.1848-01.

(7) The manufacturer otherwise circumvents the intent of the Act or of this part.

(c) The manufacturer shall bear the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the conditions upon which the certificate was issued were satisfied, or that any failure to satisfy a condition is not substantial.

(d) If a manufacturer knowingly commits an infraction specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section, knowingly commits any fraudulent act which results in the issuance of a certificate of conformity, or fails to comply with the conditions specified in § 86.1843-01, the Administrator may deem such certificate void ab initio.

(e) When the Administrator denies, suspends, revokes, or voids ab initio a certificate, EPA will provide the manufacturer a written determination. The manufacturer may request a hearing under § 86.1853-01 on the Administrator's decision.

(f) Any suspension or revocation of a certificate of conformity shall extend no further than to forbid the introduction into commerce of vehicles previously covered by the certificate which are still in the possession of the manufacturer, except in cases of such fraud or other misconduct that makes the certification void ab initio.
