
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - Air Emissions Reporting Requirements
###### Specific Reporting Requirements
####### ยง 51.15 What data does my state need to report to EPA?
######## Pollutants.

(a)Report actual emissions of the following (see ยง 51.50 for precise definitions as required):

(1) Required pollutants for triennial reports of annual (12-month) emissions for all sources and every-year reports of annual emissions from Type A sources:

(i) Sulfur dioxide (SO).

(ii) Volatile organic compounds (VOC).

(iii) Nitrogen oxides (NO).

(iv) Carbon monoxide (CO).

(v) Lead and lead compounds.

(vi) Primary PM. As applicable, also report filterable and condensable components.

(vii) Primary PM. As applicable, also report filterable and condensable components.

(viii) Ammonia (NH).

(2) A state may, at its option, choose to report NOand VOC summer day emissions (or any other emissions) as required under the Ozone Implementation Rule or report CO winter work weekday emissions for CO nonattainment areas or CO attainment areas with maintenance plans to the Emission Inventory System (EIS) using the data elements described in this subpart.

(3) A state may, at its option, choose to report ozone season day emissions of NOas required under the NOSIP Call and summer day emissions of NOthat may be required under the NOSIP Call for controlled sources to the EIS using the data elements described in this subpart.

(4) A state may, at its option, include estimates of emissions for additional pollutants (such as hazardous air pollutants) in its emission inventory reports.
