
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1848-10 Compliance with emission standards for the purpose of certification.

Section 86.1848-10 includes text that specifies requirements that differ from § 86.1848-01. Where a paragraph in § 86.1848-01 is identical and applicable to § 86.1848-10, this may be indicated by specifying the corresponding paragraph and the statement "[Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1848-01." Where a corresponding paragraph of § 86.1848-01 is not applicable, this is indicated by the statement "[Reserved]"

(a) through (b) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1848-01.

(c) The following conditions apply to all certificates:

(1) The manufacturer must supply all required information according to the provisions of §§ 86.1843-01 and 86.1844-01.

(2) The manufacturer must comply with all certification and in-use emission standards contained in subparts S and H of this part both during and after model year production.

(3) The manufacturer must comply with all implementation schedules sales percentages as required in § 86.1810 or elsewhere in this part. Failure to meet a required implementation schedule sales percentage will be considered to be a failure to satisfy a condition upon which the certificate was issued and any vehicles or trucks sold in violation of the implementation schedule are not to be covered by the certificate.

(4) For incomplete light-duty trucks and incomplete heavy-duty vehicles, a certificate covers only those new motor vehicles that, when completed by having the primary load-carrying device or container attached, conform to the maximum curb weight and frontal area limitations described in the application for certification as required in § 86.1844-01.

(5) The manufacturer must meet the in-use testing and reporting requirements contained in §§ 86.1845-01, 86.1846-01, and 86.1847-01, as applicable. Failure to meet the in-use testing or reporting requirements shall be considered a failure to satisfy a condition upon which the certificate was issued. A vehicle or truck is considered to be covered by the certificate only if the manufacturer fulfills this condition upon which the certificate was issued.

(6) Vehicles are covered by a certificate of conformity only if they are in all material respects as described in the manufacturer's application for certification (Part I and Part II).

(7) All certificates of conformity issued are conditional upon compliance with all the provisions of §§ 86.1811 through 86.1816 and §§ 86.1860 through 86.1862 both during and after model year production. The manufacturer bears the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the terms and conditions upon which each certificate was issued were satisfied. For recall and warranty purposes, vehicles not covered by a certificate of conformity will continue to be held to the standards stated or referenced in the certificate that otherwise would have applied to the vehicles.

(i) Failure to meet the applicable fleet average standard will be considered to be a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate was issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the fleet average standard will not be covered by the certificate.

(ii) Failure to comply fully with the prohibition against selling credits that it has not generated or that are not available, as specified in § 86.1861, will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate was issued and the vehicles sold in violation of this prohibition will not be covered by the certificate.

(iii) Failure to comply fully with the phase-in requirements of §§ 86.1811 through 86.1816 will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate was issued and the vehicles sold that do not comply with the applicable standards, up to the number needed to comply, will not be covered by the certificate.

(8) For LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs, all certificates of conformity issued are conditional upon compliance with all provisions of §§ 86.1811-10 and 86.1864-10 both during and after model year production. The manufacturer bears the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued were satisfied. For recall and warranty purposes, vehicles not covered by a certificate of conformity will continue to be held to the standards stated or referenced in the certificate that otherwise would have applied to the vehicles.

(i) Failure to meet the fleet average cold temperature NMHC requirements will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the fleet average NMHC standard will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(ii) Failure to comply fully with the prohibition against selling credits that are not generated or that are not available, as specified in § 86.1864-10, will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of this prohibition will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(iii) Failure to comply fully with the phase-in requirements of § 86.1811-10 will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold that do not comply with cold temperature NMHC requirements, up to the number needed to comply, will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(9) For 2012 and later model year LDVs, LDTs, and MDPVs, all certificates of conformity issued are conditional upon compliance with all provisions of §§ 86.1818 and 86.1865 both during and after model year production. Similarly, for 2014 and later model year HDV, and other HDV subject to standards under § 86.1819, all certificates of conformity issued are conditional upon compliance with all provisions of §§ 86.1819 and 86.1865 both during and after model year production. The manufacturer bears the burden of establishing to the satisfaction of the Administrator that the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued were satisfied. For recall and warranty purposes, vehicles not covered by a certificate of conformity will continue to be held to the standards stated or referenced in the certificate that otherwise would have applied to the vehicles.

(i) Failure to meet the fleet average COrequirements will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the fleet average COstandard will not be covered by the certificate(s). The vehicles sold in violation will be determined according to § 86.1865-12(k)(8).

(ii) Failure to comply fully with the prohibition against selling credits that are not generated or that are not available, as specified in § 86.1865-12, will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of this prohibition will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(iii) For manufacturers using the conditional exemption under § 86.1801-12(k), failure to fully comply with the fleet production thresholds that determine eligibility for the exemption will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the stated sales and/or production thresholds will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(iv) For manufacturers that are determined to be operationally independent under § 86.1838-01(d), failure to report a material change in their status within 60 days as required by § 86.1838-01(d)(2) will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of the operationally independent criteria will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(v) For manufacturers subject to an alternative fleet average greenhouse gas emission standard approved under § 86.1818-12(g), failure to comply with the annual sales thresholds that are required to maintain use of those standards, including the thresholds required for new entrants into the U.S. market, will be considered a failure to satisfy the terms and conditions upon which the certificate(s) was (were) issued and the vehicles sold in violation of stated sales and/or production thresholds will not be covered by the certificate(s).

(d)-(i) [Reserved]. For guidance see § 86.1848-01.
