
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1847-01 Manufacturer in-use verification and in-use confirmatory testing; submittal of information and maintenance of records.
####### Procurement documentation.

(3)A description of the procurement area, a record of the source(s) of any list(s) of vehicles used as a basis for procurement, and a complete record of the number of vehicles rejected after positive vehicle owner response and reason(s) for manufacturer rejection of each rejected vehicle. A complete record of the number of vehicle owners/lessees in which attempt to contact was made and the number of vehicle owners/lessees actually contacted, the number of owners/lessees not contacted and the reasons and number of each for failure to contact, and the number of owners contacted who declined to participate.

(4) All records required to be maintained under this paragraph shall be retained by the manufacturer for a period of eight (8) years after the end of production of the test group to which they relate.

(b) The manufacturer who conducts or causes to be conducted testing of any motor vehicle under § 86.1845-01 shall submit to the Administrator on a quarterly calendar year basis, with the information provided to the Administrator within 30 days of the end of the quarter of each calendar year, the following records organized by test group and evaporative/refueling family.

(1) A complete record of all emission tests performed, including tests results, the date of each test, and the phase mass values for fuel economy, carbon dioxide and each pollutant measured by the Federal Test Procedure and Supplemental Federal Test Procedure as prescribed by subpart B of this part.

(2) For each test vehicle within a test group, a record and description of procedures and test results pertaining to any inspection (including the information listed in appendix III to this subpart), diagnostics, and maintenance performed on the test vehicle prior to testing in as-received condition.

(3) A record and description of any inspection, diagnostics, and maintenance performed and/or testing (including emission results) of any vehicle tested subsequent to its initial as-received test.

(c) The manufacturer who conducts or causes to be conducted testing of any motor vehicle under § 86.1845-01 shall submit to the Administrator a record of the name and location of the testing laboratory(s) to be used to conduct testing for each model year 30 working days prior to the initiation of testing of that model year.

(d) The manufacturer of any test vehicle subject to § 86.1845-01 shall report to the Agency the test results (identifying the vehicle test group and emission test results) of any test vehicle in which the test vehicle fails to meet any applicable emission standard. The manufacturer must make this report within 72 hours of the completion of the testing of the test vehicle.

(e) The manufacturer who conducts or causes to be conducted testing of any motor vehicle under § 86.1846-01 shall establish, maintain and retain the following organized and indexed records by test group or Agency-designated subset.

(1) A description of all laboratory equipment calibrations and verifications as prescribed by subpart B of this part or by good engineering judgment.

(2) Procurement documentation. A description of the procurement area, a record of the source(s) of any list(s) of vehicles used as a basis for procurement, a complete record of: the number of vehicle owners/lessees in which attempt to contact was made and the number of vehicle owners/lessees actually contacted; the number of owners/lessees not contacted and the reasons and number of each for failure to contact; the number of owners contacted who declined to participate; and a complete record of the number of vehicles rejected after positive vehicle owner response and reason(s) for manufacturer rejection of each rejected vehicle.

(3) All records required to be maintained under this paragraph shall be retained by the manufacturer for a period of eight (8) years after the end of production of the test group to which they relate.

(f) Within 30 working days of the completion of testing of a test group or Agency-designated subset performed under § 86.1846-01, the manufacturer shall submit to the Administrator the following records organized by test group or Agency-designated subset.

(1) A complete record of all emission tests performed, including tests results, the date of each test, and the phase mass values for fuel economy, carbon dioxide and each pollutant measured by the Federal Test Procedure and Supplemental Federal Test Procedure as prescribed by subpart B of this part.

(2) For each test vehicle within a test group, a record and description of procedures and test results pertaining to any inspections, diagnostics, and maintenance performed on the test vehicle prior to any emission testing.

(3) A record and description of any inspections, diagnostics, maintenance performed and/or testing (including emission results) of any test vehicle tested subsequent to its initial emission test.
