
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1860-17 How to comply with the Tier 3 fleet-average standards.
######## Early banking.

(c)(1)(i) Manufacturers may certify LDV/LLDTs to the Tier 2 FTP exhaust standards in § 86.1811-04 for model years 2001-2003 in order to bank credits for use in the 2004 and later model years. Such vehicles must also meet SFTP exhaust emission standards specified in § 86.1811-04.

(ii) Manufacturers may certify HLDT/MDPVs to the Tier 2 FTP exhaust standards in § 86.1811-04 for model years 2001-2007 in order to bank credits for use in the 2008 and later model years. Such vehicles must also meet applicable SFTP exhaust emission standards specified in § 86.1811-04.

(iii) This process is referred to as "early banking" and the resultant credits are referred to as "early credits". In order to bank early credits, a manufacturer must comply with all exhaust emission standards and requirements applicable to Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs and/or HLDT/MDPVs, as applicable, except as allowed under paragraph (c)(4) of this section.

(2) To generate early credits, a manufacturer must separately compute the sales weighted NOaverage of the LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs it certifies to the Tier 2 exhaust requirements and separately compute credits using the calculations in this section and in § 86.1860-04.

(3) Early HLDT/MDPV credits may not be applied to LDV/LLDTs before the 2009 model year. Early LDV/LLDT credits may not be applied to HLDT/MDPVs before the 2009 model year.

(4) Manufacturers may generate early Tier 2 credits from LDVs, LDT1s and LDT2s that are certified to a full useful life of 100,000 miles, provided that the credits are prorated by a multiplicative factor of 0.833 (the quotient of 100,000/120,000). Where a manufacturer has both 100,000 and 120,000 mile full useful life vehicles for which it desires to bank early credits, it must compute the credits from each group of vehicles separately and then add them together.

(5) Manufacturers may bank early credits for later use to meet the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard or trade them to another manufacturer subject to the restriction in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(6) Early credits must not be used to comply with the fleet average NOstandards for interim non-Tier 2 vehicles.

(7) Nothing in this section prevents the use of the NMOG values of 2003 and earlier model year LDV/LLDTs from being used in calculations of the NMOG fleet average and subsequent NMOG credit generation, under subpart R of this part.
