
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1860-17 How to comply with the Tier 3 fleet-average standards.
######## General provisions for Tier 2 credits and debits.

(a)(1) A manufacturer whose Tier 2 fleet average NOemissions exceeds the 0.07 g/mile standard must complete the calculation at paragraph (b) of this section to determine the size of its NOcredit deficit. A manufacturer whose Tier 2 fleet average NOemissions is less than or equal to the 0.07 g/mile standard must complete the calculation in paragraph (b) of this section if it desires to generate NOcredits. In either case, the number of credits or debits determined in the calculation at paragraph (b) of this section must be rounded to the nearest whole number.

(2) Credits generated according to the calculation in paragraph (b)(1) of this section may be banked for future use or traded to another manufacturer.

(3) NOcredits are not subject to any discount or expiration date except as required under the deficit carryforward provisions of ยง 86.1860-04(e)(2).

(4) If a manufacturer calculates that it has negative credits (debits or a credit deficit) for a given model year, it must obtain sufficient credits, as required under ยง 86.1860-04(e)(2), from vehicles produced by itself or another manufacturer in a model year no later than the third model year following the model year for which it calculated the credit deficit. (Example: if a manufacturer calculates that it has a NOcredit deficit for the 2008 model year, it must obtain sufficient NOcredits to offset that deficit from its own production or that of other manufacturers' 2011 or earlier model year vehicles.)

(6)(i) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits to comply with the NLEV requirements of subpart R of this part.

(ii) Manufacturers may not use NMOG credits generated by vehicles certified to the NLEV requirements of subpart R of this part to comply with any NOrequirements of this subpart.

(iii) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits generated by interim non-Tier 2 vehicles to comply with the fleet average NOstandard for Tier 2 vehicles.

(iv) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits generated by Tier 2 vehicles to comply with any fleet average NOstandard for interim non-Tier 2 vehicles, except as permitted under ยง 86.1860-04(e).

(v) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits generated by interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs to comply with the fleet average NOstandard for interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs.

(vi) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits generated by interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs to comply with the fleet average NOstandard for interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs.

(vii) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits generated by Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs to comply with the Tier 2 NOaverage standard for HLDT/MDPVs before the 2009 model year.

(viii) Manufacturers may not use NOcredits generated by Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs to comply with the Tier 2 NOaverage standard for LDV/LLDTs before the 2009 model year.

(7) Manufacturers may bank Tier 2 NOcredits for later use to meet the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard or trade them to another manufacturer. Credits are earned on the last day of the model year. Before trading or carrying over credits to the next model year, a manufacturer must apply available credits to offset any credit deficit, where the deadline to offset that credit deficit has not yet passed.

(8) There are no property rights associated with NOcredits generated under this subpart. Credits are a limited authorization to emit the designated amount of emissions. Nothing in this part or any other provision of law should be construed to limit EPA's authority to terminate or limit this authorization through a rulemaking.
