
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1860-17 How to comply with the Tier 3 fleet-average standards.
######## Fleet average NO,debits.

(e)(1) Manufacturers must offset any debits for a given model year by the fleet average NOreporting deadline for the third model year following the model year in which the debits were generated as required in ยง 86.1860.04(e)(2). Manufacturers may offset debits by generating credits or acquiring credits generated by another manufacturer.

(2)(i) Failure to meet the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section and of this paragraph (e), within the required timeframe for offsetting debits will be considered to be a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which the certificate(s) was issued and the individual noncomplying vehicles not covered by the certificate must be determined according to this section.

(ii) If debits are not offset within the specified time period, the number of vehicles not meeting the fleet average NOstandards and not covered by the certificate must be calculated by dividing the total amount of debits for the model year by the fleet average NOstandard applicable for the model year in which the debits were first incurred.

(iii) EPA will determine the vehicles for which the condition on the certificate was not satisfied by designating vehicles in those test groups with the highest certification NOemission values first and continuing until a number of vehicles equal to the calculated number of noncomplying vehicles as determined above is reached. If this calculation determines that only a portion of vehicles in a test group contribute to the debit situation, then EPA will designate actual vehicles in that test group as not covered by the certificate, starting with the last vehicle produced and counting backwards.

(3) If a manufacturer ceases production of LDV/Ts and MDPVs or is purchased by, merges with or otherwise combines with another manufacturer, the manufacturer continues to be responsible for offsetting any debits outstanding within the required time period. Any failure to offset the debits will be considered to be a violation of paragraph (e)(1) of this section and may subject the manufacturer to an enforcement action for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate, pursuant to paragraph (e)(2) of this section.

(4) For purposes of calculating the statute of limitations, a violation of the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section, a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which a certificate(s) was issued and hence a sale of vehicles not covered by the certificate, all occur upon the expiration of the deadline for offsetting debits specified in paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
