
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### §§ 86.1855-86.1859 [Reserved]
############# § 86.1860-04 How to comply with the Tier 2 and interim non-Tier 2 fleet average NOstandards.

(a) The fleet average standards referred to in this section are the corporate fleet average standards for FTP exhaust NOemissions set forth in: § 86.1811-04(d) for Tier 2 LDV/Ts and MDPVs (0.07 g/mi); § 86.1811-04(l)(3) for interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs (0.30 g/mi); and, § 86.1811-04(l)(3) for interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs (0.20 g/mi). Unless otherwise indicated in this section, the provisions of this section apply to all three corporate fleet average standards, except that the interim non-Tier 2 fleet average NOstandards do not apply to a manufacturer whose U.S. LDV/T and MDPV sales are 100% Tier 2 LDV/Ts and MDPVs.

(b)(1) Each manufacturer must comply with the applicable fleet average NOstandard, or standards, on a sales weighted average basis, at the end of each model year, using the procedure described in this section.

(2) During a phase-in year, the manufacturer must comply with the applicable fleet average NOstandard for the required phase-in percentage for that year as specified in § 86.1811-04(k)(1), or for the alternate phase-in percentage as permitted under § 86.1811-04(k)(6).

(c)(1)(i) Each manufacturer must separately compute the sales weighted averages of the individual NOemission standards to which it certified all its Tier 2 vehicles, interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs, and interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs of a given model year as described in § 86.1804(l)(2).

(ii) For model years up to and including 2008, manufacturers must compute separate NOfleet averages for Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs and Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs.

(2)(i) For model years up to and including 2008, if a manufacturer certifies its entire U.S. sales of Tier 2 or interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs or interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs, to full useful life bins having NOstandards at or below the applicable fleet average NOstandard, that manufacturer may elect not to compute a fleet average NOlevel for that category of vehicles. A manufacturer making such an election must not generate NOcredits for that category of vehicles for that model year.

(ii) For model years after 2008, if a manufacturer certifies its entire U.S. sales of Tier 2 vehicles to full useful life bins having NOstandards at or below 0.07 gpm, that manufacturer may elect not to compute a fleet average NOlevel for its Tier 2 vehicles. A manufacturer making such an election must not generate NOcredits for that model year.

(d) The sales weighted NOfleet averages determined pursuant to paragraph (c) of this section must be compared with the applicable fleet average standard; 0.07 g/mi for NOfor Tier 2 LDV/Ts and MDPVs, 0.30 g/mi for NOfor interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs, and 0.20 g/mi for NOx for interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs. Each manufacturer must comply on an annual basis with the fleet average standards by:

(1) Showing that its sales weighted average NOemissions of its LDV/LLDTs, HLDT/MDPVs or LDV/Ts, as applicable, are at or below the applicable fleet average standard; or

(2) If the sales weighted average is not at or below the applicable fleet average standard, by obtaining and applying sufficient Tier 2 NOcredits, interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDT NOcredits or interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPV NOcredits, as appropriate, and as permitted under § 86.1861-04.

(i) Manufacturers may not use NMOG credits generated under the NLEV program in subpart R of this part to meet any Tier 2 or interim non-Tier 2 NOfleet average standard.

(ii) Tier 2 NOcredits may not be used to meet any fleet average interim non-Tier 2 NOstandard except as permitted by § 86.1860-04(e)(1).

(iii) Interim non-Tier 2 NOcredits may not be used to meet the Tier 2 fleet average NOstandard.

(iv) Interim non-Tier 2 NOcredits from HLDT/MDPVs may not be used to meet the fleet average NOstandard for interim non-Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs, and interim non-Tier 2 credits from LDV/LLDTs may not be used to meet the fleet average NOstandard for interim non-Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs.

(e) (1) Manufacturers that cannot meet the requirements of paragraph (d) of this section, may carry forward a credit deficit for three model years, but must not carry such deficit into the fourth year. When applying credits to reduce or eliminate a deficit under the fleet average standard for interim LDV/LLDTs or interim HLDT/MDPVs, that has been carried forward into a year subsequent to its generation, a manufacturer may apply credits from Tier 2 LDV/LLDTs or Tier 2 HLDT/MDPVs, respectively, as well as from the appropriate group of interim vehicles. A manufacturer must not use interim credits to reduce or eliminate any NOcredit deficit under the Tier 2 fleet average standard.

(2) A manufacturer carrying a credit deficit into the third year must generate or obtain credits to offset that deficit and apply them to the deficit at a rate of 1.2:1, (i.e. deficits carried into the third model year must be repaid with credits equal to 120 percent of the deficit).

(3) A manufacturer must not bank credits for future model years or trade credits to another manufacturer during a model year into which it has carried a deficit.
