
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1862-04 Maintenance of records and submittal of information relevant to compliance with fleet-average standards.
####### Reporting.

(c)(1) Each manufacturer must submit an annual report. Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the annual report must contain, for each applicable fleet average standard, the fleet average value achieved, all values required to calculate the fleet-average value, the number of credits generated or debits incurred, all the values required to calculate the credits or debits, and sufficient information to show compliance with all phase-in requirements, if applicable. The annual report must also contain the resulting balance of credits or debits.

(2) When a manufacturer calculates compliance with the fleet-average standard using the provisions in ยง 86.1860-04(c)(2) or ยง 86.1860-17(f), the annual report must state that the manufacturer has elected to use such provision and must contain the fleet-average standard as the fleet-average value for that model year.

(3) For each applicable fleet-average standard, the annual report must also include documentation on all credit transactions the manufacturer has engaged in since those included in the last report. Information for each transaction must include all the following information:

(i) Name of credit provider.

(ii) Name of credit recipient.

(iii) Date the transfer occurred.

(iv) Quantity of credits transferred.

(v) Model year in which the credits were earned.

(4) Unless a manufacturer reports the data required by this section in the annual production report required under ยง 86.1844-01(e) and subsequent model year provisions, a manufacturer must submit an annual report for each model year after production ends for all affected vehicles produced by the manufacturer subject to the provisions of this subpart and no later than May 1 of the calendar year following the given model year. Annual reports must be submitted to: Director, Compliance Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105.

(5) Failure by a manufacturer to submit the annual report in the specified time period for all vehicles subject to the provisions in this section is a violation of Clean Air Act section 203(a)(1) (42 U.S.C 7522(a)(1)) for each subject vehicle produced by that manufacturer.

(6) If EPA or the manufacturer determines that a reporting error occurred on an annual report previously submitted to EPA, the manufacturer's credit or debit calculations will be recalculated. EPA may void erroneous credits, unless transferred, and must adjust erroneous debits. In the case of transferred erroneous credits, EPA must adjust the selling manufacturer's credit or debit balance to reflect the sale of such credits and any resulting generation of debits.
