
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1862-04 Maintenance of records and submittal of information relevant to compliance with fleet-average standards.
####### Maintenance of records.

(b)(1) The manufacturer producing any vehicles subject to a fleet-average standard under this subpart must establish and maintain all the following information in organized and indexed records for each model year:

(i) Model year.

(ii) Applicable fleet-average standard.

(iii) Calculated fleet-average value.

(iv) All values used in calculating the fleet-average value achieved.

(2) The manufacturer producing any vehicle subject to the provisions in this section must keep all the following information for each vehicle:

(i) Model year.

(ii) Applicable fleet-average standard.

(iii) EPA test group or evaporative family, as applicable.

(iv) Assembly plant.

(v) Vehicle identification number.

(vi) The FEL and the fleet-average standard to which the vehicle is certified.

(vii) Information on the point of first sale, including the purchaser, city, and state.

(3) The manufacturer must retain all records required to be maintained under this section for a period of eight years from the due date for the annual report. Records may be stored in any format and on any media, as long as manufacturers can promptly send EPA organized written records in English if we ask for them. Manufacturers must keep records readily available as EPA may review them at any time.

(4) The Administrator may require the manufacturer to retain additional records or submit information not specifically required by this section.

(5) EPA may void ab initio a certificate of conformity for a vehicle certified to emission standards as set forth or otherwise referenced in this subpart for which the manufacturer fails to retain the records required in this section, to provide such information to the Administrator upon request, or to submit the reports required in this section in the specified time period.
