
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1860-17 How to comply with the Tier 3 fleet-average standards.
######## Interim non-Tier 2 NO,credits and debits; Interim non-Tier 2 averaging, banking and trading.
############# § 86.1861-17 How do the NMOG + NOand evaporative emission credit programs work?

You may use emission credits for purposes of certification to show compliance with the applicable fleet-average NMOG + NOstandards from §§ 86.1811 and 86.1816 and the fleet-average evaporative emission standards from § 86.1813 as described in 40 CFR part 1037, subpart H, with certain exceptions and clarifications as specified in this section. MDPVs are subject to the same provisions of this section that apply to LDT4.

(a) Calculate emission credits as described in this paragraph (a) instead of using the provisions of 40 CFR 1037.705. Calculate positive or negative emission credits relative to the applicable fleet-average standard. Calculate positive emission credits if your fleet-average level is below the standard. Calculate negative emission credits if your fleet-average value is above the standard. Calculate credits separately for each type of standard and for each averaging set. Calculate emission credits using the following equation, rounded to the nearest whole number:

(b) The following restrictions apply instead of those specified in 40 CFR 1037.740:

(1) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, emission credits may be exchanged only within an averaging set, as follows:

(i) HDV represent a separate averaging set with respect to all emission standards.

(ii) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iii) of this section, LDV and LDT represent a single averaging set with respect to all emission standards. Note that FTP and SFTP credits are not interchangeable.

(iii) LDV and LDT1 certified to standards based on a useful life of 120,000 miles and 10 years together represent a single averaging set with respect to NMOG + NOemission standards. Note that FTP and SFTP credits are not interchangeable.

(iv) The following separate averaging sets apply for evaporative emission standards:

(A) LDV and LDT1 together represent a single averaging set.

(B) LDT2 represents a single averaging set.

(C) HLDT represents a single averaging set.

(D) HDV represents a single averaging set.

(2) You may exchange evaporative emission credits across averaging sets as follows if you need additional credits to offset a deficit after the final year of maintaining deficit credits as allowed under paragraph (c) of this section:

(i) You may exchange LDV/LDT1 and LDT2 emission credits.

(ii) You may exchange HLDT and HDV emission credits.

(3) Except as specified in paragraph (b)(4) of this section, credits expire after five years. For example, credits you generate in model year 2018 may be used only through model year 2023.

(4) For the Tier 3 declining fleet-average FTP and SFTP emission standards for NMOG + NOdescribed in § 86.1811-17(b)(8), credits generated in model years 2017 through 2024 expire after eight years, or after model year 2030, whichever comes first; however, these credits may not be traded after five years. This extended credit life also applies for small-volume manufacturers generating credits under § 86.1811-17(h)(1) in model years 2022 through 2024. Note that the longer credit life does not apply for heavy-duty vehicles, for vehicles certified under the alternate phase-in described in § 86.1811-17(b)(9), or for vehicles generating early Tier 3 credits under § 86.1811-17(b)(11) in model year 2017.

(c) The credit-deficit provisions 40 CFR 1037.745 apply to the NMOG + NOand evaporative emission standards for Tier 3 vehicles.

(d) The reporting and recordkeeping provisions of § 86.1862 apply instead of those specified in 40 CFR 1037.730 and 1037.735.

(e) The provisions of 40 CFR 1037.645 do not apply.
