
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Vehicle test procedure.

(k)(1) The test procedure for demonstrating compliance with cold temperature NMHC standards is contained in subpart C of this part. With prior EPA approval, alternative testing procedures may be used, as specified in § 86.106-96(a), provided cold temperature NMHC emissions test results are equivalent or superior.

(2) Testing of all LDVs, LDTs and MDPVs to determine compliance with cold temperature NMHC exhaust emission standards set forth in this section must be on a loaded vehicle weight (LVW) basis, as defined in § 86.1803-01.

(3) Testing for the purpose of providing certification data is required only at low altitude conditions and only for vehicles that can operate on gasoline, except as requested in §§ 86.1810-09(f) and 86.1844-01(d)(11). If hardware and software emission control strategies used during low altitude condition testing are not used similarly across all altitudes for in-use operation, the manufacturer must include a statement in the application for certification, in accordance with §§ 86.1844-01(d)(11) and 86.1810-09(f), stating what the different strategies are and why they are used. If hardware and software emission control strategies used during testing with gasoline are not used similarly with all fuels that can be used in multi-fuel vehicles, the manufacturer will include a statement in the application for certification, in accordance with §§ 86.1844-01(d)(11) and 86.1810-09(f), stating what the different strategies are and why they are used. For example, unless a manufacturer states otherwise, air pumps used to control emissions on dedicated gasoline vehicles or multi-fuel vehicles during low altitude conditions must also be used to control emissions at high altitude conditions, and software used to control emissions or closed loop operation must also operate similarly at low and high altitude conditions and similarly when multi-fueled vehicles are operated on gasoline and alternate fuels. These examples are for illustrative purposes only; similar strategies would apply to other currently used emission control technologies and/or emerging or future technologies.
