
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Certification compliance and enforcement requirements for cold temperature NMHC standards.

(n)(1) Compliance and enforcement requirements are provided in ยง 86.1864-10 and ยง 86.1848-10(c)(8).

(2) The certificate issued for each test group requires all vehicles within that test group to meet the emission standard or FEL to which the vehicles were certified.

(3) Each manufacturer must comply with the applicable cold temperature NMHC fleet average standard on a sales-weighted average basis, at the end of each model year, using the procedure described in paragraph (m) of this section.

(4) During a phase-in year, the manufacturer must comply with the applicable cold temperature NMHC fleet average standard for the required phase-in percentage for that year as specified in ยง 86.1811-10(g)(3) or (4).

(5) Manufacturers must compute separate cold temperature NMHC fleet averages for LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs. The sales-weighted cold temperature NMHC fleet averages must be compared with the applicable fleet average standard.

(6) Each manufacturer must comply on an annual basis with the fleet average standards as follows:

(i) Manufacturers must report in their annual reports to the Agency that they met the relevant corporate average standard by showing that their sales-weighted average cold temperature NMHC emissions of LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs, as applicable, are at or below the applicable fleet average standard;

(ii) If the sales-weighted average is above the applicable fleet average standard, manufacturers must obtain and apply sufficient NMHC credits as permitted under paragraph (o)(8) of this section. A manufacturer must show via the use of credits that they have offset any exceedence of the corporate average standard. Manufacturers must also include their credit balances or deficits.

(iii) If a manufacturer fails to meet the corporate average cold temperature NMHC standard for two consecutive years, the vehicles causing the corporate average exceedence will be considered not covered by the certificate of conformity (see paragraph (o)(8) of this section). A manufacturer will be subject to penalties on an individual-vehicle basis for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate.

(iv) EPA will review each manufacturer's sales to designate the vehicles that caused the exceedence of the corporate average standard. EPA will designate as nonconforming those vehicles in test groups with the highest certification emission values first, continuing until reaching a number of vehicles equal to the calculated number of noncomplying vehicles as determined above. In a group where only a portion of vehicles would be deemed nonconforming, EPA will determine the actual nonconforming vehicles by counting backwards from the last vehicle produced in that test group. Manufacturers will be liable for penalties for each vehicle sold that is not covered by a certificate.
