
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Requirements for the cold temperature NMHC averaging, banking and trading (ABT) program.

(o)(1) Manufacturers must average the cold temperature NMHC emissions of their vehicles and comply with the cold temperature NMHC fleet average corporate standard. Manufacturers may generate credits during and after the phase-in period. Manufacturers may generate credits prior to the phase-in periods as described in paragraph (o)(5) of this section. A manufacturer whose cold temperature NMHC fleet average emissions exceed the applicable standard must complete the calculation in paragraph (o)(4) of this section to determine the size of its NMHC credit deficit. A manufacturer whose cold temperature NMHC fleet average emissions are less than the applicable standard must complete the calculation in paragraph (o)(4) of this section to generate NMHC credits.

(2) There are no property rights associated with NMHC credits generated under this subpart. Credits are a limited authorization to emit the designated amount of emissions. Nothing in this part or any other provision of law should be construed to limit EPA's authority to terminate or limit this authorization through a rulemaking.

(3) Each manufacturer must comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (p) of this section for NMHC credits, including early credits. The averaging, banking and trading program is enforceable through the certificate of conformity that allows the manufacturer to introduce any regulated vehicles into commerce.

(4) Credits are earned on the last day of the model year. Manufacturers must calculate, for a given model year, the number of credits or debits it has generated according to the following equation, rounded to the nearest 0.1 grams/mile:

(5) The following provisions apply for early banking:

(i) Manufacturers may certify LDV/LLDTs to the cold temperature NMHC exhaust standards in ยง 86.1811-10(g)(2) for model years 2008-2009 to bank credits for use in the 2010 and later model years. Manufacturers may certify HLDT/MDPVs to the cold temperature NMHC exhaust standards in ยง 86.1811-10(g)(2) for model years 2010-2011 to bank credits for use in the 2012 and later model years.

(ii) This process is referred to as "early banking" and the resultant credits are referred to as "early credits." To bank early credits, a manufacturer must comply with all exhaust emission standards and requirements applicable to LDV/LLDTs and/or HLDT/MDPVs. To generate early credits, a manufacturer must separately compute the sales-weighted cold temperature NMHC average of the LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs it certifies to the exhaust requirements and separately compute credits using the calculations in paragraph (o)(4) of this section. Early HLDT/MDPV credits may not be applied to LDV/LLDTs before the 2010 model year. Early LDV/LLDT credits may not be applied to HLDT/ MDPV before the 2012 model year.

(6) NMHC credits are not subject to any discount or expiration date except as required under the deficit carryforward provisions of paragraph (o)(8) of this section. There is no discounting of unused credits. NMHC credits have unlimited lives, subject to the limitations of paragraph (o)(2) of this section.

(7) Credits may be used as follows:

(i) Credits generated and calculated according to the method in paragraph (o)(4) of this section may be used only to offset deficits accrued with respect to the standard in ยง 86.1811-10(g)(2). Credits may be banked and used in a future model year in which a manufacturer's average cold temperature NMHC level exceeds the applicable standard. Credits may be exchanged between the LDT/LLDT and HLDT/MDPV fleets of a given manufacturer. Credits may also be traded to another manufacturer according to the provisions in paragraph (o)(9) of this section. Before trading or carrying over credits to the next model year, a manufacturer must apply available credits to offset any credit deficit, where the deadline to offset that credit deficit has not yet passed.

(ii) The use of credits shall not be permitted to address Selective Enforcement Auditing or in-use testing failures. The enforcement of the averaging standard occurs through the vehicle's certificate of conformity. A manufacturer's certificate of conformity is conditioned upon compliance with the averaging provisions. The certificate will be void ab initio if a manufacturer fails to meet the corporate average standard and does not obtain appropriate credits to cover its shortfalls in that model year or in the subsequent model year (see deficit carryforward provision in paragraph (o)(8) of this section). Manufacturers must track their certification levels and sales unless they produce only vehicles certified to cold temperature NMHC levels below the standard and do not plan to bank credits.

(8) The following provisions apply if debits are accrued:

(i) If a manufacturer calculates that it has negative credits (also called "debits" or a "credit deficit") for a given model year, it may carry that deficit forward into the next model year. Such a carry-forward may only occur after the manufacturer exhausts any supply of banked credits. At the end of that next model year, the deficit must be covered with an appropriate number of credits that the manufacturer generates or purchases. Any remaining deficit is subject to an enforcement action, as described in this paragraph (o)(8). Manufacturers are not permitted to have a credit deficit for two consecutive years.

(ii) If debits are not offset within the specified time period, the number of vehicles not meeting the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards (and therefore not covered by the certificate) must be calculated by dividing the total amount of debits for the model year by the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standard applicable for the model year in which the debits were first incurred.

(iii) EPA will determine the number of vehicles for which the condition on the certificate was not satisfied by designating vehicles in those test groups with the highest certification cold temperature NMHC emission values first and continuing until reaching a number of vehicles equal to the calculated number of noncomplying vehicles as determined above. If this calculation determines that only a portion of vehicles in a test group contribute to the debit situation, then EPA will designate actual vehicles in that test group as not covered by the certificate, starting with the last vehicle produced and counting backwards.

(iv)(A) If a manufacturer ceases production of LDV/LLDTs and HLDT/MDPVs, the manufacturer continues to be responsible for offsetting any debits outstanding within the required time period. Any failure to offset the debits will be considered a violation of paragraph (o)(8)(i) of this section and may subject the manufacturer to an enforcement action for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate, pursuant to paragraphs (o)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(B) If a manufacturer is purchased by, merges with, or otherwise combines with another manufacturer, the controlling entity is responsible for offsetting any debits outstanding within the required time period. Any failure to offset the debits will be considered a violation of paragraph (o)(8)(i) of this section and may subject the manufacturer to an enforcement action for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate, pursuant to paragraphs (o)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(v) For purposes of calculating the statute of limitations, a violation of the requirements of paragraph (o)(8)(i) of this section, a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which a certificate(s) was issued and hence a sale of vehicles not covered by the certificate, all occur upon the expiration of the deadline for offsetting debits specified in paragraph (o)(8)(i) of this section.

(9) The following provisions apply to NMHC credit trading:

(i) EPA may reject NMHC credit trades if the involved manufacturers fail to submit the credit trade notification in the annual report. A manufacturer may not sell credits that are not available for sale pursuant to the provisions in paragraphs (o)(7)(i) of this section.

(ii) In the event of a negative credit balance resulting from a transaction that a manufacturer could not cover by the reporting deadline for the model year in which the trade occurred, both the buyer and seller are liable, except in cases involving fraud. EPA may void ab initio the certificates of conformity of all engine families participating in such a trade.

(iii) A manufacturer may only trade credits that it has generated pursuant to paragraph (o)(4) of this section or acquired from another party.
