
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Certification compliance and enforcement requirements for CO,exhaust emission standards.

(j)

(1) Compliance and enforcement requirements are provided in this section and § 86.1848-10(c)(9).

(2) The certificate issued for each test group requires all model types within that test group to meet the in-use emission standards to which each model type is certified. The in-use standards for passenger automobiles and light duty trucks (including MDPV) are described in § 86.1818-12(d). The in-use standards for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles are described in § 86.1819-14(b).

(3) Each manufacturer must comply with the applicable COfleet average standard on a production-weighted average basis, at the end of each model year. Use the procedure described in paragraph (i) of this section for passenger automobiles and light trucks (including MDPV). Use the procedure described in § 86.1819-14(d)(9)(iv) for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles.

(4) Each manufacturer must comply on an annual basis with the fleet average standards as follows:

(i) Manufacturers must report in their annual reports to the Agency that they met the relevant corporate average standard by showing that the applicable production-weighted average COemission levels are at or below the applicable fleet average standards; or

(ii) If the production-weighted average is above the applicable fleet average standard, manufacturers must obtain and apply sufficient COcredits as authorized under paragraph (k)(8) of this section. A manufacturer must show that they have offset any exceedance of the corporate average standard via the use of credits. Manufacturers must also include their credit balances or deficits in their annual report to the Agency.
