
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Maintenance of records and submittal of information relevant to compliance with fleet average CO,standards,Maintenance of records.

(l)-(1)(i) Manufacturers producing any light-duty vehicles, light-duty trucks, medium-duty passenger vehicles, or other heavy-duty vehicles subject to the provisions in this subpart must establish, maintain, and retain all the following information in adequately organized records for each model year:

(A) Model year.

(B) Applicable fleet average COstandards for each averaging set as defined in paragraph (i) of this section.

(C) The calculated fleet average COvalue for each averaging set as defined in paragraph (i) of this section.

(D) All values used in calculating the fleet average COvalues.

(ii) Manufacturers must establish, maintain, and retain all the following information in adequately organized records for each vehicle produced that is subject to the provisions in this subpart:

(A) Model year.

(B) Applicable fleet average COstandard.

(C) EPA test group.

(D) Assembly plant.

(E) Vehicle identification number.

(F) Carbon-related exhaust emission standard (automobile and light truck only), NO emission standard, and CHemission standard to which the vehicle is certified.

(G) In-use carbon-related exhaust emission standard for passenger automobiles and light truck, and in-use COstandard for HDV.

(H) Information on the point of first sale, including the purchaser, city, and state.

(iii) Manufacturers must retain all required records for a period of eight years from the due date for the annual report. Records may be stored in any format and on any media, as long as manufacturers can promptly send EPA organized written records in English if requested by the Administrator. Manufacturers must keep records readily available as EPA may review them at any time.

(iv) The Administrator may require the manufacturer to retain additional records or submit information not specifically required by this section.

(v) Pursuant to a request made by the Administrator, the manufacturer must submit to the Administrator the information that the manufacturer is required to retain.

(vi) EPA may void ab initio a certificate of conformity for vehicles certified to emission standards as set forth or otherwise referenced in this subpart for which the manufacturer fails to retain the records required in this section or to provide such information to the Administrator upon request, or to submit the reports required in this section in the specified time period.
