
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Reporting.

(2)(i) Each manufacturer must submit an annual report. The annual report must contain for each applicable COstandard, the calculated fleet average COvalue, all values required to calculate the COemissions value, the number of credits generated or debits incurred, all the values required to calculate the credits or debits, and the resulting balance of credits or debits. For each applicable alternative NO and/or CHstandard selected under the provisions of § 86.1818-12(f)(3) for passenger automobiles and light trucks (or § 86.1819-14(c) for HDV), the report must contain the CO-equivalent debits for NO and/or CHcalculated according to § 86.1818-12(f)(4) (or § 86.1819-14(c) for HDV) for each test group and all values required to calculate the number of debits incurred.

(ii) For each applicable fleet average COstandard, the annual report must also include documentation on all credit transactions the manufacturer has engaged in since those included in the last report. Information for each transaction must include all of the following:

(A) Name of credit provider.

(B) Name of credit recipient.

(C) Date the trade occurred.

(D) Quantity of credits traded in megagrams.

(E) Model year in which the credits were earned.

(iii) Manufacturers calculating air conditioning leakage and/or efficiency credits under paragraph § 86.1871-12(b) shall include the following information for each model year and separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks and for each air conditioning system used to generate credits:

(A) A description of the air conditioning system.

(B) The leakage credit value and all the information required to determine this value.

(C) The total credits earned for each averaging set, model year, and region, as applicable.

(iv) Manufacturers calculating advanced technology vehicle credits under paragraph § 86.1871-12(c) shall include the following information for each model year and separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks:

(A) The number of each model type of eligible vehicle sold.

(B) The cumulative model year production of eligible vehicles starting with the 2009 model year.

(C) The carbon-related exhaust emission value by model type and model year.

(v) Manufacturers calculating off-cycle technology credits under paragraph § 86.1871-12(d) shall include, for each model year and separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, all test results and data required for calculating such credits.

(vi) Unless a manufacturer reports the data required by this section in the annual production report required under § 86.1844-01(e) or the annual report required under § 600.512-12 of this chapter, a manufacturer must submit an annual report for each model year after production ends for all affected vehicles produced by the manufacturer subject to the provisions of this subpart and no later than May 1 of the calendar year following the given model year. Annual reports must be submitted to: Director, Compliance Division, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, 2000 Traverwood Dr., Ann Arbor, Michigan 48105.

(vii) Failure by a manufacturer to submit the annual report in the specified time period for all vehicles subject to the provisions in this section is a violation of section 203(a)(1) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7522 (a)(1)) for each applicable vehicle produced by that manufacturer.

(viii) If EPA or the manufacturer determines that a reporting error occurred on an annual report previously submitted to EPA, the manufacturer's credit or debit calculations will be recalculated. EPA may void erroneous credits, unless traded, and will adjust erroneous debits. In the case of traded erroneous credits, EPA must adjust the selling manufacturer's credit balance to reflect the sale of such credits and any resulting credit deficit.
