
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Requirements for the CO,averaging, banking and trading (ABT) program.

(k)(1) A manufacturer whose COfleet average emissions exceed the applicable standard must complete the calculation in paragraph (k)(4) of this section to determine the size of its COdeficit. A manufacturer whose COfleet average emissions are less than the applicable standard may complete the calculation in paragraph (k)(4) of this section to generate COcredits. In either case, the number of credits or debits must be rounded to the nearest whole number.

(2) There are no property rights associated with COcredits generated under this subpart. Credits are a limited authorization to emit the designated amount of emissions. Nothing in this part or any other provision of law shall be construed to limit EPA's authority to terminate or limit this authorization through a rulemaking.

(3) Each manufacturer must comply with the reporting and recordkeeping requirements of paragraph (l) of this section for COcredits, including early credits. The averaging, banking and trading program is enforceable as provided in paragraphs (k)(7)(ii), (k)(9)(iii), and (l)(1)(vi) of this section through the certificate of conformity that allows the manufacturer to introduce any regulated vehicles into U.S. commerce.

(4) Credits are earned on the last day of the model year. Manufacturers must calculate, for a given model year and separately for passenger automobiles, light trucks, and heavy-duty vehicles, the number of credits or debits it has generated according to the following equation rounded to the nearest megagram:

(5) Determine total HDV debits and credits for a model year as described in § 86.1819-14(d)(6). Determine total passenger car and light truck debits and credits for a model year as described in this paragraph (k)(5). Total credits or debits generated in a model year, maintained and reported separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, shall be the sum of the credits or debits calculated in paragraph (k)(4) of this section and any of the following credits, if applicable, minus any CO-equivalent debits for NO and/or CHcalculated according to the provisions of § 86.1818-12(f)(4):

(i) Air conditioning leakage credits earned according to the provisions of § 86.1867-12(b).

(ii) Air conditioning efficiency credits earned according to the provisions of § 86.1868-12(c).

(iii) Off-cycle technology credits earned according to the provisions of § 86.1869-12(d).

(iv) Full size pickup truck credits earned according to the provisions of § 86.1870-12(c).

(v) Advanced technology vehicle credits earned according to the provisions of § 86.1866-12(b)(3).

(vi) CO-equivalent debits for NO and/or CHaccumulated according to the provisions of § 86.1818-12(f)(4).

(6) Unused COcredits generally retain their full value through five model years after the model year in which they were generated; credits remaining at the end of the fifth model year after the model year in which they were generated may not be used to demonstrate compliance for later model years. However, in the case of model year 2017 and 2018 passenger cars and light trucks, unused COcredits retain their full value through six model years after the year in which they were generated.

(7) Credits may be used as follows:

(i) Credits generated and calculated according to the method in paragraphs (k)(4) and (5) of this section may not be used to offset deficits other than those deficits accrued within the respective averaging set, except that credits may be transferred between the passenger automobile and light truck fleets of a given manufacturer. Credits may be banked and used in a future model year in which a manufacturer's average COlevel exceeds the applicable standard. Credits may also be traded to another manufacturer according to the provisions in paragraph (k)(8) of this section. Before trading or carrying over credits to the next model year, a manufacturer must apply available credits to offset any deficit, where the deadline to offset that credit deficit has not yet passed. This paragraph (k)(7)(i) applies for MDPV, but not for other HDV.

(ii) The use of credits shall not change Selective Enforcement Auditing or in-use testing failures from a failure to a non-failure. The enforcement of the averaging standard occurs through the vehicle's certificate of conformity as described in paragraph (k)(8) of this section. A manufacturer's certificate of conformity is conditioned upon compliance with the averaging provisions. The certificate will be void ab initio if a manufacturer fails to meet the corporate average standard and does not obtain appropriate credits to cover its shortfalls in that model year or subsequent model years (see deficit carry-forward provisions in paragraph (k)(8) of this section).

(iii) The following provisions apply for passenger automobiles and light trucks under the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards:

(A) Credits generated by vehicles subject to the fleet average COstandards specified in § 86.1818-12(c) may only be used to offset a deficit generated by vehicles subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards specified in § 86.1818-12(e).

(B) Credits generated by a passenger automobile or light truck averaging set subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards specified in § 86.1818-12(e)(4)(i) or (ii) may be used to offset a deficit generated by an averaging set subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards through the 2015 model year, except that manufacturers qualifying under the provisions of § 86.1818-12(e)(3) may use such credits to offset a deficit generated by an averaging set subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards through the 2016 model year.

(C) Credits generated by an averaging set subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards specified in § 86.1818-12(e)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section may not be used to offset a deficit generated by an averaging set subject to the fleet average COstandards specified in § 86.1818-12(c)(2) or (3) or otherwise transferred to an averaging set subject to the fleet average COstandards specified in § 86.1818-12(c)(2) or (3).

(D) Credits generated by vehicles subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards specified in § 86.1818-12(e)(4)(i) or (ii) may be banked for use in a future model year (to offset a deficit generated by an averaging set subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards). All such credits may not be used to demonstrate compliance for model year 2016 and later vehicles, except that manufacturers qualifying under the provisions of § 86.1818-12(e)(3) may use such credits to offset a deficit generated by an averaging set subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards through the 2016 model year.

(E) A manufacturer with any vehicles subject to the Temporary Leadtime Allowance Alternative Standards specified in § 86.1818-12(e)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section in a model year in which that manufacturer also generates credits with vehicles subject to the fleet average COstandards specified in § 86.1818-12(c) may not trade or bank credits earned against the fleet average standards in § 86.1818-12(c) for use in a future model year.

(iv) Credits generated in the 2017 through 2020 model years under the provisions of § 86.1818-12(e)(3)(ii) may not be traded or otherwise provided to another manufacturer.

(v) Credits generated under any alternative fleet average standards approved under § 86.1818-12(g) may not be traded or otherwise provided to another manufacturer.

(8) The following provisions apply if a manufacturer calculates that it has negative credits (also called "debits" or a "credit deficit") for a given model year:

(i) The manufacturer may carry the credit deficit forward into the next three model years. Such a carry-forward may only occur after the manufacturer exhausts any supply of banked credits. The deficit must be covered with an appropriate number of credits that the manufacturer generates or purchases by the end of the third model year. Any remaining deficit is subject to a voiding of the certificate ab initio, as described in this paragraph (k)(8). Manufacturers are not permitted to have a credit deficit for four consecutive years.

(ii) If the credit deficit is not offset within the specified time period, the number of vehicles not meeting the fleet average COstandards (and therefore not covered by the certificate) must be calculated.

(A) Determine the negative credits for the noncompliant vehicle category by multiplying the total megagram deficit by 1,000,000 and then dividing by the mileage specified in paragraph (k)(4) of this section.

(B) Divide the result by the fleet average standard applicable to the model year in which the debits were first incurred and round to the nearest whole number to determine the number of vehicles not meeting the fleet average COstandards.

(iii) EPA will determine the vehicles not covered by a certificate because the condition on the certificate was not satisfied by designating vehicles in those test groups with the highest carbon-related exhaust emission values first and continuing until reaching a number of vehicles equal to the calculated number of non-complying vehicles as determined in this paragraph (k)(8). The same approach applies for HDV, except that EPA will make these designations by ranking test groups based on COemission values. If these calculations determines that only a portion of vehicles in a test group contribute to the debit situation, then EPA will designate actual vehicles in that test group as not covered by the certificate, starting with the last vehicle produced and counting backwards.

(iv)(A) If a manufacturer ceases production of passenger automobiles, light trucks, or heavy-duty vehicles, the manufacturer continues to be responsible for offsetting any debits outstanding within the required time period. Any failure to offset the debits will be considered a violation of paragraph (k)(8)(i) of this section and may subject the manufacturer to an enforcement action for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate, pursuant to paragraphs (k)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(B) If a manufacturer is purchased by, merges with, or otherwise combines with another manufacturer, the controlling entity is responsible for offsetting any debits outstanding within the required time period. Any failure to offset the debits will be considered a violation of paragraph (k)(8)(i) of this section and may subject the manufacturer to an enforcement action for sale of vehicles not covered by a certificate, pursuant to paragraphs (k)(8)(ii) and (iii) of this section.

(v) For purposes of calculating the statute of limitations, a violation of the requirements of paragraph (k)(8)(i) of this section, a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which a certificate(s) was issued and hence a sale of vehicles not covered by the certificate, all occur upon the expiration of the deadline for offsetting debits specified in paragraph (k)(8)(i) of this section.

(9) The following provisions apply to COcredit trading:

(i) EPA may reject COcredit trades if the involved manufacturers fail to submit the credit trade notification in the annual report.

(ii) A manufacturer may not sell credits that are no longer valid for demonstrating compliance based on the model years of the subject vehicles, as specified in paragraph (k)(6) of this section.

(iii) In the event of a negative credit balance resulting from a transaction, both the buyer and seller are liable for the credit shortfall. EPA may void ab initio the certificates of conformity of all test groups that generate or use credits in such a trade.

(iv)(A) If a manufacturer trades a credit that it has not generated pursuant to this paragraph (k) or acquired from another party, the manufacturer will be considered to have generated a debit in the model year that the manufacturer traded the credit. The manufacturer must offset such debits by the deadline for the annual report for that same model year.

(B) Failure to offset the debits within the required time period will be considered a failure to satisfy the conditions upon which the certificate(s) was issued and will be addressed pursuant to paragraph (k)(8) of this section.

(v) A manufacturer may only trade credits that it has generated pursuant to paragraphs (k)(4) and (5) of this section or acquired from another party.
