
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## AC17 validation testing and reporting requirements.

(g)For 2020 and later model years, manufacturers must validate air conditioning credits by using the AC17 Test Procedure in 40 CFR 1066.845 as follows:

(1) For each air conditioning system (as defined in ยง 86.1803) selected by the manufacturer to generate air conditioning efficiency credits, the manufacturer shall perform the AC17 Air Conditioning Efficiency Test Procedure specified in 40 CFR 1066.845, according to the requirements of this paragraph (g).

(2) Complete the following testing and calculations:

(i) Perform the AC17 test on a vehicle that incorporates the air conditioning system with the credit-generating technologies.

(ii) Perform the AC17 test on a vehicle which does not incorporate the credit-generating technologies. The tested vehicle must be similar to the vehicle tested under paragraph (g)(2)(i) of this section and selected using good engineering judgment. The tested vehicle may be from an earlier design generation. If the manufacturer cannot identify an appropriate vehicle to test under this paragraph (g)(2)(ii), they may submit an engineering analysis that describes why an appropriate vehicle is not available or not appropriate, and includes data and information supporting specific credit values, using good engineering judgment.

(iii) Subtract the COemissions determined from testing under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section from the COemissions determined from testing under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section and round to the nearest 0.1 grams/mile. If the result is less than or equal to zero, the air conditioning system is not eligible to generate credits. If the result is greater than or equal to the total of the gram per mile credits determined in paragraph (b) of this section, then the air conditioning system is eligible to generate the maximum allowable value determined in paragraph (b) of this section. If the result is greater than zero but less than the total of the gram per mile credits determined in paragraph (b) of this section, then the air conditioning system is eligible to generate credits in the amount determined by subtracting the COemissions determined from testing under paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section from the COemissions determined from testing under paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section and rounding to the nearest 0.1 grams/mile.
