
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Notice of opportunity for hearing.
############# § 86.1868-12 COcredits for improving the efficiency of air conditioning systems.

Manufacturers may generate credits applicable to the COfleet average program described in § 86.1865-12 by implementing specific air conditioning system technologies designed to reduce air conditioning-related COemissions over the useful life of their passenger automobiles and/or light trucks (including MDPV). The provisions of this section do not apply for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles. Credits shall be calculated according to this section for each air conditioning system that the manufacturer is using to generate COcredits. Manufacturers may also generate early air conditioning efficiency credits under this section for the 2009 through 2011 model years according to the provisions of § 86.1871-12(b). For model years 2012 and 2013 the manufacturer may determine air conditioning efficiency credits using the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section. For model years 2014 through 2016 the eligibility requirements specified in either paragraph (e) or (f) of this section must be met before an air conditioning system is allowed to generate credits. For model years 2017 through 2019 the eligibility requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section must be met before an air conditioning system is allowed to generate credits. For model years 2020 and later the eligibility requirements specified in paragraph (g) of this section must be met before an air conditioning system is allowed to generate credits.

(a)(1) 2012 through 2016 model year air conditioning efficiency credits are available for the following technologies in the gram per mile amounts indicated in the following table:

(2) 2017 and later model year air conditioning efficiency credits are available for the following technologies in the gram per mile amounts indicated for each vehicle category in the following table:

(b) Air conditioning efficiency credits are determined on an air conditioning system basis. For each air conditioning system that is eligible for a credit based on the use of one or more of the items listed in paragraph (a) of this section, the total credit value is the sum of the gram per mile values for the appropriate model year listed in paragraph (a) of this section for each item that applies to the air conditioning system.

(1) In the 2012 through 2016 model years the total credit value for an air conditioning system for passenger automobiles or light trucks may not be greater than 5.7 grams per mile.

(2) In the 2017 and later model years the total credit value for an air conditioning system may not be greater than 5.0 grams per mile for any passenger automobile or 7.2 grams per mile for any light truck.

(c) The total efficiency credits generated by an air conditioning system shall be calculated separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks according to the following formula:

(d) The results of paragraph (c) of this section, rounded to the nearest whole number, shall be included in the manufacturer's credit/debit totals calculated in § 86.1865-12(k)(5).

(e) For the 2014 through 2016 model years, manufacturers must validate air conditioning credits by using the Air Conditioning Idle Test Procedure according to the provisions of this paragraph (e) or, alternatively, by using the AC17 reporting requirements specified in paragraph (f) of this section. The Air Conditioning Idle Test Procedure is not applicable after the 2016 model year.

(1) For each air conditioning system selected by the manufacturer to generate air conditioning efficiency credits, the manufacturer shall perform the Air Conditioning Idle Test Procedure specified in § 86.165-12 of this part.

(2) Using good engineering judgment, the manufacturer must select the vehicle configuration to be tested that is expected to result in the greatest increased COemissions as a result of the operation of the air conditioning system for which efficiency credits are being sought. If the air conditioning system is being installed in passenger automobiles and light trucks, a separate determination of the quantity of credits for passenger automobiles and light trucks must be made, but only one test vehicle is required to represent the air conditioning system, provided it represents the worst-case impact of the system on COemissions.

(3) The manufacturer shall determine an idle test threshold (ITT) for the tested vehicle configuration. A comparison of this threshold value with the COemissions increase recorded over the Air Conditioning Idle Test Procedure in § 86.165-12 determines the total credits that may be generated by an air conditioning system. The manufacturer may choose one of the following idle test threshold (ITT) values for an air conditioning system:

(i) 14.9 grams per minute; or

(ii) The value determined from the following equation, rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per minute:

(4)(i) If the COemissions value determined from the Idle Test Procedure in § 86.165-12 is less than or equal to the idle test threshold (ITT) determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the total COefficiency credit value (Credit) for use in paragraph (c) of this section shall be the applicable value determined in paragraph (b) of this section.

(ii) If the COemissions value determined from the Idle Test Procedure in § 86.165-12 is greater than the idle test threshold (ITT) determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the total COefficiency credit value (Credit) for use in paragraph (c) of this section shall be determined using the following formula:

(iii) Air conditioning systems that record an increased COemissions value on the Idle Test Procedure in § 86.165-14 that is greater than or equal to the idle test threshold (ITT) determined in paragraph (e)(3) of this section plus 6.4 grams per minute are not eligible for an air conditioning efficiency credit.

(5) Air conditioning systems with compressors that are solely powered by electricity shall submit Air Conditioning Idle Test Procedure data to be eligible to generate credits in the 2014 and later model years, but such systems are not required to meet a specific threshold to be eligible to generate such credits, as long as the engine remains off for a period of at least 2 cumulative minutes during the air conditioning on portion of the Idle Test Procedure in § 86.165-12(d).
