
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Notice of opportunity for hearing.
############# § 86.1867-12 COcredits for reducing leakage of air conditioning refrigerant.

Manufacturers may generate credits applicable to the COfleet average program described in § 86.1865-12 by implementing specific air conditioning system technologies designed to reduce air conditioning refrigerant leakage over the useful life of their passenger automobiles and/or light trucks (including MDPV); only the provisions of paragraph (a) of this section apply for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles. Credits shall be calculated according to this section for each air conditioning system that the manufacturer is using to generate COcredits. Manufacturers may also generate early air conditioning refrigerant leakage credits under this section for the 2009 through 2011 model years according to the provisions of § 86.1871-12(b).

(a) The manufacturer shall calculate an annual rate of refrigerant leakage from an air conditioning system in grams per year according to the procedures specified in SAE J2727 (incorporated by reference in § 86.1). In doing so, the refrigerant permeation rates for hoses shall be determined using the procedures specified in SAE J2064 (incorporated by reference in § 86.1) The annual rate of refrigerant leakage from an air conditioning system shall be rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per year. The procedures of SAE J2727 may be used to determine leakage rates for HFC-134a and HFO-1234yf; manufacturers should contact EPA regarding procedures for other refrigerants. The annual rate of refrigerant leakage from an air conditioning system shall be rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per year.

(b) The CO-equivalent gram per mile leakage reduction used to calculate the total leakage credits generated by an air conditioning system shall be determined according to this paragraph (b), separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, and rounded to the nearest tenth of a gram per mile:

(1) Passenger automobile leakage credit for an air conditioning system:

(2) Light truck leakage credit for an air conditioning system:

(c) The total leakage reduction credits generated by the air conditioning system shall be calculated separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks according to the following formula:

(d) The results of paragraph (c) of this section, rounded to the nearest whole number, shall be included in the manufacturer's credit/debit totals calculated in § 86.1865-12(k)(5).

(e) The following values for refrigerant global warming potential (GWP), or alternative values as determined by the Administrator, shall be used in the calculations of this section. The Administrator will determine values for refrigerants not included in this paragraph (e) upon request by a manufacturer.

(1) For HFC-134a, GWP= 1430;

(2) For HFC-152a, GWP= 124;

(3) For HFO-1234yf, GWP= 4;

(4) For CO, GWP= 1.
