
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## e.g.,

(3) For the first model year for which an air conditioning system is expected to generate credits, the manufacturer must select for testing the projected highest-selling configuration within each combination of vehicle platform and air conditioning system (as those terms are defined in ยง 86.1803). The manufacturer must test at least one unique air conditioning system within each vehicle platform in a model year, unless all unique air conditioning systems within a vehicle platform have been previously tested. A unique air conditioning system design is a system with unique or substantially different component designs or types and/or system control strategies (fixed-displacement vs. variable displacement compressors, orifice tube vs. thermostatic expansion valve, single vs. dual evaporator, etc.). In the first year of such testing, the tested vehicle configuration shall be the highest production vehicle configuration within each platform. In subsequent model years the manufacturer must test other unique air conditioning systems within the vehicle platform, proceeding from the highest production untested system until all unique air conditioning systems within the platform have been tested, or until the vehicle platform experiences a major redesign. Whenever a new unique air conditioning system is tested, the highest production configuration using that system shall be the vehicle selected for testing. Credits may continue to be generated by the air conditioning system installed in a vehicle platform provided that:

(i) The air conditioning system components and/or control strategies do not change in any way that could be expected to cause a change in its efficiency;

(ii) The vehicle platform does not change in design such that the changes could be expected to cause a change in the efficiency of the air conditioning system; and

(iii) The manufacturer continues to test at least one unique air conditioning system within each platform using the air conditioning system, in each model year, until all unique air conditioning systems within each platform have been tested.

(4) Each air conditioning system must be tested and must meet the testing criteria in order to be allowed to generate credits. Credits may continue to be generated by an air conditioning system in subsequent model years if the manufacturer continues to test at least one unique air conditioning system within each platform on an annual basis, unless all systems have been previously tested, as long as the air conditioning system and vehicle platform do not change substantially.

(5) AC17 testing requirements apply as follows for electric vehicles and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles:

(i) Manufacturers may omit AC17 testing for electric vehicles. Electric vehicles may qualify for air conditioning efficiency credits based on identified technologies, without testing. The application for certification must include a detailed description of the vehicle's air conditioning system and identify any technology items eligible for air conditioning efficiency credits. Include additional supporting information to justify the air conditioning credit for each technology.

(ii) The provisions of paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section also apply for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles if they have an all electric range of at least 60 miles (combined city and highway) after adjustment to reflect actual in-use driving conditions (see 40 CFR 600.311(j)), and they do not rely on the engine to cool the vehicle's cabin for the ambient and driving conditions represented by the AC17 test.

(iii) If AC17 testing is required for plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, perform this testing in charge-sustaining mode.

(h) The following definitions apply to this section:
