
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Advanced technology air conditioning compressor
############# ยง 86.1869-12 COcredits for off-cycle COreducing technologies.

This section describes how manufacturers may generate credits for off-cycle CO-reducing technologies. The provisions of this section do not apply for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles, except that ยง 86.1819-14(d)(13) describes how to apply paragraphs (c) and (d) of this section for those vehicles.

(a) Manufacturers may generate credits for CO-reducing technologies where the COreduction benefit of the technology is not adequately captured on the Federal Test Procedure and/or the Highway Fuel Economy Test such that the technology would not be otherwise installed for purposes of reducing emissions (directly or indirectly) over those test cycles for compliance with the GHG standards. These technologies must have a measurable, demonstrable, and verifiable real-world COreduction that occurs outside the conditions of the Federal Test Procedure and the Highway Fuel Economy Test. These optional credits are referred to as "off-cycle" credits. The technologies must not be integral or inherent to the basic vehicle design, such as engine, transmission, mass reduction, passive aerodynamic design, and tire technologies. Technologies installed for non-off-cycle emissions related reasons are also not eligible as they would be considered part of the baseline vehicle design. The technology must not be inherent to the design of occupant comfort and entertainment features except for technologies related to reducing passenger air conditioning demand and improving air conditioning system efficiency. Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph (a), off-cycle menu technologies included in paragraph (b) of this section remain eligible for credits. Off-cycle technologies used to generate emission credits are considered emission-related components subject to applicable requirements and must be demonstrated to be effective for the full useful life of the vehicle. Unless the manufacturer demonstrates that the technology is not subject to in-use deterioration, the manufacturer must account for the deterioration in their analysis. Durability evaluations of off-cycle technologies may occur at any time throughout a model year, provided that the results can be factored into the data provided in the model year report. Off-cycle credits may not be approved for crash-avoidance technologies, safety critical systems or systems affecting safety-critical functions, or technologies designed for the purpose of reducing the frequency of vehicle crashes. Off-cycle credits may not be earned for technologies installed on a motor vehicle to attain compliance with any vehicle safety standard or any regulation set forth in Title 49 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The manufacturer must use one of the three options specified in this section to determine the COgram per mile credit applicable to an off-cycle technology. Note that the option provided in paragraph (b) of this section applies only to the 2014 and later model years. The manufacturer should notify EPA in their pre-model year report of their intention to generate any credits under this section.
