
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Notice and opportunity for public comment.

(2)(i) The Administrator will publish a notice of availability in thenotifying the public of a manufacturer's proposed alternative off-cycle credit calculation methodology. The notice will include details regarding the proposed methodology but will not include any Confidential Business Information (see 40 CFR 1068.10 and 1068.11). The notice will include instructions on how to comment on the methodology. The Administrator will take public comments into consideration in the final determination and will notify the public of the final determination. Credits may not be accrued using an approved methodology until the first model year for which the Administrator has issued a final approval.

(ii) The Administrator may waive these notice and comment requirements for technologies for which EPA has previously approved a methodology for determining credits. To qualify for this waiver, the new application must be substantially identical in form, content, and methodology to the application for a previously approved methodology, and must include the following:

(A) A citation to the appropriate previously approved methodology, including the appropriateNotice and any subsequent EPA documentation of the Administrator's decision;

(B) All necessary manufacturer- and vehicle-specific test data, modeling, and credit calculations; and,

(C) Any other vehicle- or technology-specific details required pursuant to the previously approved methodology to assess and support an appropriate credit value.

(iii) A waiver of the notice and comment requirements does not imply a determination that a specific credit value for a given technology is appropriate, and nor does it imply a waiver from the requirements in paragraphs (d)(1) and (e) of this section.

(iv) The Administrator retains the option to require a notice and opportunity for public comment in cases where a new application deviates in significant respects from a previously approved methodology or raises novel substantive issues.

(3) With respect to fuel consumption improvement values applicable to the determination of average fuel economy under 600.510-12(c)(3) for the 2017 and later model years, EPA will consult with the U.S. Department of Transportation, National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, prior to making a decision on a manufacturer's application submitted under the requirements of this paragraph (d).
