
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Technology demonstration using alternative EPA-approved methodology.

(d)(1) This option may be used only with EPA approval, and the manufacturer must be able to justify to the Administrator why the 5-cycle option described in paragraph (c) of this section insufficiently characterizes the effectiveness of the off-cycle technology. In cases where the EPA 5-cycle methodology described in paragraph (c) of this section cannot adequately measure the emission reduction attributable to an off-cycle technology, the manufacturer may develop an alternative approach. Prior to a model year in which a manufacturer intends to seek these credits, the manufacturer must submit a detailed analytical plan to EPA. The manufacturer may seek EPA input on the proposed methodology prior to conducting testing or analytical work, and EPA will provide input on the manufacturer's analytical plan. The alternative demonstration program must be approved in advance by the Administrator and should:

(i) Use modeling, on-road testing, on-road data collection, or other approved analytical or engineering methods;

(ii) Be robust, verifiable, and capable of demonstrating the real-world emissions benefit with strong statistical significance;

(iii) Result in a demonstration of baseline and controlled emissions over a wide range of driving conditions and number of vehicles such that issues of data uncertainty are minimized;

(iv) Result in data on a model type basis unless the manufacturer demonstrates that another basis is appropriate and adequate.
