
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Technology demonstration using EPA 5-cycle methodology.

(c)To demonstrate an off-cycle technology and to determine a COcredit using the EPA 5-cycle methodology, the manufacturer shall determine the off-cycle city/highway combined carbon-related exhaust emissions benefit by using the EPA 5-cycle methodology described in 40 CFR Part 600. This method may not be used for technologies that include elements (e.g., driver-selectable systems) that require additional analyses, data collection, projections, or modeling, or other assessments to determine a national average benefit of the technology. Testing shall be performed on a representative vehicle, selected using good engineering judgment, for each model type for which the credit is being demonstrated. The emission benefit of a technology is determined by testing both with and without the off-cycle technology operating. If a specific technology is not expected to change emissions on one of the five test procedures, the manufacturer may submit an engineering analysis to the EPA that demonstrates that the technology has no effect. If EPA concurs with the analysis, then multiple tests are not required using that test procedure; instead, only one of that test procedure shall be required-either with or without the technology installed and operating-and that single value will be used for all of the 5-cycle weighting calculations. Multiple off-cycle technologies may be demonstrated on a test vehicle. The manufacturer shall conduct the following steps and submit all test data to the EPA.

(1) Testing without the off-cycle technology installed and/or operating.

(i) Determine carbon-related exhaust emissions over the FTP, the HFET, the US06, the SC03, and the cold temperature FTP test procedures according to the test procedure provisions specified in 40 CFR part 600 subpart B and using the calculation procedures specified in 40 CFR 600.113-12. Run each of these tests a minimum of three times without the off-cycle technology installed and operating and average the per phase (bag) results for each test procedure.

(ii) Calculate the FTP and HFET carbon-related exhaust emissions from the FTP and HFET averaged per phase results.

(iii) Calculate the combined city/highway carbon-related exhaust emission value from the FTP and HFET values determined in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section, where the FTP value is weighted 55% and the HFET value is weighted 45%. The resulting value is the 2-cycle unadjusted combined city/highway carbon-related exhaust emissions value for the vehicle without the off-cycle technology.

(iv) Calculate the 5-cycle weighted city/highway combined carbon-related exhaust emissions from the averaged per phase results, where the 5-cycle city value is weighted 55% and the 5-cycle highway value is weighted 45%. The resulting value is the 5-cycle adjusted combined city/highway carbon-related exhaust emission value for the vehicle without the off-cycle technology.

(2) Testing with the off-cycle technology installed and/or operating.

(i) Determine carbon-related exhaust emissions over the FTP, the HFET, the US06, the SC03, and the cold temperature FTP test procedures according to the test procedure provisions specified in 40 CFR part 600 subpart B and using the calculation procedures specified in 40 CFR 600.113-12. Run each of these tests a minimum of three times with the off-cycle technology installed and operating and average the per phase (bag) results for each test procedure.

(ii) Calculate the FTP and HFET carbon-related exhaust emissions from the FTP and HFET averaged per phase results.

(iii) Calculate the combined city/highway carbon-related exhaust emission value from the FTP and HFET values determined in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section, where the FTP value is weighted 55% and the HFET value is weighted 45%. The resulting value is the 2-cycle unadjusted combined city/highway carbon-related exhaust emissions value for the vehicle with the off-cycle technology.

(iv) Calculate the 5-cycle weighted city/highway combined carbon-related exhaust emissions from the averaged per phase results, where the 5-cycle city value is weighted 55% and the 5-cycle highway value is weighted 45%. The resulting value is the 5-cycle adjusted combined city/highway carbon-related exhaust emission value for the vehicle with the off-cycle technology.

(3) Calculate the off-cycle credit in grams per mile using the following formula, rounding the result to the nearest 0.1 grams/mile:

(4) Submit all test values to EPA, and include an engineering analysis describing the technology and how it provides off-cycle emission benefits. EPA may request additional testing if we determine that additional testing would be likely to provide significantly greater confidence in the estimates of off-cycle technology benefits.
