
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Credits for implementation of hybrid electric technology.

(a)Full size pickup trucks that implement hybrid electric technologies may be eligible for an additional credit under this paragraph (a). Pickup trucks earning the credits under this paragraph (a) may not earn the credits described in paragraph (b) of this section. To claim this credit, the manufacturer must measure the recovered energy over the Federal Test Procedure according to 40 CFR 600.116-12(d) to determine whether a vehicle is a mild or strong hybrid electric vehicle. To provide for EPA testing, the vehicle must be able to broadcast battery pack voltage via an on-board diagnostics parameter ID channel.

(1) Full size pickup trucks that are mild hybrid electric vehicles and that are produced in the 2017 through 2021 model years are eligible for a credit of 10 grams/mile. To receive this credit in a model year, the manufacturer must produce a quantity of mild hybrid electric full size pickup trucks such that the proportion of production of such vehicles, when compared to the manufacturer's total production of full size pickup trucks, is not less than the amount specified in the table below for that model year.

(2) Full-size pickup trucks that are strong hybrid electric vehicles and that are produced in 2017 through 2021 model years are eligible for a credit of 20 grams/mile. This same credit is available again for those vehicles produced in 2023 and 2024 model years. To receive this credit in a model year, the manufacturer must produce a quantity of strong hybrid electric full-size pickup trucks such that the proportion of production of such vehicles, when compared to the manufacturer's total production of full-size pickup trucks, is not less than 10 percent in that model year. Full-size pickup trucks earning credits under this paragraph (a)(2) may not earn credits based on the production multipliers described in ยง 86.1866-12(b).
