
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Early advanced technology vehicle incentive.

(c)Vehicles eligible for this incentive are electric vehicles, fuel cell vehicles, and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, as those terms are defined in ยง 86.1803-01. If a manufacturer chooses to not include electric vehicles, fuel cell vehicles, and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles in their fleet averages calculated under any of the early credit pathways described in paragraph (a) of this section, the manufacturer may generate early advanced technology vehicle credits pursuant to this paragraph (c).

(1) The manufacturer shall record the sales and carbon-related exhaust emission values of eligible vehicles by model type and model year for model years 2009 through 2011 and report these values to the Administrator under paragraph (e) of this section.

(2) Manufacturers may use the 2009 through 2011 eligible vehicles in their fleet average calculations starting with the 2012 model year, subject to a five-year carry-forward limitation.

(i) Eligible 2009 model year vehicles may be used in the calculation of a manufacturer's fleet average carbon-related exhaust emissions in the 2012 through 2014 model years.

(ii) Eligible 2010 model year vehicles may be used in the calculation of a manufacturer's fleet average carbon-related exhaust emissions in the 2012 through 2015 model years.

(iii) Eligible 2011 model year vehicles may be used in the calculation of a manufacturer's fleet average carbon-related exhaust emissions in the 2012 through 2016 model years.

(3)(i) To use the advanced technology vehicle incentive, the manufacturer will apply the 2009, 2010, and/or 2011 model type sales volumes and their model type emission levels to the manufacturer's fleet average calculation.

(ii) The early advanced technology vehicle incentive must be used to offset a deficit in one of the 2012 through 2016 model years, as appropriate under paragraph (c)(2) of this section.

(iii) The advanced technology vehicle sales and emission values may be included in a fleet average calculation for passenger automobiles or light trucks, but may not be used to generate credits in the model year in which they are included or in the averaging set in which they are used. Use of early advanced technology vehicle credits is limited to offsetting a deficit that would otherwise be generated without the use of those credits. Manufacturers shall report the use of such credits in their model year report for the model year in which the credits are used.

(4) Manufacturers may use zero grams/mile to represent the carbon-related exhaust emission values for the electric operation of 2009 through 2011 model year electric vehicles, fuel cell vehicles, and plug-in hybrid electric vehicles subject to the limitations in ยง 86.1866. The 2009 through 2011 model year vehicles using zero grams per mile shall count against the 200,000 or 300,000 caps on use of this credit value, whichever is applicable under ยง 86.1866.
