
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Pathway 3.

(3)Pathway 3 credits are those credits earned under Pathway 2 as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section in California and in the section 177 states determined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, combined with additional credits earned in the set of states that does not include California and the section 177 states determined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section and calculated according to this paragraph (a)(3).

(i) Manufacturers shall earn additional credits under Pathway 3 by calculating an average carbon-related exhaust emission value to the nearest one gram per mile for the classes of motor vehicles identified in this paragraph (a)(3). The results of such calculations will be reported to the Administrator for use in determining compliance with the applicable COearly credit threshold values.

(ii) An average carbon-related exhaust emission value calculation will be made for the passenger automobile averaging set. The term "passenger automobile" shall have the meaning given by the Department of Transportation at 49 CFR 523.4 for the specific model year for which the calculation is being made.

(iii) An average carbon-related exhaust emission value calculation will be made for the light truck averaging set. The term "light truck" shall have the meaning given by the Department of Transportation at 49 CFR 523.5 for the specific model year for which the calculation is being made.

(iv) Average carbon-related exhaust emission values shall be determined according to the provisions of § 600.510-12 of this chapter, except that:

(A) Vehicles sold in California and the section 177 states determined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section shall not be included.

(B) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for alcohol fueled model types shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor.

(C) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for natural gas fueled model types shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(iii)(B) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor.

(D) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for alcohol dual fueled model types shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(vi) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor and with F = 0.

(E) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for natural gas dual fueled model types shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(vii) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor and with F = 0.

(F) Electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid electric model type carbon-related exhaust emission values shall be included in the fleet average determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only to the extent that such vehicles are not being used to generate early advanced technology vehicle credits under paragraph (c) of this section.

(v) Pathway 3 fleet average COcredit threshold values.

(A) For 2009 and 2010 model year passenger automobiles, the fleet average COcredit threshold value is 323 grams/mile.

(B) For 2009 model year light trucks the fleet average COcredit threshold value is 381 grams/mile, or, if the manufacturer chose to optionally meet an alternative manufacturer-specific light truck fuel economy standard calculated under 49 CFR 533.5 for the 2009 model year, the gram per mile fleet average COcredit threshold shall be the COvalue determined by dividing 8887 by that alternative manufacturer-specific fuel economy standard and rounding to the nearest whole gram per mile.

(C) For 2010 model year light trucks the fleet average COcredit threshold value is 376 grams/mile, or, if the manufacturer chose to optionally meet an alternative manufacturer-specific light truck fuel economy standard calculated under 49 CFR 533.5 for the 2010 model year, the gram per mile fleet average COcredit threshold shall be the COvalue determined by dividing 8887 by that alternative manufacturer-specific fuel economy standard and rounding to the nearest whole gram per mile.

(D) For 2011 model year passenger automobiles the fleet average COcredit threshold value is the value determined by dividing 8887 by the manufacturer-specific passenger automobile fuel economy standard for the 2011 model year determined under 49 CFR 531.5 and rounding to the nearest whole gram per mile.

(E) For 2011 model year light trucks the fleet average COcredit threshold value is the value determined by dividing 8887 by the manufacturer-specific light truck fuel economy standard for the 2011 model year determined under 49 CFR 533.5 and rounding to the nearest whole gram per mile.

(vi) Credits are earned on the last day of the model year. Manufacturers must calculate, for a given model year, the number of credits or debits it has generated according to the following equation, rounded to the nearest megagram:

(vii) Deficits in any averaging set for any of the 2009-2011 model years must be offset using credits accumulated by any averaging set in any of the 2009-2011 model years before determining the number of credits that may be carried forward to the 2012. Deficit carry forward and credit banking provisions of § 86.1865-12 apply to early credits earned under this paragraph (a)(3), except that deficits may not be carried forward from any of the 2009-2011 model years into the 2012 model year, and credits earned in the 2009 model year may not be traded to other manufacturers.
