
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Pathway 1.

(1)To earn credits under this pathway, the manufacturer shall calculate an average carbon-related exhaust emission value to the nearest one gram per mile for the classes of motor vehicles identified in this paragraph (a)(1), and the results of such calculations will be reported to the Administrator for use in determining compliance with the applicable COearly credit threshold values.

(i) An average carbon-related exhaust emission value calculation will be made for the combined LDV/LDT1 averaging set, where the terms LDV and LDT1 are as defined in § 86.1803.

(ii) An average carbon-related exhaust emission value calculation will be made for the combined LDT2/HLDT/MDPV averaging set, where the terms LDT2, HLDT, and MDPV are as defined in § 86.1803.

(iii) Average carbon-related exhaust emission values shall be determined according to the provisions of § 600.510-12 of this chapter, except that:

(A) [Reserved]

(B) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for alcohol fueled model types shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(ii)(B) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor.

(C) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for natural gas fueled model types shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(iii)(B) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor.

(D) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for alcohol dual fueled model types shall be the value measured using gasoline or diesel fuel, as applicable, and shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(vi) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor and with F = 0. For the 2010 and 2011 model years only, if the California Air Resources Board has approved a manufacturer's request to use a non-zero value of F, the manufacturer may use such an approved value.

(E) The average carbon-related exhaust emissions for natural gas dual fueled model types shall be the value measured using gasoline or diesel fuel, as applicable, and shall be calculated according to the provisions of § 600.510-12(j)(2)(vii) of this chapter, without the use of the 0.15 multiplicative factor and with F = 0. For the 2010 and 2011 model years only, if the California Air Resources Board has approved a manufacturer's request to use a non-zero value of F, the manufacturer may use such an approved value.

(F) Carbon-related exhaust emission values for electric, fuel cell, and plug-in hybrid electric model types shall be included in the fleet average determined under paragraph (a)(1) of this section only to the extent that such vehicles are not being used to generate early advanced technology vehicle credits under paragraph (c) of this section.

(iv) Fleet average COcredit threshold values.

(v) Credits are earned on the last day of the model year. Manufacturers must calculate, for a given model year, the number of credits or debits it has generated according to the following equation, rounded to the nearest megagram:

(vi) Deficits generated against the applicable COcredit threshold values in paragraph (a)(1)(iv) of this section in any averaging set for any of the 2009-2011 model years must be offset using credits accumulated by any averaging set in any of the 2009-2011 model years before determining the number of credits that may be carried forward to the 2012. Deficit carry forward and credit banking provisions of § 86.1865-12 apply to early credits earned under this paragraph (a)(1), except that deficits may not be carried forward from any of the 2009-2011 model years into the 2012 model year, and credits earned in the 2009 model year may not be traded to other manufacturers.
