
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Early air conditioning leakage and efficiency credits.

(b)(1) Manufacturers may optionally generate air conditioning refrigerant leakage credits according to the provisions of ยง 86.1867 and/or air conditioning efficiency credits according to the provisions of ยง 86.1868 in model years 2009 through 2011. Credits must be tracked by model type and model year.

(2) Manufacturers must be participating in one of the early fleet average credit pathways described in paragraphs (a)(1), (2), or (3) of this section in order to generate early air conditioning credits for vehicles sold in California and the section 177 states as determined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. Manufacturers that select Pathway 4 as described in paragraph (a)(4) of this section may not generate early air conditioning credits for vehicles sold in California and the section 177 states as determined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section. Manufacturers not participating in one of the early fleet average credit pathways described in this section may generate early air conditioning credits only for vehicles sold in states other than in California and the section 177 states as determined in paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.
