
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Calculation of total full size pickup truck credits.
############# ยง 86.1871-12 Optional early COcredit programs.

Manufacturers may optionally generate COcredits in the 2009 through 2011 model years for use in the 2012 and later model years subject to EPA approval and to the provisions of this section. The provisions of ยง 86.1819-14(k)(1) and (2) apply instead of the provisions of this section for non-MDPV heavy-duty vehicles. Manufacturers may generate early fleet average credits, air conditioning leakage credits, air conditioning efficiency credits, early advanced technology credits, and early off-cycle technology credits. Manufacturers generating any credits under this section must submit an early credits report to the Administrator as required in this section. The terms "sales" and "sold" as used in this section shall mean vehicles produced for U.S. sale, where "U.S." means the states and territories of the United States. The expiration date of unused COcredits is based on the model year in which the credits are earned, as described in ยง 86.1865-12(k)(6).
