
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### § 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Credits for emission reduction performance.

(b)Full size pickup trucks that achieve carbon-related exhaust emission values below the applicable target value determined in § 86.1818-12(c)(3) may be eligible for an additional credit. For the purposes of this paragraph (b), carbon-related exhaust emission values may include any applicable air conditioning leakage and/or efficiency credits as determined in § 86.1867 and § 86.1868. Pickup trucks earning the credits under this paragraph (b) may not earn credits described in paragraph (a) of this section and may not earn credits based on the production multipliers described in § 86.1866-12(b).

(1) Full size pickup trucks that are produced in the 2017 through 2021 model years and that achieve carbon-related exhaust emissions less than or equal to the applicable target value determined in § 86.1818-12(c)(3) multiplied by 0.85 (rounded to the nearest gram/mile) and greater than the applicable target value determined in § 86.1818-12(c)(3) multiplied by 0.80 (rounded to the nearest gram/mile) in a model year are eligible for a credit of 10 grams/mile. A pickup truck that qualifies for this credit in a model year may claim this credit for subsequent model years through the 2021 model year if the carbon-related exhaust emissions of that pickup truck do not increase relative to the emissions in the model year in which the pickup truck qualified for the credit. To qualify for this credit in a model year, the manufacturer must produce a quantity of full size pickup trucks that meet the initial emission eligibility requirements of this paragraph (b)(1) such that the proportion of production of such vehicles, when compared to the manufacturer's total production of full size pickup trucks, is not less than the amount specified in the table below for that model year.

(2) Full-size pickup trucks that are produced in 2017 through 2021 model years and that achieve carbon-related exhaust emissions less than or equal to the applicable target value determined in § 86.1818-12(c)(3) multiplied by 0.80 (rounded to the nearest gram/mile) in a model year are eligible for a credit of 20 grams/mile. This same credit is available again for qualifying vehicles produced in 2023 and 2024 model years. A pickup truck that qualifies for this credit in a model year may claim this credit for a maximum of four subsequent model years (a total of five consecutive model years) if the carbon-related exhaust emissions of that pickup truck do not increase relative to the emissions in the model year in which the pickup truck first qualified for the credit. This credit may not be claimed in model year 2022 or in any model year after 2024. To qualify for this credit in a model year, the manufacturer must produce a quantity of full-size pickup trucks that meet the emission requirements of this paragraph (b)(2) such that the proportion of production of such vehicles, when compared to the manufacturer's total production of full-size pickup trucks, is not less than 10 percent in that model year. A pickup truck that qualifies for this credit in a model year and is subject to a major redesign in a subsequent model year such that it qualifies for the credit in the model year of the redesign may be allowed to qualify for an additional five years with EPA approval (not to go beyond the 2024 model year). Use good engineering judgment to determine whether a pickup truck has been subject to a major redesign.
