
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### ยง 86.1864-10 How to comply with the fleet average cold temperature NMHC standards.
####### Reporting and recordkeeping.
######## Early credit reporting requirements.

(e)Each manufacturer shall submit a report to the Administrator, known as the early credits report, that reports the credits earned in the 2009 through 2011 model years under this section.

(1) The report shall contain all information necessary for the calculation of the manufacturer's early credits in each of the 2009 through 2011 model years.

(2) The early credits report shall be in writing, signed by the authorized representative of the manufacturer and shall be submitted no later than 90 days after the end of the 2011 model year.

(3) Manufacturers using one of the optional early fleet average COreduction credit pathways described in paragraph (a) of this section shall report the following information separately for the appropriate averaging sets (e.g. LDV/LDT1 and LDT2/HLDT/MDPV averaging sets for pathways 1 and 2; LDV, LDT/2011 MDPV, LDV/LDT1 and LDT2/HLDT/MDPV averaging sets for Pathway 3; LDV and LDT/2011 MDPV averaging sets for Pathway 4):

(i) The pathway that they have selected (1, 2, 3, or 4).

(ii) A carbon-related exhaust emission value for each model type of the manufacturer's product line calculated according to paragraph (a) of this section.

(iii) The manufacturer's average carbon-related exhaust emission value calculated according to paragraph (a) of this section for the applicable averaging set and region and all data required to complete this calculation.

(iv) The credits earned for each averaging set, model year, and region, as applicable.

(4) Manufacturers calculating early air conditioning leakage and/or efficiency credits under paragraph (b) of this section shall report the following information for each model year separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks and for each air conditioning system used to generate credits:

(i) A description of the air conditioning system.

(ii) The leakage and efficiency credit values and all the information required to determine these values.

(iii) The total credits earned for each averaging set, model year, and region, as applicable.

(5) Manufacturers calculating early advanced technology vehicle credits under paragraph (c) of this section shall report, for each model year and separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, the following information:

(i) The number of each model type of eligible vehicle produced.

(ii) The carbon-related exhaust emission value by model type and model year.

(6) Manufacturers calculating early off-cycle technology credits under paragraph (d) of this section shall report, for each model year and separately for passenger automobiles and light trucks, all test results and data required for calculating such credits.
