
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### Appendix II to Subpart S of Part 86 - As-Received Testing Vehicle Rejection Criteria

1. The odometer is inoperative, has been replaced, or the indicated mileage is outside the target range.

2. The emission system of the vehicle has been obviously tampered or the vehicle has been operated on leaded fuel. A manufacturer may request a vehicle be rejected because of the addition of an aftermarket security system if the manufacturer establishes that the installation would make that vehicle's emissions unrepresentative.

3. The vehicle has been used for severe duty (trailer towing for passenger cars, snow plowing, racing)

4. The vehicle has a history of extensive collision damage or major engine repair (piston, crank, cylinder head, engine block).

5. The vehicle exhibits ominous noises or serious fluid leaks from the engine or transmission, a modified exhaust system, (headers, side pipes, aftermarket catalysts, etc) or an exhaust system with an audible leak.

6. Testing the vehicle could endanger the safety of the vehicle, test facility, or individuals conducting the testing.

7. The MIL light is flashing (severe misfire indication).

8. Other items with prior agency approval.
