
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart S - General Compliance Provisions for Control of Air Pollution From New and In-Use Light-Duty Vehicles, Light-Duty Trucks, and Heavy-Duty Vehicles
###### Appendix I to Subpart S of Part 86 - Vehicle Procurement Methodology
####### Selection Guidelines:

II.The manufacturer or their representative shall make a reasonable effort to contact potential participants. Solicitation letters will be sent to potential participants in the order of their appearance on a randomized master owner list. The manufacturer or their representative shall perform the following steps:

(a) The manufacturer or their representative shall mail solicitation letters in batches. The size of each batch is at least five times the required number of vehicles to be tested for the group that year. First class mail shall be used.

(b) If the response rate is less than 20% after two to four weeks, the manufacturer or their representative shall make one more attempt and send a new solicitation package to the potential participants who have not yet responded.

(c) A telephone questionnaire will be conducted on a random selection of returned, positive-response postcards.

(d) If the required number of vehicles is not obtained, additional solicitation letters shall be sent to the next batch of potential participants in the order of their appearance on a randomized master owner list until the required number of vehicles are procured.

(e) Alternative selection methods may be used with advanced approval from the Administrator.
