
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart T - Manufacturer-Run In-Use Testing Program for Heavy-Duty Diesel Engines
###### § 86.1915 What are the requirements for Phase 1 and Phase 2 testing?

For all selected engine families, you must do the following:

(a) To determine the number of engines you must test from each selected engine family under Phase 1 testing, use the following criteria:

(1) Start by measuring emissions from five engines using the procedures described in § 86.1375. If all five engines comply fully with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for all pollutants, you may stop testing. This completes your testing requirements under this subpart for the applicable calendar year for that engine family.

(2) If one of the engines tested under paragraph (a)(1) of this section fails to comply fully with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for one or more pollutants, test one more engine. If this additional engine complies fully with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for all pollutants, you may stop testing. This completes your testing requirements under this subpart for the applicable calendar year for that engine family.

(3) If your testing results under paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section do not satisfy the criteria for completing your testing requirements under those paragraphs for all pollutants, test four additional engines so you have tested a total of ten engines.

(4) An engine that fails to fully comply with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for any pollutant does not comply with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for the purposes of determining the number of engines to test from each selected engine family under this paragraph.

(b) For situations where a total of ten engines must be tested under paragraph (a)(3) of this section, the results of Phase 1 testing lead to the following outcomes:

(1) If at least eight of the ten engines comply fully with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for all pollutants, you may stop testing. This completes your testing requirements under this subpart for the applicable calendar year for that engine family.

(2) If six or seven vehicles from the Phase 1 sample of test vehicles comply fully with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for all pollutants, then you must engage in follow-up discussions with us to determine whether any further testing (including Phase 2 testing), data submissions, or other actions may be warranted.

(3) If fewer than six of the ten engines tested under paragraph (a) of this section comply fully with the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912 for all pollutants, we may require you to initiate Phase 2 testing, as described in paragraph (c) of this section.

(4) You may under any circumstances elect to conduct Phase 2 testing following the completion of Phase 1 testing. All the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section apply to this Phase 2 testing.

(c) If you perform Phase 2 testing for any reason, test your engines as follows:

(1) You must test ten additional engines using the test procedures described in § 86.1375, unless we require you to test fewer vehicles.

(2) We may give you any of the following additional directions in selecting and testing engines:

(i) We may require you to select a certain subset of your engine family. This may include, for example, engines within a specific power range, engines used in particular applications, or engines installed in vehicles from a particular manufacturer.

(ii) We may direct you to test engines in a way that simulates the type of driving and ambient conditions associated with high emissions experienced during Phase 1 testing.

(iii) We may direct you to test engines in a specific state or any number of contiguous states.

(iv) We may direct you to select engines from the same sources used for previous testing, or from different sources.

(v) We may require that you complete your testing and reporting under Phase 2 within a certain period. This period may not be shorter than three months and must allow a reasonable amount of time to identify and test enough vehicles. We would generally expect this testing to be completed within the overall time period specified in § 86.1905(d).
