
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart T - Manufacturer-Run In-Use Testing Program for Heavy-Duty Diesel Engines
###### ยง 86.1920 What in-use testing information must I report to EPA?
####### inuse@epa.gov

(a) Send us electronic reports atusing an approved information format. If you want to use a different format, send us a written request with justification.

(b) Within 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, send us reports containing the test data from each engine for which testing was completed during the calendar quarter. Alternatively, you may separately send us the test data within 30 days after you complete testing for an engine. If you request it, we may allow additional time to send us this information. Once you send us information under this section, you need not send that information again in later reports. Prepare your test reports as follows:

(1) For each engine family, describe how you recruited vehicles. Describe how you used any criteria or thresholds to narrow your search or to screen individual vehicles.

(2) Include a summary of the candidate vehicles you have rejected and the reasons you rejected them, whether you base the rejection on the criteria in ยง 86.1908(a) or anything else. If you rejected a candidate vehicle due to misfueling, included the results of any fuel sample tests.

(3) For the test vehicle, include the following background information:

(i) The EPA engine-family designation, and the engine's model number, total displacement, and power rating.

(ii) The applicable test phase (Phase 1 or Phase 2).

(iii) The date EPA selected the engine family for testing.

(iv) The vehicle's make and model and the year it was built.

(v) The vehicle identification number and engine serial number.

(vi) The vehicle's type or application (such as delivery, line haul, or dump truck). Also, identify the type of trailer, if applicable.

(vii) The vehicle's maintenance and use history.

(viii) The known status history of the vehicle's OBD system and any actions the owner or operator took to address OBD trouble codes or MIL illumination over the vehicle's lifetime.

(ix) Any OBD codes or MIL illumination that occur after you accept the vehicle for in-use testing under this subpart.

(x) Any steps you take to maintain, adjust, modify, or repair the vehicle or its engine to prepare for or continue testing, including actions to address OBD trouble codes or MIL illumination. Include any steps you took to drain and refill the vehicle's fuel tank(s) to correct misfueling, and the results of any fuel test conducted to identify misfueling.

(4) For each test, include the following data and measurements:

(i) The date and time of testing, and the test number.
