
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart T - Manufacturer-Run In-Use Testing Program for Heavy-Duty Diesel Engines
###### § 86.1920 What in-use testing information must I report to EPA?
####### see

(xi) Vehicle-pass ratios (§ 86.1912(d)).

(xii) Recorded one-hertz test data, including, but not limited to, the following parameters:

(A) Ambient temperature.

(B) Ambient pressure.

(C) Ambient humidity.

(D) Altitude.

(E) Emissions of THC, NMHC, CO, COor O, and NO(as appropriate). Report results for PM if it was measured in a manner that provides one-hertz test data. Report results for CHif it was measured and used to determine NMHC.

(F) Differential back-pressure of any PEMS attachments to vehicle exhaust.

(G) Exhaust flow.

(H) Exhaust aftertreatment temperatures, if the engine meets the specifications of § 86.1370-2007(g).

(I) Engine speed.

(J) Engine brake torque.

(K) Engine coolant temperature.

(L) Intake manifold temperature.

(M) Intake manifold pressure.

(N) Throttle position.

(O) Any parameter sensed or controlled in order to modulate the emission-control system or fuel-injection timing.

(5) For each engine family, identify the applicable requirements, as follows:

(i) The applicable NTE thresholds.

(ii) Vehicle and engine information needed to identify the limited testing regions under § 86.1370-2007(b)(6) and (7).

(iii) Vehicle and engine information needed to identify any approved NTE deficiencies under § 86.007-11(a)(4)(iv).

(6) Include the following summary information after you complete testing with the engine:

(i) State whether the engine meets the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912(f).

(ii) Identify how many engines you have tested from the applicable engine family and how many engines still need to be tested.

(iii) Identify how many engines from an engine family have passed the vehicle-pass criteria and the number that have failed the vehicle-pass criteria (see § 86.1912(f)).

(iv) If possible, state the outcome of Phase 1 testing for the engine family based on the criteria in § 86.1915(b).

(c) In your reports under this section, you must do all the following:

(1) Include results from all emission testing required under this subpart.

(2) Describe if any testing or evaluations were conducted to determine why a vehicle failed the vehicle-pass criteria in § 86.1912.

(3) Describe the purpose of any diagnostic procedures you conduct.

(4) Describe any instances in which the OBD system illuminated the MIL or set trouble codes. Also describe any approved actions taken to address the trouble codes or MIL.

(5) Describe any instances of misfueling, the approved actions taken to address the problem, and the results of any associated fuel sample testing.

(6) Describe any incomplete or invalid tests that were conducted under this subpart.
