
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Subpart T - Manufacturer-Run In-Use Testing Program for Heavy-Duty Diesel Engines
###### § 86.1930 What special provisions apply from 2005 through 2010?

(a) We may direct you to test engines under this subpart for emissions other than PM in 2005 and 2006, and for PM emissions in 2007 through 2010. In those interim periods, all the provisions of this subpart apply, except as specified in this paragraph (a). You may apply the exceptions identified in this section for both years of the applicable years for emissions other than PM. You may omit testing and reporting in two of the four applicable years for PM emissions.

(1) We will select engine families for testing of emissions other than PM only when the manufacturer's Statement of Compliance specifically describes the family as being designed to comply with NTE requirements.

(2) We will not direct you to do the Phase 2 testing in § 86.1915(c), regardless of measured emission levels.

(3) For purposes of calculating the NTE thresholds under § 86.1912(a) for any 2006 and earlier model year engine that is not subject to the emission standards in § 86.007-11, determine the applicable NTE standards as follows:

(i) If any numerical NTE requirements specified in the terms of any consent decree apply to the engine family, use those values as the NTE standards for testing under this subpart.

(ii) If a numerical NTE requirement is not specified in a consent decree for the engine family, the NTE standards are 1.25 times the applicable FELs or the applicable emission standards specified in § 86.004-11(a)(1) or § 86.098-11(a)(1).

(4) In the report required in § 86.1920(b), you must submit the deficiencies and limited testing region reports (see §§ 86.007-11(a)(4)(iv) and 86.1370-2007(b)(6) and (7)) for 2006 and earlier model year engines tested under this section.

(5) You must notify the Designated Compliance Officer by September 30, 2010 whether or not you will submit test reports for PM emissions for each of the four years from 2007 through 2010. See 40 CFR 1068.30 for the contact information for the Designated Compliance Officer.

(6) You must submit reports by the deadlines specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) The following deadlines apply for reporting test results under this subpart:

(1) You must complete all the required testing and reporting under this subpart related to emissions other than PM by the following dates:

(i) November 30, 2007 for engine families that we designate for testing in 2005.

(ii) November 30, 2008 for engine families that we designate for testing in 2006.

(iii) November 30, 2009 for engine families that we designate for testing in 2007.

(iv) March 31, 2010 for engine families we designate for testing in 2008.

(v) April 30, 2011 for engine families we designate for testing in 2009.

(2) You must complete all the required testing and reporting under this subpart related to PM emissions by the following dates:

(i) May 31, 2010 for engine families that we designate for testing in 2007.

(ii) September 30, 2010 for engine families we designate for testing in 2008.

(iii) April 30, 2011 for engine families we designate for testing in 2009.

(iv) November 30, 2011 for engine families we designate for testing in 2009.

(c) For 2007 through 2009 all the provisions of this subpart and paragraph (a) of this section apply, with the following additional exceptions:

(1) You must complete all the required testing and reporting under this subpart by the following dates:

(i) November 30, 2009 for engine families that we designate for non-PM testing in 2007.

(ii) March 31, 2010 for engine families that we designate for non-PM testing in 2008.

(iii) April 30, 2011 for engine families that we designate for non-PM testing in 2009.

(2) You may conduct non-PM and PM testing on different vehicles for engine families that we designate in 2007 and 2008.

(3) You may conduct PM testing as follows for 2007:

(i) Test vehicles may be selected from a vehicle fleet that you own or otherwise directly control.

(ii) Test vehicles may be operated by a driver that you employ.

(iii) Each test vehicle must be operated on a route and under operating conditions that reasonably replicate the use of the selected vehicle type when operated in typical revenue service, unless otherwise approved by us.
