
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 86 - CONTROL OF EMISSIONS FROM NEW AND IN-USE HIGHWAY VEHICLES AND ENGINES
##### Appendix IV to Part 86 - Durability Driving Schedules

(a) Durability Driving Schedule for Light-Duty Vehicles and Light-Duty Trucks.

The schedule consists basically of 11 laps of a 3.7 mile course. The basic vehicle speed for each lap is listed below:

During each of the first nine laps there are 4 stops with 15 second idle. Normal accelerations and decelerations are used. In addition, there are 5 light decelerations each lap from the base speed to 20 m.p.h. followed by light accelerations to the base speed.

The 10th lap is run at a constant speed of 55 m.p.h.

The 11th lap is begun with a wide open throttle acceleration from stop to 70 m.p.h. A normal deceleration to idle followed by a second wide open throttle acceleration occurs at the midpoint of the lap.

(b) Durability Driving Schedule for Motorcycles. The Durability Driving Schedule for Class III Motorcycles may be used for Light-Duty Vehicles and Light-Duty Trucks.

The schedule consists basically of 11 laps of a 6.0 km (3.7 mi) course. The basic vehicle speed for each lap is listed below:

During each of the first nine laps there are 4 stops with 15 second idle. Normal accelerations and decelerations are used. In addition, there are 5 light declerations each lap from the base speed to 30 km/h followed by light accelerations to the base speed.

The 10th lap is run at a constant speed.

The 11th lap is begun with a wide open throttle acceleration from stop. A normal deceleration to idle followed by a second wide open throttle acceleration occurs at the midpoint of the lap.

This schedule may be modified with the advance approval of the Administrator if it results in unsafe operation of the vehicle.
