
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 93 - DETERMINING CONFORMITY OF FEDERAL ACTIONS TO STATE OR FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart A - Conformity to State or Federal Implementation Plans of Transportation Plans, Programs, and Projects Developed, Funded or Approved Under Title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Laws
###### ยง 93.119 Criteria and procedures: Interim emissions in areas without motor vehicle emissions budgets.
####### Analysis years.

(g)(1) The regional emissions analysis must be performed for analysis years that are no more than ten years apart. The first analysis year must be no more than five years beyond the year in which the conformity determination is being made. The last year of the timeframe of the conformity determination (as described under ยง 93.106(d)) must also be an analysis year.

(2) For areas using paragraphs (b)(2)(i), (c)(2)(i), and (d)(1) of this section, a regional emissions analysis that satisfies the requirements of ยง 93.122 and paragraphs (g) through (j) of this section would not be required for analysis years in which the transportation projects and planning assumptions in the "Action" and "Baseline" scenarios are exactly the same. In such a case, paragraph (a) of this section can be satisfied by documenting that the transportation projects and planning assumptions in both scenarios are exactly the same, and consequently, the emissions predicted in the "Action" scenario are not greater than the emissions predicted in the "Baseline" scenario for such analysis years.

(3) When the timeframe of the conformity determination is shortened under ยง 93.106(d)(2), the conformity determination must be accompanied by a regional emissions analysis (for informational purposes only) for the last year of the transportation plan.
