
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 93 - DETERMINING CONFORMITY OF FEDERAL ACTIONS TO STATE OR FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart B - Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans
###### ยง 93.153 Applicability.
####### et seq.

(a) Conformity determinations for Federal actions related to transportation plans, programs, and projects developed, funded, or approved under title 23 U.S.C. or the Federal Transit Act (49 U.S.C. 1601) must meet the procedures and criteria of 40 CFR part 51, subpart T, in lieu of the procedures set forth in this subpart.

(b) For Federal actions not covered by paragraph (a) of this section, a conformity determination is required for each criteria pollutant or precursor where the total of direct and indirect emissions of the criteria pollutant or precursor in a nonattainment or maintenance area caused by a Federal action would equal or exceed any of the rates in paragraphs (b)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section the following rates apply in nonattainment areas (NAA's):

(2) For purposes of paragraph (b) of this section the following rates apply in maintenance areas:

(c) The requirements of this subpart shall not apply to the following Federal actions:

(1) Actions where the total of direct and indirect emissions are below the emissions levels specified in paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) Actions which would result in no emissions increase or an increase in emissions that is clearly de minimis:

(i) Judicial and legislative proceedings.

(ii) Continuing and recurring activities such as permit renewals where activities conducted will be similar in scope and operation to activities currently being conducted.

(iii) Rulemaking and policy development and issuance.

(iv) Routine maintenance and repair activities, including repair and maintenance of administrative sites, roads, trails, and facilities.

(v) Civil and criminal enforcement activities, such as investigations, audits, inspections, examinations, prosecutions, and the training of law enforcement personnel.

(vi) Administrative actions such as personnel actions, organizational changes, debt management or collection, cash management, internal agency audits, program budget proposals, and matters relating to the administration and collection of taxes, duties and fees.

(vii) The routine, recurring transportation of materiel and personnel.

(viii) Routine movement of mobile assets, such as ships and aircraft, in home port reassignments and stations (when no new support facilities or personnel are required) to perform as operational groups and/or for repair or overhaul.

(ix) Maintenance dredging and debris disposal where no new depths are required, applicable permits are secured, and disposal will be at an approved disposal site.

(x) Actions, such as the following, with respect to existing structures, properties, facilities and lands where future activities conducted will be similar in scope and operation to activities currently being conducted at the existing structures, properties, facilities, and lands; for example, relocation of personnel, disposition of federally-owned existing structures, properties, facilities, and lands, rent subsidies, operation and maintenance cost subsidies, the exercise of receivership or conservatorship authority, assistance in purchasing structures, and the production of coins and currency.

(xi) The granting of leases, licenses such as for exports and trade, permits, and easements where activities conducted will be similar in scope and operation to activities currently being conducted.

(xii) Planning, studies, and provision of technical assistance.

(xiii) Routine operation of facilities, mobile assets and equipment.

(xiv) Transfers of ownership, interests, and titles in land, facilities, and real and personal properties, regardless of the form or method of the transfer.

(xv) The designation of empowerment zones, enterprise communities, or viticultural areas.

(xvi) Actions by any of the Federal banking agencies or the Federal Reserve Banks, including actions regarding charters, applications, notices, licenses, the supervision or examination of depository institutions or depository institution holding companies, access to the discount window, or the provision of financial services to banking organizations or to any department, agency or instrumentality of the United States.

(xvii) Actions by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or any Federal Reserve Bank necessary to effect monetary or exchange rate policy.

(xviii) Actions that implement a foreign affairs function of the United States.

(xix) Actions (or portions thereof) associated with transfers of land, facilities, title, and real properties through an enforceable contract or lease agreement where the delivery of the deed is required to occur promptly after a specific, reasonable condition is met, such as promptly after the land is certified as meeting the requirements of CERCLA, and where the Federal agency does not retain continuing authority to control emissions associated with the lands, facilities, title, or real properties.

(xx) Transfers of real property, including land, facilities, and related personal property from a Federal entity to another Federal entity and assignments of real property, including land, facilities, and related personal property from a Federal entity to another Federal entity for subsequent deeding to eligible applicants.

(xxi) Actions by the Department of the Treasury to effect fiscal policy and to exercise the borrowing authority of the United States.
