
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 93 - DETERMINING CONFORMITY OF FEDERAL ACTIONS TO STATE OR FEDERAL IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart B - Determining Conformity of General Federal Actions to State or Federal Implementation Plans
###### ยง 93.160 Mitigation of air quality impacts.

(a) Any measures that are intended to mitigate air quality impacts must be identified and the process for implementation and enforcement of such measures must be described, including an implementation schedule containing explicit timelines for implementation.

(b) Prior to determining that a Federal action is in conformity, the Federal agency making the conformity determination must obtain written commitments from the appropriate persons or agencies to implement any mitigation measures which are identified as conditions for making conformity determinations.

(c) Persons or agencies voluntarily committing to mitigation measures to facilitate positive conformity determinations must comply with the obligations of such commitments.

(d) In instances where the Federal agency is licensing, permitting or otherwise approving the action of another governmental or private entity, approval by the Federal agency must be conditioned on the other entity meeting the mitigation measures set forth in the conformity determination.

(e) When necessary because of changed circumstances, mitigation measures may be modified so long as the new mitigation measures continue to support the conformity determination. Any proposed change in the mitigation measures is subject to the reporting requirements of ยง 93.156 and the public participation requirements of ยง 93.157.

(f) Written commitments to mitigation measures must be obtained prior to a positive conformity determination and such commitments must be fulfilled.

(g) After a State or Tribe revises its SIP or TIP and EPA approves that SIP revision, any agreements, including mitigation measures, necessary for a conformity determination will be both State or tribal and federally enforceable. Enforceability through the applicable SIP or TIP will apply to all persons who agree to mitigate direct and indirect emissions associated with a Federal action for a conformity determination.
