
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
####### ยง 96.5 Retired unit exemption.
######## Special provisions.

(c)(1) A unit exempt under this section shall not emit any nitrogen oxides, starting on the date that the exemption takes effect. The owners and operators of the unit will be allocated allowances in accordance with subpart E of this part.

(2)(i) A unit exempt under this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a title V operating permit shall not resume operation unless the NOauthorized account representative of the source submits a complete NOBudget permit application under ยง 96.22 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided under the permitting authority's title V operating permits regulations for final action on a permit application) prior to the later of May 1, 2003 or the date on which the unit is to first resume operation.

(ii) A unit exempt under this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a non-title V permit shall not resume operation unless the NOauthorized account representative of the source submits a complete NOBudget permit application under ยง 96.22 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided under the permitting authority's non-title V permits regulations for final action on a permit application) prior to the later of May 1, 2003 or the date on which the unit is to first resume operation.

(3) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the NOauthorized account representative of a unit exempt under this section shall comply with the requirements of the NOBudget Trading Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.

(4) A unit that is exempt under this section is not eligible to be a NOBudget opt-in source under subpart I of this part.

(5) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under this section shall retain at the source that includes the unit, records demonstrating that the unit is permanently retired. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of the period, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit is permanently retired.
