
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
####### § 96.7 Computation of time.
########### Subpart B - NOAuthorized Account Representative for NOBudget Sources
############### § 96.10 Authorization and responsibilities of the NOauthorized account representative.

(a) Except as provided under § 96.11, each NOBudget source, including all NOBudget units at the source, shall have one and only one NOauthorized account representative, with regard to all matters under the NOBudget Trading Program concerning the source or any NOBudget unit at the source.

(b) The NOauthorized account representative of the NOBudget source shall be selected by an agreement binding on the owners and operators of the source and all NOBudget units at the source.

(c) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete account certificate of representation under § 96.13, the NOauthorized account representative of the source shall represent and, by his or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind each owner and operator of the NOBudget source represented and each NOBudget unit at the source in all matters pertaining to the NOBudget Trading Program, not withstanding any agreement between the NOauthorized account representative and such owners and operators. The owners and operators shall be bound by any decision or order issued to the NOauthorized account representative by the permitting authority, the Administrator, or a court regarding the source or unit.

(d) No NOBudget permit shall be issued, and no NOAllowance Tracking System account shall be established for a NOBudget unit at a source, until the Administrator has received a complete account certificate of representation under § 96.13 for a NOauthorized account representative of the source and the NOBudget units at the source.

(e)(1) Each submission under the NOBudget Trading Program shall be submitted, signed, and certified by the NOauthorized account representative for each NOBudget source on behalf of which the submission is made. Each such submission shall include the following certification statement by the NOauthorized account representative: "I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the owners and operators of the NOBudget sources or NOBudget units for which the submission is made. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment."

(2) The permitting authority and the Administrator will accept or act on a submission made on behalf of owner or operators of a NOBudget source or a NOBudget unit only if the submission has been made, signed, and certified in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
