
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
####### ยง 96.13 Account certificate of representation.

(a) A complete account certificate of representation for a NOauthorized account representative or an alternate NOauthorized account representative shall include the following elements in a format prescribed by the Administrator:

(1) Identification of the NOBudget source and each NOBudget unit at the source for which the account certificate of representation is submitted.

(2) The name, address, e-mail address (if any), telephone number, and facsimile transmission number (if any) of the NOauthorized account representative and any alternate NOauthorized account representative.

(3) A list of the owners and operators of the NOBudget source and of each NOBudget unit at the source.

(4) The following certification statement by the NOauthorized account representative and any alternate NOauthorized account representative: "I certify that I was selected as the NOauthorized account representative or alternate NOauthorized account representative, as applicable, by an agreement binding on the owners and operators of the NOBudget source and each NOBudget unit at the source. I certify that I have all the necessary authority to carry out my duties and responsibilities under the NOBudget Trading Program on behalf of the owners and operators of the NOBudget source and of each NOBudget unit at the source and that each such owner and operator shall be fully bound by my representations, actions, inactions, or submissions and by any decision or order issued to me by the permitting authority, the Administrator, or a court regarding the source or unit."

(5) The signature of the NOauthorized account representative and any alternate NOauthorized account representative and the dates signed.

(b) Unless otherwise required by the permitting authority or the Administrator, documents of agreement referred to in the account certificate of representation shall not be submitted to the permitting authority or the Administrator. Neither the permitting authority nor the Administrator shall be under any obligation to review or evaluate the sufficiency of such documents, if submitted.
