
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart D - Compliance Certification
###### § 96.31 Permitting authority's and Administrator's action on compliance certifications.
####### § 96.51 Establishment of accounts.
######## Account identification.
######### Authorized account representative identification.
############### § 96.53 Recordation of NOallowance allocations.

(a) The Administrator will record the NOallowances for 2003 in the NOBudget units' compliance accounts and the allocation set-asides, as allocated under subpart E of this part. The Administrator will also record the NOallowances allocated under § 96.88(a)(1) for each NOBudget opt-in source in its compliance account.

(b) Each year, after the Administrator has made all deductions from a NOBudget unit's compliance account and the overdraft account pursuant to § 96.54, the Administrator will record NOallowances, as allocated to the unit under subpart E of this part or under § 96.88(a)(2), in the compliance account for the year after the last year for which allowances were previously allocated to the compliance account. Each year, the Administrator will also record NOallowances, as allocated under subpart E of this part, in the allocation set-aside for the year after the last year for which allowances were previously allocated to an allocation set-aside.
