
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart H - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 96.70 General requirements.
####### Compliance dates.

(b)The owner or operator must meet the requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section on or before the following dates and must record and report data on and after the following dates:

(1) NOBudget units for which the owner or operator intends to apply for early reduction credits under § 96.55(d) must comply with the requirements of this subpart by May 1, 2000.

(2) Except for NOBudget units under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, NOBudget units under § 96.4 that commence operation before January 1, 2002, must comply with the requirements of this subpart by May 1, 2002.

(3) NOBudget units under § 96.4 that commence operation on or after January 1, 2002 and that report on an annual basis under § 96.74(d) must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the later of the following dates:

(i) May 1, 2002; or

(ii) The earlier of:

(A) 180 days after the date on which the unit commences operation or, (B) For units under § 96.4(a)(1), 90 days after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation.

(4) NOBudget units under § 96.4 that commence operation on or after January 1, 2002 and that report on a control season basis under § 96.74(d) must comply with the requirements of this subpart by the later of the following dates:

(i) The earlier of:

(A) 180 days after the date on which the unit commences operation or,

(B) For units under § 96.4(a)(1), 90 days after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation.

(ii) However, if the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(4)(i) section does not occur during a control period, May 1; immediately following the date determined in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.

(5) For a NOBudget unit with a new stack or flue for which construction is completed after the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section or subpart I of this part:

(i) 90 days after the date on which emissions first exit to the atmosphere through the new stack or flue;

(ii) However, if the unit reports on a control season basis under § 96.74(d) and the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section does not occur during the control period, May 1 immediately following the applicable deadline in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section.

(6) For a unit for which an application for a NOBudget opt in permit is submitted and not denied or withdrawn, the compliance dates specified under subpart I of this part.
