
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Individual Unit Opt-ins
###### ยง 96.84 Opt-in process.
####### Effective date.
######## Conditions for withdrawal.

(b)Before a NOBudget opt-in source covered by a request under paragraph (a) of this section may withdraw from the NOBudget Trading Program and the NOBudget opt-in permit may be terminated under paragraph (e) of this section, the following conditions must be met:

(1) For the control period immediately before the withdrawal is to be effective, the NOauthorized account representative must submit or must have submitted to the permitting authority an annual compliance certification report in accordance with ยง 96.30.

(2) If the NOBudget opt-in source has excess emissions for the control period immediately before the withdrawal is to be effective, the Administrator will deduct or has deducted from the NOBudget opt-in source's compliance account, or the overdraft account of the NOBudget source where the NOBudget opt-in source is located, the full amount required under ยง 96.54(d) for the control period.

(3) After the requirements for withdrawal under paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section are met, the Administrator will deduct from the NOBudget opt-in source's compliance account, or the overdraft account of the NOBudget source where the NOBudget opt-in source is located, NOallowances equal in number to and allocated for the same or a prior control period as any NOallowances allocated to that source under ยง 96.88 for any control period for which the withdrawal is to be effective. The Administrator will close the NOBudget opt-in source's compliance account and will establish, and transfer any remaining allowances to, a new general account for the owners and operators of the NOBudget opt-in source. The NOauthorized account representative for the NOBudget opt-in source shall become the NOauthorized account representative for the general account.

(c) A NOBudget opt-in source that withdraws from the NOBudget Trading Program shall comply with all requirements under the NOBudget Trading Program concerning all years for which such NOBudget opt-in source was a NOBudget opt-in source, even if such requirements arise or must be complied with after the withdrawal takes effect.
