
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Individual Unit Opt-ins
###### ยง 96.84 Opt-in process.
####### Interim review of monitoring plan.

(a)The permitting authority will determine, on an interim basis, the sufficiency of the monitoring plan accompanying the initial application for a NOBudget opt-in permit under ยง 96.83. A monitoring plan is sufficient, for purposes of interim review, if the plan appears to contain information demonstrating that the NOemissions rate and heat input of the unit are monitored and reported in accordance with subpart H of this part. A determination of sufficiency shall not be construed as acceptance or approval of the unit's monitoring plan.

(b) If the permitting authority determines that the unit's monitoring plan is sufficient under paragraph (a) of this section and after completion of monitoring system certification under subpart H of this part, the NOemissions rate and the heat input of the unit shall be monitored and reported in accordance with subpart H of this part for one full control period during which monitoring system availability is not less than 90 percent and during which the unit is in full compliance with any applicable State or Federal emissions or emissions-related requirements. Solely for purposes of applying the requirements in the prior sentence, the unit shall be treated as a "NOBudget unit" prior to issuance of a NOBudget opt-in permit covering the unit.

(c) Based on the information monitored and reported under paragraph (b) of this section, the unit's baseline heat rate shall be calculated as the unit's total heat input (in mmBtu) for the control period and the unit's baseline NOemissions rate shall be calculated as the unit's total NOemissions (in lb) for the control period divided by the unit's baseline heat rate.

(d) After calculating the baseline heat input and the baseline NOemissions rate for the unit under paragraph (c) of this section, the permitting authority will serve a draft NOBudget opt-in permit on the NOauthorized account representative of the unit.
