
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subparts K-Z [Reserved]
####### ยง 96.105 Retired unit exemption.
######## Special provisions.

(b)(1) A unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall not emit any nitrogen oxides, starting on the date that the exemption takes effect.

(2) The permitting authority will allocate CAIR NOallowances under subpart EE of this part to a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall retain, at the source that includes the unit, records demonstrating that the unit is permanently retired. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of the period, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit is permanently retired.

(4) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the CAIR designated representative of a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall comply with the requirements of the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.

(5) A unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a title V operating permit shall not resume operation unless the CAIR designated representative of the source submits a complete CAIR permit application under ยง 96.122 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of January 1, 2009 or the date on which the unit resumes operation.

(6) On the earlier of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraph (a) of this section shall lose its exemption:

(i) The date on which the CAIR designated representative submits a CAIR permit application for the unit under paragraph (b)(5) of this section;

(ii) The date on which the CAIR designated representative is required under paragraph (b)(5) of this section to submit a CAIR permit application for the unit; or

(iii) The date on which the unit resumes operation, if the CAIR designated representative is not required to submit a CAIR permit application for the unit.

(7) For the purpose of applying monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements under subpart HH of this part, a unit that loses its exemption under paragraph (a) of this section shall be treated as a unit that commences commercial operation on the first date on which the unit resumes operation.
