
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subparts K-Z [Reserved]
####### ยง 96.106 Standard requirements.
######## Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided, the owners and operators of the CAIR NOsource and each CAIR NOunit at the source shall keep on site at the source each of the following documents for a period of 5 years from the date the document is created. This period may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of 5 years, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator.

(i) The certificate of representation under ยง 96.113 for the CAIR designated representative for the source and each CAIR NOunit at the source and all documents that demonstrate the truth of the statements in the certificate of representation; provided that the certificate and documents shall be retained on site at the source beyond such 5-year period until such documents are superseded because of the submission of a new certificate of representation under ยง 96.113 changing the CAIR designated representative.

(ii) All emissions monitoring information, in accordance with subpart HH of this part, provided that to the extent that subpart HH of this part provides for a 3-year period for recordkeeping, the 3-year period shall apply.

(iii) Copies of all reports, compliance certifications, and other submissions and all records made or required under the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program.

(iv) Copies of all documents used to complete a CAIR permit application and any other submission under the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program or to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program.

(2) The CAIR designated representative of a CAIR NOsource and each CAIR NOunit at the source shall submit the reports required under the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program, including those under subpart HH of this part.
