
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subparts K-Z [Reserved]
####### ยง 96.106 Standard requirements.
######## Nitrogen oxides emission requirements.

(c)(1) As of the allowance transfer deadline for a control period, the owners and operators of each CAIR NOsource and each CAIR NOunit at the source shall hold, in the source's compliance account, CAIR NOallowances available for compliance deductions for the control period under ยง 96.154(a) in an amount not less than the tons of total nitrogen oxides emissions for the control period from all CAIR NOunits at the source, as determined in accordance with subpart HH of this part.

(2) A CAIR NOunit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the control period starting on the later of January 1, 2009 or the deadline for meeting the unit's monitor certification requirements under ยง 96.170(b)(1), (2), or (5) and for each control period thereafter.

(3) A CAIR NOallowance shall not be deducted, for compliance with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a control period in a calendar year before the year for which the CAIR NOallowance was allocated.

(4) CAIR NOallowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred into or among CAIR NOAllowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with subparts FF, GG, and II of this part.

(5) A CAIR NOallowance is a limited authorization to emit one ton of nitrogen oxides in accordance with the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program. No provision of the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program, the CAIR permit application, the CAIR permit, or an exemption under ยง 96.105 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the State or the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.

(6) A CAIR NOallowance does not constitute a property right.

(7) Upon recordation by the Administrator under subpart EE, FF, GG, or II of this part, every allocation, transfer, or deduction of a CAIR NOallowance to or from a CAIR NOsource's compliance account is incorporated automatically in any CAIR permit of the source.
