
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart DD [Reserved]
####### ยง 96.151 Establishment of accounts.
######## Authorization of CAIR authorized account representative and alternate CAIR authorized account representative.

(2)(i) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete application for a general account under paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(A) The Administrator will establish a general account for the person or persons for whom the application is submitted.

(B) The CAIR authorized account representative and any alternate CAIR authorized account representative for the general account shall represent and, by his or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind each person who has an ownership interest with respect to CAIR NOallowances held in the general account in all matters pertaining to the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program, notwithstanding any agreement between the CAIR authorized account representative or any alternate CAIR authorized account representative and such person. Any such person shall be bound by any order or decision issued to the CAIR authorized account representative or any alternate CAIR authorized account representative by the Administrator or a court regarding the general account.

(C) Any representation, action, inaction, or submission by any alternate CAIR authorized account representative shall be deemed to be a representation, action, inaction, or submission by the CAIR authorized account representative.

(ii) Each submission concerning the general account shall be submitted, signed, and certified by the CAIR authorized account representative or any alternate CAIR authorized account representative for the persons having an ownership interest with respect to CAIR NOallowances held in the general account. Each such submission shall include the following certification statement by the CAIR authorized account representative or any alternate CAIR authorized account representative: "I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the persons having an ownership interest with respect to the CAIR NOallowances held in the general account. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment."

(iii) The Administrator will accept or act on a submission concerning the general account only if the submission has been made, signed, and certified in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section.
