
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### ยง 96.170 General requirements.
####### Compliance deadlines.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall meet the monitoring system certification and other requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section on or before the following dates. The owner or operator shall record, report, and quality-assure the data from the monitoring systems under paragraph (a)(1) of this section on and after the following dates.

(1) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOunit that commences commercial operation before July 1, 2007, by January 1, 2008.

(2) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOunit that commences commercial operation on or after July 1, 2007, by the later of the following dates:

(i) January 1, 2008; or

(ii) 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days, whichever occurs first, after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation.

(3) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOunit for which construction of a new stack or flue or installation of add-on NOemission controls is completed after the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(1), (2), (4), or (5) of this section, by 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days, whichever occurs first, after the date on which emissions first exit to the atmosphere through the new stack or flue or add-on NOemissions controls.

(4) Notwithstanding the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, for the owner or operator of a unit for which a CAIR opt-in permit application is submitted and not withdrawn and a CAIR opt-in permit is not yet issued or denied under subpart II of this part, by the date specified in ยง 96.184(b).

(5) Notwithstanding the dates in paragraphs (b)(1) and (2) of this section, for the owner or operator of a CAIR NOopt-in unit under subpart II of this part, by the date on which the CAIR NOopt-in unit enters the CAIR NOAnnual Trading Program as provided in ยง 96.184(g).
