
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - Procedural Requirements
###### ยง 51.100 Definitions.
####### Control strategy

(n)means a combination of measures designated to achieve the aggregate reduction of emissions necessary for attainment and maintenance of national standards including, but not limited to, measures such as:

(1) Emission limitations.

(2) Federal or State emission charges or taxes or other economic incentives or disincentives.

(3) Closing or relocation of residential, commercial, or industrial facilities.

(4) Changes in schedules or methods of operation of commercial or industrial facilities or transportation systems, including, but not limited to, short-term changes made in accordance with standby plans.

(5) Periodic inspection and testing of motor vehicle emission control systems, at such time as the Administrator determines that such programs are feasible and practicable.

(6) Emission control measures applicable to in-use motor vehicles, including, but not limited to, measures such as mandatory maintenance, installation of emission control devices, and conversion to gaseous fuels.

(7) Any transportation control measure including those transportation measures listed in section 108(f) of the Clean Air Act as amended.

(8) Any variation of, or alternative to any measure delineated herein.

(9) Control or prohibition of a fuel or fuel additive used in motor vehicles, if such control or prohibition is necessary to achieve a national primary or secondary air quality standard and is approved by the Administrator under section 211(c)(4)(C) of the Act.
