
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subparts JJJ-ZZZ [Reserved]
####### ยง 96.306 Standard requirements.
######## Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided, the owners and operators of the CAIR NOOzone Season source and each CAIR NOOzone Season unit at the source shall keep on site at the source each of the following documents for a period of 5 years from the date the document is created. This period may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of 5 years, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator.

(i) The certificate of representation under ยง 96.313 for the CAIR designated representative for the source and each CAIR NOOzone Season unit at the source and all documents that demonstrate the truth of the statements in the certificate of representation; provided that the certificate and documents shall be retained on site at the source beyond such 5-year period until such documents are superseded because of the submission of a new certificate of representation under ยง 96.313 changing the CAIR designated representative.

(ii) All emissions monitoring information, in accordance with subpart HHHH of this part, provided that to the extent that subpart HHHH of this part provides for a 3-year period for recordkeeping, the 3-year period shall apply.

(iii) Copies of all reports, compliance certifications, and other submissions and all records made or required under the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program.

(iv) Copies of all documents used to complete a CAIR permit application and any other submission under the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program or to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program.

(2) The CAIR designated representative of a CAIR NOOzone Season source and each CAIR NOOzone Season unit at the source shall submit the reports required under the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program, including those under subpart HHHH of this part.
