
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - Procedural Requirements
###### ยง 51.101 Stipulations.

Nothing in this part will be construed in any manner:

(a) To encourage a State to prepare, adopt, or submit a plan which does not provide for the protection and enhancement of air quality so as to promote the public health and welfare and productive capacity.

(b) To encourage a State to adopt any particular control strategy without taking into consideration the cost-effectiveness of such control strategy in relation to that of alternative control strategies.

(c) To preclude a State from employing techniques other than those specified in this part for purposes of estimating air quality or demonstrating the adequacy of a control strategy, provided that such other techniques are shown to be adequate and appropriate for such purposes.

(d) To encourage a State to prepare, adopt, or submit a plan without taking into consideration the social and economic impact of the control strategy set forth in such plan, including, but not limited to, impact on availability of fuels, energy, transportation, and employment.

(e) To preclude a State from preparing, adopting, or submitting a plan which provides for attainment and maintenance of a national standard through the application of a control strategy not specifically identified or described in this part.

(f) To preclude a State or political subdivision thereof from adopting or enforcing any emission limitations or other measures or combinations thereof to attain and maintain air quality better than that required by a national standard.

(g) To encourage a State to adopt a control strategy uniformly applicable throughout a region unless there is no satisfactory alternative way of providing for attainment and maintenance of a national standard throughout such region.
