
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 96 - NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM AND CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS FOR STATE IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart HHHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 96.370 General requirements.
####### Compliance deadlines.

(b)Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this section, the owner or operator shall meet the monitoring system certification and other requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section on or before the following dates. The owner or operator shall record, report, and quality-assure the data from the monitoring systems under paragraph (a)(1) of this section on and after the following dates.

(1) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOOzone Season unit that commences commercial operation before July 1, 2007, by May 1, 2008.

(2) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOOzone Season unit that commences commercial operation on or after July 1, 2007 and that reports on an annual basis under § 96.374(d), by the later of the following dates:

(i) 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days, whichever occurs first, after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation; or

(ii) May 1, 2008.

(3) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOOzone Season unit that commences commercial operation on or after July 1, 2007 and that reports on a control period basis under § 96.374(d)(2)(ii), by the later of the following dates:

(i) 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days, whichever occurs first, after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation; or

(ii) If the compliance date under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section is not during a control period, May 1 immediately following the compliance date under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section.

(4) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOOzone Season unit for which construction of a new stack or flue or installation of add-on NOemission controls is completed after the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(1), (2), (6), or (7) of this section and that reports on an annual basis under § 96.374(d), by 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days, whichever occurs first, after the date on which emissions first exit to the atmosphere through the new stack or flue or add-on NOemissions controls.

(5) For the owner or operator of a CAIR NOOzone Season unit for which construction of a new stack or flue or installation of add-on NOemission controls is completed after the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(1), (3), (6), or (7) of this section and that reports on a control period basis under § 96.374(d)(2)(ii), by the later of the following dates:

(i) 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days, whichever occurs first, after the date on which emissions first exit to the atmosphere through the new stack or flue or add-on NOemissions controls; or

(ii) If the compliance date under paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section is not during a control period, May 1 immediately following the compliance date under paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this section.

(6) Notwithstanding the dates in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, for the owner or operator of a unit for which a CAIR NOOzone Season opt-in permit application is submitted and not withdrawn and a CAIR opt-in permit is not yet issued or denied under subpart IIII of this part, by the date specified in § 96.384(b).

(7) Notwithstanding the dates in paragraphs (b)(1), (2), and (3) of this section, for the owner or operator of a CAIR NOOzone Season opt-in unit, by the date on which the CAIR NOOzone Season opt-in unit under subpart IIII of this part enters the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program as provided in § 96.384(g).
