
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart F - Procedural Requirements
###### § 51.102 Public hearings.
####### If no request for a public hearing is received the hearing will be cancelled; identifies the method and time for announcing that the hearing has been cancelled; and provides a contact phone number for the public to call to find out if the hearing has been cancelled.

(a) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c) of this section and within the 30 day notification period as required by paragraph (d) of this section, States must provide notice, provide the opportunity to submit written comments and allow the public the opportunity to request a public hearing. The State must hold a public hearing or provide the public the opportunity to request a public hearing. The notice announcing the 30 day notification period must include the date, place and time of the public hearing. If the State provides the public the opportunity to request a public hearing and a request is received the State must hold the scheduled hearing or schedule a public hearing (as required by paragraph (d) of this section). The State may cancel the public hearing through a method it identifies if no request for a public hearing is received during the 30 day notification period and the original notice announcing the 30 day notification period clearly states:These requirements apply for adoption and submission to EPA of:

(1) Any plan or revision of it required by § 51.104(a).

(2) Any individual compliance schedule under (§ 51.260).

(3) Any revision under § 51.104(d).

(b) Separate hearings may be held for plans to implement primary and secondary standards.

(c) No hearing will be required for any change to an increment of progress in an approved individual compliance schedule unless such change is likely to cause the source to be unable to comply with the final compliance date in the schedule. The requirements of §§ 51.104 and 51.105 will be applicable to such schedules, however.

(d) Any hearing required by paragraph (a) of this section will be held only after reasonable notice, which will be considered to include, at least 30 days prior to the date of such hearing(s):

(1) Notice given to the public by prominent advertisement in the area affected announcing the date(s), time(s), and place(s) of such hearing(s);

(2) Availability of each proposed plan or revision for public inspection in at least one location in each region to which it will apply, and the availability of each compliance schedule for public inspection in at least one location in the region in which the affected source is located;

(3) Notification to the Administrator (through the appropriate Regional Office);

(4) Notification to each local air pollution control agency which will be significantly impacted by such plan, schedule or revision;

(5) In the case of an interstate region, notification to any other States included, in whole or in part, in the regions which are significantly impacted by such plan or schedule or revision.

(e) The State must prepare and retain, for inspection by the Administrator upon request, a record of each hearing. The record must contain, as a minimum, a list of witnesses together with the text of each presentation.

(f) The State must submit with the plan, revision, or schedule, a certification that the requirements in paragraph (a) and (d) of this section were met. Such certification will include the date and place of any public hearing(s) held or that no public hearing was requested during the 30 day notification period.

(g) Upon written application by a State agency (through the appropriate Regional Office), the Administrator may approve State procedures for public hearings. The following criteria apply:

(1) Procedures approved under this section shall be deemed to satisfy the requirement of this part regarding public hearings.

(2) Procedures different from this part may be approved if they-

(i) Ensure public participation in matters for which hearings are required; and

(ii) Provide adequate public notification of the opportunity to participate.

(3) The Administrator may impose any conditions on approval he or she deems necessary.
