
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
####### § 97.5 Retired unit exemption.

(a) This section applies to any NOBudget unit, other than a NOBudget opt-in unit, that is permanently retired.

(b)(1) Any NOBudget unit, other than a NOBudget opt-in unit, that is permanently retired shall be exempt from the NOBudget Trading Program, except for the provisions of this section, § 97.2, § 97.3, § 97.4, § 97.7, and subparts E, F, and G of this part.

(2) The exemption under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall become effective the day on which the unit is permanently retired. Within 30 days of permanent retirement, the NOauthorized account representative (authorized in accordance with subpart B of this part) shall submit a statement to the permitting authority otherwise responsible for administering any NOBudget permit for the unit. The NOauthorized account representative shall submit a copy of the statement to the Administrator. The statement shall state, in a format prescribed by the permitting authority, that the unit is permanently retired and will comply with the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(3) After receipt of the notice under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the permitting authority will amend any permit covering the source at which the unit is located to add the provisions and requirements of the exemption under paragraphs (b)(1) and (c) of this section.
