
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
####### ยง 97.6 Standard requirements.
######## Recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided, the owners and operators of the NOBudget source and each NOBudget unit at the source shall keep on site at the source each of the following documents for a period of 5 years from the date the document is created. This period may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of 5 years, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator.

(i) The account certificate of representation under ยง 97.13 for the NOauthorized account representative for the source and each NOBudget unit at the source and all documents that demonstrate the truth of the statements in the account certificate of representation; provided that the certificate and documents shall be retained on site at the source beyond such 5-year period until such documents are superseded because of the submission of a new account certificate of representation under ยง 97.13 changing the NOauthorized account representative.

(ii) All emissions monitoring information, in accordance with subpart H of this part; provided that to the extent that subpart H of this part provides for a 3-year period for recordkeeping, the 3-year period shall apply.

(iii) Copies of all reports, compliance certifications, and other submissions and all records made or required under the NOBudget Trading Program.

(iv) Copies of all documents used to complete a NOBudget permit application and any other submission under the NOBudget Trading Program or to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of the NOBudget Trading Program.

(2) The NOauthorized account representative of a NOBudget source and each NOBudget unit at the source shall submit the reports and compliance certifications required under the NOBudget Trading Program, including those under subpart D, H, or I of this part.
