
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
####### § 97.4 Applicability.
######## Special provisions.

(4)(i) A unit exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall comply with the restriction on fuel use and unit operating hours described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section during the control period in each year.

(ii) The Administrator will allocate NOallowances to the unit under §§ 97.41(a) through (c) and 97.42(a) through (c). For each control period for which the unit is allocated NOallowances under §§ 97.41(a) through (c) and 97.42(a) through (c):

(A) The owners and operators of the unit must specify a general account, in which the Administrator will record the NOallowances; and

(B) After the Administrator records a NOallowance allocations under §§ 97.41(a) through (c) and 97.42(a) through (c), the Administrator will deduct, from the general account under paragraph (b)(4)(ii)(A) of this section, NOallowances that are allocated for the same or a prior control period as the NOallowances allocated to the unit under §§ 97.41(a) through (c) and 97.42(a) through (c) and that equal the NOemission limitation (in tons of NO) on which the unit's exemption under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is based. The NOauthorized account representative shall ensure that such general account contains the NOallowances necessary for completion of such deduction.

(iii) A unit exempt under this paragraph (b) shall report hours of unit operation during the control period in each year to the permitting authority by November 1 of that year.

(iv) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall retain, at the source that includes the unit, records demonstrating that the conditions of the federally enforceable permit under paragraph (b)(1) of this section were met, including the restriction on fuel use or unit operating hours. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of the period, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit met the restriction on fuel use or unit operating hours.

(v) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the NOauthorized account representative of a unit exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall comply with the requirements of the NOBudget Trading Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.

(vi) On the earlier of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section shall lose its exemption:

(A) The date on which the restriction on fuel use or unit operating hours described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section is removed from the unit's federally enforceable permit or otherwise becomes no longer applicable to any control period starting in 2004; or

(B) The first date on which the unit fails to comply, or with regard to which the owners and operators fail to meet their burden of proving that the unit is complying, with the restriction on fuel use or unit operating hours described in paragraph (b)(1) of this section during any control period starting in 2004.

(vii) A unit that loses its exemption in accordance with paragraph (b)(4)(vi) of this section shall be subject to the requirements of this part. For the purpose of applying permitting requirements under subpart C of this part, allocating allowances under subpart E of this part, and applying monitoring requirements under subpart H of this part, the unit shall be treated as commencing operation and, if the unit is covered by paragraph (a)(1) of this section, commencing commercial operation on the date the unit loses its exemption.

(viii) A unit that is exempt under paragraph (b)(1) of this section is not eligible to be a NOBudget opt-in unit under subpart I of this part.
