
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
####### ยง 97.5 Retired unit exemption.
######## Special provisions.

(c)(1) A unit exempt under this section shall not emit any nitrogen oxides, starting on the date that the exemption takes effect.

(2) The Administrator will allocate NOallowances under subpart E of this part to a unit exempt under this section. For each control period for which the unit is allocated one or more NOallowances, the owners and operators of the unit shall specify a general account, in which the Administrator will record such NOallowances.

(3) For a period of 5 years from the date the records are created, the owners and operators of a unit exempt under this section shall retain at the source that includes the unit, records demonstrating that the unit is permanently retired. The 5-year period for keeping records may be extended for cause, at any time prior to the end of the period, in writing by the permitting authority or the Administrator. The owners and operators bear the burden of proof that the unit is permanently retired.

(4) The owners and operators and, to the extent applicable, the NOauthorized account representative of a unit exempt under this section shall comply with the requirements of the NOBudget Trading Program concerning all periods for which the exemption is not in effect, even if such requirements arise, or must be complied with, after the exemption takes effect.

(5)(i) A unit exempt under this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a title V operating permit shall not resume operation unless the NOauthorized account representative of the source submits a complete NOBudget permit application under ยง 97.22 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the unit resumes operation.

(ii) A unit exempt under this section and located at a source that is required, or but for this exemption would be required, to have a non-title V permit shall not resume operation unless the NOauthorized account representative of the source submits a complete NOBudget permit application under ยง 97.22 for the unit not less than 18 months (or such lesser time provided by the permitting authority) before the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the unit is to first resume operation.

(6) On the earlier of the following dates, a unit exempt under paragraph (b) of this section shall lose its exemption:

(i) The date on which the NOauthorized account representative submits a NOBudget permit application under paragraph (c)(5) of this section;

(ii) The date on which the NOauthorized account representative is required under paragraph (c)(5) of this section to submit a NOBudget permit application; or

(iii) The date on which the unit resumes operation, if the unit is not required to submit a NOpermit application.

(7) For the purpose of applying monitoring requirements under subpart H of this part, a unit that loses its exemption under this section shall be treated as a unit that commences operation or commercial operation on the first date on which the unit resumes operation.

(8) A unit that is exempt under this section is not eligible to be a NOBudget opt-in unit under subpart I of this part.
