
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
####### ยง 97.6 Standard requirements.
######## Liability.

(f)(1) Any person who knowingly violates any requirement or prohibition of the NOBudget Trading Program, a NOBudget permit, or an exemption under ยง 97.4(b) or ยง 97.5 shall be subject to enforcement pursuant to applicable State or Federal law.

(2) Any person who knowingly makes a false material statement in any record, submission, or report under the NOBudget Trading Program shall be subject to criminal enforcement pursuant to the applicable State or Federal law.

(3) No permit revision shall excuse any violation of the requirements of the NOBudget Trading Program that occurs prior to the date that the revision takes effect.

(4) Each NOBudget source and each NOBudget unit shall meet the requirements of the NOBudget Trading Program.

(5) Any provision of the NOBudget Trading Program that applies to a NOBudget source or the NOauthorized account representative of a NOBudget source shall also apply to the owners and operators of such source and of the NOBudget units at the source.

(6) Any provision of the NOBudget Trading Program that applies to a NOBudget unit or the NOauthorized account representative of a NObudget unit shall also apply to the owners and operators of such unit. Except with regard to the requirements applicable to units with a common stack under subpart H of this part, the owners and operators and the NOauthorized account representative of one NOBudget unit shall not be liable for any violation by any other NOBudget unit of which they are not owners or operators or the NOauthorized account representative and that is located at a source of which they are not owners or operators or the NOauthorized account representative.
