
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
####### § 97.6 Standard requirements.
######## Nitrogen oxides requirements.

(c)(1) The owners and operators of each NOBudget source and each NOBudget unit at the source shall hold NOallowances available for compliance deductions under § 97.54(a), (b), (e), or (f) as of the NOallowance transfer deadline, in the unit's compliance account and the source's overdraft account in an amount not less than the total NOemissions for the control period from the unit, as determined in accordance with subpart H of this part, plus any amount necessary to account for actual heat input under § 97.42(e) for the control period or to account for excess emissions for a prior control period under § 97.54(d) or to account for withdrawal from the NOBudget Trading Program, or a change in regulatory status, of a NOBudget opt-in unit under § 97.86 or § 97.87.

(2) Each ton of nitrogen oxides emitted in excess of the NOBudget emissions limitation shall constitute a separate violation of this part, the Clean Air Act, and applicable State law.

(3) A NOBudget unit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section starting on the later of May 31, 2004 or the date on which the unit commences operation.

(4) NOallowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred among NOAllowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with subparts E, F, G, and I of this part.

(5) A NOallowance shall not be deducted, in order to comply with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a control period in a year prior to the year for which the NOallowance was allocated.

(6) A NOallowance allocated by the Administrator under the NOBudget Trading Program is a limited authorization to emit one ton of nitrogen oxides in accordance with the NOBudget Trading Program. No provision of the NOBudget Trading Program, the NOBudget permit application, the NOBudget permit, or an exemption under § 97.4(b) or § 97.5 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.

(7) A NOallowance allocated by the Administrator under the NOBudget Trading Program does not constitute a property right.

(8) Upon recordation by the Administrator under subpart F or G of this part, every allocation, transfer, or deduction of a NOallowance to or from a NOBudget unit's compliance account or the overdraft account of the source where the unit is located is incorporated automatically in any NOBudget permit of the NOBudget unit.
