
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Compliance Certification
###### § 97.31 Administrator's action on compliance certifications.
####### § 97.43 Compliance Supplement Pool.

(a) For any NOBudget unit that reduces its NOemission rate in the 2001 through 2003 control period, the owners and operators may request early reduction credits in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) Each NOBudget unit for which the owners and operators intend to request, or request, any early reduction credits in accordance with paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall monitor and report NOemissions in accordance with subpart H of this part starting in the 2000 control period and for each control period for which such early reduction credits are requested. The unit's percent monitor data availability shall not be less than 90 percent during the 2000 control period, and the unit must be in full compliance with any applicable State or Federal NOemission control requirements during 2000 through 2002.

(2) NOemission rate and heat input under paragraphs (a)(3) and (4) of this section shall be determined in accordance with subpart H of this part.

(3) Each NOBudget unit for which the owners and operators intend to request, or request, any early reduction credits under paragraph (a)(4) of this section shall reduce its NOemission rate, for each control period for which early reduction credits are requested, to less than both 0.25 lb/mmBtu and 80 percent of the unit's NOemission rate in the 2000 control period.

(4) The NOauthorized account representative of a NOBudget unit that meets the requirements of paragraphs (a) (1) and (3) of this section may submit to the Administrator a request for early reduction credits for the unit based on NOemission rate reductions made by the unit in the control period for 2001 through 2003.

(i) In the early reduction credit request, the NOauthorized account may request early reduction credits for such control period in an amount equal to the unit's heat input for such control period multiplied by the difference between 0.25 lb/mmBtu and the unit's NOemission rate for such control period, divided by 2000 lb/ton, and rounded to the nearest whole number of tons.

(ii) The early reduction credit request must be submitted, in a format specified by the Administrator, by February 1, 2004.

(b) For any NOBudget unit that is subject to the Ozone Transport Commission NOBudget Program under title I of the Clean Air Act, the owners and operators may request early reduction credits in accordance with the following requirements:

(1) The NOauthorized account representative of the unit may submit to the Administrator a request for early reduction credits in an amount equal to the amount of banked allowances under the Ozone Transport Commission NOBudget Program that were allocated for the control period in 2001 through 2003 and are held by the unit, in accordance with the Ozone Transport Commission NOBudget Program, as of the date of submission of the request. During the entire control period in 2001 through 2003 for which the allowances were allocated, the unit must have monitored and reported NOemissions in accordance with part 75 (except for subpart H) of this chapter and the Guidance for Implementation of Emission Monitoring Requirements for the NOBudget Program (January 28, 1997).

(2) The early reduction credit request under paragraph (b)(1) must be submitted, in a format specified by the Administrator, by February 1, 2004.

(3) The NOauthorized account representative of the unit shall not submit a request for early reduction credits under paragraph (b)(1) of this section for banked allowances under the Ozone Transport Commission NOBudget Program that were allocated for any control period during which the unit made NOemission reductions for which he or she submits a request for early reduction credits under paragraph (a) of this section for the unit.

(c) The Administrator will review each early reduction credit request submitted in accordance with paragraph (a) or (b) of this section and will allocate NOallowances to NOBudget units in a given State and covered by such request as follows:

(1) Upon receipt of each early reduction credit request, the Administrator will make any necessary adjustments to the request to ensure that the amount of the early reduction credits requested meets the requirements of paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(2) After February 1, 2004, the Administrator will make available to the public a statement of the total number of early reduction credits requested by NOBudget units in the State.

(3) If the State's compliance supplement pool set forth in appendix D to this subpart has a number of NOallowances not less than the amount of early reduction credits in all early reduction credit requests under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section for 2001 through 2003 (as adjusted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section) submitted by February 1, 2004, the Administrator will allocate to each NOBudget unit covered by such requests one allowance for each early reduction credit requested (as adjusted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section).

(4) If the State's compliance supplement pool set forth in appendix D to this subpart has a smaller number of NOallowances than the amount of early reduction credits in all early reduction credit requests under paragraph (a) or (b) of this section for 2001 through 2003 (as adjusted under paragraph (c)(1) of this section) submitted by February 1, 2004, the Administrator will allocate NOallowances to each NOBudget unit covered by such requests according to the following formula and rounding to the nearest whole number of NOallowances as appropriate:

(5) By April 1, 2004, the Administrator will determine by order the allocations under paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section. The Administrator will make available to the public each determination of NOallowance allocations and will provide an opportunity for submission of objections to the determination. Objections shall be limited to addressing whether the determination is in accordance with paragraph (c)(1), (3), or (4) of this section. Based on any such objections, the Administrator will adjust each determination to the extent necessary to ensure that it is in accordance with paragraph (c)(1), (3), or (4) of this section.

(6) By May 1, 2004, the Administrator will record the allocations under paragraph (c)(3) or (4) of this section.

(7) NOallowances recorded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section may be deducted for compliance under § 97.54 for the control period in 2004 or 2005. Notwithstanding § 97.55(a), the Administrator will deduct as retired any NOallowance that is recorded under paragraph (c)(6) of this section and that is not deducted for compliance under § 97.54 for the control period in 2003 or 2004.
