
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Compliance Certification
###### § 97.31 Administrator's action on compliance certifications.
####### § 97.40 Trading program budget.
############### § 97.41 Timing requirements for NOallowance allocations.

(a) The NOallowance allocations, determined in accordance with §§ 97.42(a) through (c), for the control periods in 2004 through 2007 are set forth in appendices A and B to this subpart.

(b) By April 1, 2005, the Administrator will determine by order the NOallowance allocations, in accordance with §§ 97.42 (a) through (c), for the control periods in 2008 through 2012.

(c) By April 1, 2010, by April 1 of 2015, and thereafter by April 1 of the year that is 5 years after the last year for which NOallowances allocations are determined, the Administrator will determine by order the NOallowance allocations, in accordance with §§ 97.42(a) through (c), for the control periods in the years that are 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7 years after the applicable deadline under this paragraph (c).

(d) By April 1, 2004 and April 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will determine by order the NOallowance allocations, in accordance with § 97.42(d), for the control period in the year of the applicable deadline under this paragraph (d).

(e) The Administrator will make available to the public each determination of NOallowance allocations under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this section and will provide an opportunity for submission of objections to the determination. Objections shall be limited to addressing whether the determination is in accordance with § 97.42. Based on any such objections, the Administrator will adjust each determination to the extent necessary to ensure that it is in accordance with § 97.42.
