
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Compliance Certification
###### ยง 97.31 Administrator's action on compliance certifications.
####### ยง 97.51 Establishment of accounts.
######## Authorization of NO,authorized account representative.

(2)Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete application for a general account under paragraph (b)(1) of this section:

(i) The Administrator will establish a general account for the person or persons for whom the application is submitted.

(ii) The NOauthorized account representative and any alternate NOauthorized account representative for the general account shall represent and, by his or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind each person who has an ownership interest with respect to NOallowances held in the general account in all matters pertaining to the NOBudget Trading Program, not withstanding any agreement between the NOauthorized account representative or any alternate NOauthorized account representative and such person. Any such person shall be bound by any order or decision issued to the NOauthorized account representative or any alternate NOauthorized account representative by the Administrator or a court regarding the general account.

(iii) Any representation, action, inaction, or submission by any alternate NOauthorized account representative shall be deemed to be a representation, action, inaction, or submission by the NOauthorized account representative.

(iv) Each submission concerning the general account shall be submitted, signed, and certified by the NOauthorized account representative or any alternate NOauthorized account representative for the persons having an ownership interest with respect to NOallowances held in the general account. Each such submission shall include the following certification statement by the NOauthorized account representative or any alternate NOauthorizing account representative: "I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the persons having an ownership interest with respect to the NOallowances held in the general account. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment."

(v) The Administrator will accept or act on a submission concerning the general account only if the submission has been made, signed, and certified in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(iv) of this section.
