
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart D - Compliance Certification
###### ยง 97.31 Administrator's action on compliance certifications.
####### ยง 97.54 Compliance.
######## Deductions for excess emissions.

(d)(1) After making the deductions for compliance under paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator will deduct from the unit's compliance account or the overdraft account of the source where the unit is located a number of NOallowances, allocated for a control period after the control period in which the unit has excess emissions, equal to three times the number of the unit's excess emissions.

(2) If the compliance account or overdraft account does not contain sufficient NOallowances, the Administrator will deduct the required number of NOallowances, regardless of the control period for which they were allocated, whenever NOallowances are recorded in either account.

(3) Any allowance deduction required under paragraph (d) of this section shall not affect the liability of the owners and operators of the NOBudget unit for any fine, penalty, or assessment, or their obligation to comply with any other remedy, for the same violation, as ordered under the Clean Air Act or applicable State law. The following guidelines will be followed in assessing fines, penalties or other obligations:

(i) For purposes of determining the number of days of violation, if a NOBudget unit has excess emissions for a control period, each day in the control period (153 days) constitutes a day in violation unless the owners and operators of the unit demonstrate that a lesser number of days should be considered.

(ii) Each ton of excess emissions is a separate violation.
