
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.70 General requirements.
####### Compliance deadlines.

(b)The owner or operator shall meet the certification and other requirements of paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section on or before the following dates. The owner or operator shall record, report and quality-assure the data from the monitoring systems under paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section on and after the following dates.

(1) For the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit for which the owner or operator intends to apply for early reduction credits under § 97.43, by May 1, 2001. If the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit fails to meet this deadline, he or she is not eligible to apply for early reduction credits and is subject to the deadline under paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(2) For the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit under § 97.4(a) that commences operation before January 1, 2003 and that is not subject to or does not meet the deadline under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, by May 1, 2003.

(3) For the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit under § 97.4(a) that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003 and that reports on an annual basis under § 97.74(d) by the following dates:

(i) The earlier of 90 unit operating days after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation or 180 calendar days after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation; or

(ii) May 1, 2003, if the compliance date under paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section is before May 1, 2003.

(4) For the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit under § 97.4(a) that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003 and that reports on a control period basis under § 97.74(d)(2)(ii), by the following dates:

(i) The earlier of 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days after the date on which the unit commences commercial operation, if this compliance date is during a control period; or

(ii) May 1 immediately following the compliance date under paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section, if such compliance date is not during a control period.

(5) For the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit that has a new stack or flue or add-on NOemission controls for which construction is completed after the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section or under subpart I of this part and that reports on an annual basis under § 97.74(d), by the earlier of 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days after the date on which emissions first exit to the atmosphere through the new stack or flue or add-on NOemission controls.

(6) For the owner or operator of a NOBudget unit that has a new stack or flue or add-on NOemission controls for which construction is completed after the applicable deadline under paragraph (b)(1), (b)(2), (b)(3), or (b)(4) of this section or under subpart I of this part and that reports on a control period basis under § 97.74(d)(2)(ii), by the following dates:

(i) The earlier of 90 unit operating days or 180 calendar days after the date on which emissions first exit to the atmosphere through the new stack or flue or add-on NOemission controls, if this compliance date is during a control period; or

(ii) May 1 immediately following the compliance date under paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section, if such compliance date is not during a control period.

(7) For the owner or operator of a unit for which an application for a NOBudget opt-in permit is submitted and not denied or withdrawn, by the date specified under subpart I of this part.
