
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart H - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.74 Recordkeeping and reporting.
####### Quarterly reports.

(d)The NOauthorized account representative shall submit quarterly reports, as follows:

(1) If a unit is subject to an Acid Rain emission limitation or if the owner or operator of the NObudget unit chooses to meet the annual reporting requirements of this subpart H, the NOauthorized account representative shall submit a quarterly report for each calendar quarter beginning with:

(i) For a unit for which the owner or operator intends to apply or applies for the early reduction credits under § 97.43, the calendar quarter that covers May 1, 2000 through June 30, 2000. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2000; or

(ii) For a unit that commences operation before January 1, 2003 and that is not subject to paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, the calendar quarter covering May 1, 2003 through June 30, 2003. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2003; or

(iii) For a unit that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003:

(A) The calendar quarter in which the unit commences operation, if unit operation commences during a control period. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the date and hour when the unit commences operation; or

(B) The calendar quarter which includes May 1 through June 30 of the first control period following the date on which the unit commences operation, if the unit does not commence operation during a control period. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1 of that control period; or

(iv) A calendar quarter before the quarter specified in paragraph (d)(1)(i), (d)(1)(ii), or (d)(1)(iii)(B) of this section, if the owner or operator elects to begin reporting early under § 97.70(c)(3).

(2) If a NObudget unit is not subject to an Acid Rain emission limitation, then the NOauthorized account representative shall either:

(i) Meet all of the requirements of part 75 related to monitoring and reporting NOmass emissions during the entire year and meet the deadlines specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section; or

(ii) Submit quarterly reports, documenting NOmass emissions from the unit, only for the period from May 1 through September 30 of each year and including the data described in § 75.74(c)(6) of this chapter. The NOauthorized account representative shall submit such quarterly reports, beginning with:

(A) For a unit for which the owner or operator intends to apply or applies for the early reduction credits under § 97.43, the calendar quarter that covers May 1, 2000 through June 30, 2000. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2000; or

(B) For a unit that commences operation before January 1, 2003 and that is not subject to paragraph (d)(2)(ii)(A) of this section, the calendar quarter covering May 1, 2003 through June 30, 2003. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1, 2003; or

(C) For a unit that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003 and during a control period, the calendar quarter in which the unit commences operation. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the date and hour when the unit commences operation; or

(D) For a unit that commences operation on or after January 1, 2003 and not during a control period, the calendar quarter which includes May 1 through June 30 of the first control period following the date on which the unit commences operation. The NOmass emission data shall be recorded and reported from the first hour on May 1 of that control period.

(3) The NOauthorized account representative shall submit each quarterly report to the Administrator within 30 days following the end of the calendar quarter covered by the report. Quarterly reports shall be submitted in the manner specified in subpart H of part 75 of this chapter and § 75.64 of this chapter.

(i) For units subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation, quarterly reports shall include all of the data and information required in subpart H of part 75 of this chapter for each NOBudget unit (or group of units using a common stack) and the data and information required in subpart G of part 75 of this chapter.

(ii) For units not subject to an Acid Rain emissions limitation, quarterly reports are only required to include all of the data and information required in subpart H of part 75 of this chapter for each NOBudget unit (or group of units using a common stack).
