
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Individual Unit Opt-ins
###### ยง 97.84 Opt-in process.
####### Interim review of monitoring plan.

(a)The Administrator will determine, on an interim basis, the sufficiency of the monitoring plan accompanying the initial application for a NOBudget opt-in permit under ยง 97.83. A monitoring plan is sufficient, for purposes of interim review, if the plan appears to contain information demonstrating that the NOemissions rate and heat input rate of the unit are monitored and reported in accordance with subpart H of this part. A determination of sufficiency shall not be construed as acceptance or approval of the unit's monitoring plan.

(b) If the Administrator determines that the unit's monitoring plan is sufficient under paragraph (a) of this section and after completion of monitoring system certification under subpart H of this part, the NOemissions rate and the heat input of the unit shall be monitored and reported in accordance with subpart H of this part for one full control period during which percent monitor data availability is not less than 90 percent and during which the unit is in full compliance with any applicable State or Federal emissions or emissions-related requirements. Solely for purposes of applying the requirements in the prior sentence, the unit shall be treated as a "NOBudget unit" prior to issuance of a NOBudget opt-in permit covering the unit.

(c) Based on the information monitored and reported under paragraph (b) of this section, the Administrator will calculate the unit's baseline heat input, which will equal the unit's total heat input (in mmBtu) for the control period, and the unit's baseline NOemissions rate, which will equal the unit's total NOmass emissions (in lb) for the control period divided by the unit's baseline heat input.
