
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart I - Individual Unit Opt-ins
###### ยง 97.87 Change in regulatory status.
####### 2
######## NO,allotment allocation.

(a)(1) By April 1 immediately before the first control period for which the NOBudget opt-in permit is effective, the Administrator will determine by order the NOallowance allocations for the NOBudget opt-in unit for the control period in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(2) By no later than April 1, after the first control period for which the NOBudget opt-in permit is in effect, and April 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will determine by order the NOallowance allocations for the NOBudget opt-in unit for the next control period, in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The Administrator will make available to the public each determination of NOallowance allocations under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section and will provide an opportunity for submission of objections to the determination. Objections shall be limited to addressing whether the determination is in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section. Based on any such objections, the Administrator will adjust each determination to the extent necessary to ensure that it is in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(b) For each control period for which the NOBudget opt-in unit has an approved NOBudget opt-in permit, the NOBudget opt-in unit will be allocated NOallowances in accordance with the following procedures:

(1) The heat input (in mmBtu) used for calculating NOallowance allocations will be the lesser of:

(i) The unit's baseline heat input determined pursuant to ยง 97.84(c); or

(ii) The unit's heat input, as determined in accordance with subpart H of this part, for the control period in the year prior to the year of the control period for which the NOallocations are being calculated.

(2) The Administrator will allocate NOallowances to the unit in an amount equaling the heat input determined under paragraph (b)(1) of this section multiplied by the lesser of the unit's baseline NOemissions rate determined under ยง 97.84(c) or the most stringent State or federal NOemissions limitation applicable to the unit during the control period, divided by 2,000 lb/ton, and rounded to the nearest whole number of NOallowances as appropriate.
