
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart G - Control Strategy
###### § 51.121 Findings and requirements for submission of State implementation plan revisions relating to emissions of nitrogen oxides.
####### Phase II SIP submission
############# § 51.122 Emissions reporting requirements for SIP revisions relating to budgets for NOemissions.

(a) As used in this section, words and terms shall have the meanings set forth in § 51.50. In addition, the following terms shall apply to this section:

(1) Ozone season emissions means emissions during the period from May 1 through September 30 of a year.

(2) Summer day emissions means an average day's emissions for a typical summer work weekday. The state will select the particular month(s) in summer and the day(s) in the work week to be represented.

(b) For its transport SIP revision under § 51.121, each state must submit to EPA NOemissions data as described in this section.

(c) Each revision must provide for periodic reporting by the state of NOemissions data to demonstrate whether the state's emissions are consistent with the projections contained in its approved SIP submission.

(1) For the every-year reporting cycle, each revision must provide for reporting of NOemissions data every year as follows:

(i) The state must report to EPA emissions data from all NOsources within the state for which the state specified control measures in its SIP submission under § 51.121(g), including all sources for which the state has adopted measures that differ from the measures incorporated into the baseline inventory for the year 2007 that the state developed in accordance with § 51.121(g).The state must also report to EPA ozone season emissions of NOand summer day emissions of NOfrom any point, nonpoint, onroad mobile, or nonroad mobile source for which the state specified control measures in its SIP submission under § 51.121(g).

(ii) If sources report NOemissions data to EPA for a given year pursuant to the monitoring and reporting requirements of 40 CFR part 75, then the state need not provide an every-year cycle report to EPA for such sources.
