
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.175 Petitions.
####### § 97.206 Standard requirements.
######## Sulfur dioxide emission requirements.

(c)(1) As of the allowance transfer deadline for a control period, the owners and operators of each CAIR SOsource and each CAIR SOunit at the source shall hold, in the source's compliance account, a tonnage equivalent in CAIR SOallowances available for compliance deductions for the control period, as determined in accordance with § 97.254(a) and (b), not less than the tons of total sulfur dioxide emissions for the control period from all CAIR SOunits at the source, as determined in accordance with subpart HHH of this part.

(2) A CAIR SOunit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the control period starting on the later of January 1, 2010 or the deadline for meeting the unit(s monitor certification requirements under § 97.270(b)(1),(2), or (5) and for each control period thereafter.

(3) A CAIR SOallowance shall not be deducted, for compliance with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a control period in a calendar year before the year for which the CAIR SOallowance was allocated.

(4) CAIR SOallowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred into or among CAIR SOAllowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with subparts FFF, GGG, and III of this part.

(5) A CAIR SOallowance is a limited authorization to emit sulfur dioxide in accordance with the CAIR SOTrading Program. No provision of the CAIR SOTrading Program, the CAIR permit application, the CAIR permit, or an exemption under § 97.205 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.

(6) A CAIR SOallowance does not constitute a property right.

(7) Upon recordation by the Administrator under subpart FFF, GGG, or III of this part, every allocation, transfer, or deduction of a CAIR SOallowance to or from a CAIR SOsource's compliance account is incorporated automatically in any CAIR permit of the source.
