
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.175 Petitions.
####### § 97.210 Authorization and responsibilities of CAIR designated representative.

(a) Except as provided under § 97.211, each CAIR SOsource, including all CAIR SOunits at the source, shall have one and only one CAIR designated representative, with regard to all matters under the CAIR SOTrading Program concerning the source or any CAIR SOunit at the source.

(b) The CAIR designated representative of the CAIR SOsource shall be selected by an agreement binding on the owners and operators of the source and all CAIR SOunits at the source and shall act in accordance with the certification statement in § 97.213(a)(4)(iv).

(c) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation under § 97.213, the CAIR designated representative of the source shall represent and, by his or her representations, actions, inactions, or submissions, legally bind each owner and operator of the CAIR SOsource represented and each CAIR SOunit at the source in all matters pertaining to the CAIR SOTrading Program, notwithstanding any agreement between the CAIR designated representative and such owners and operators. The owners and operators shall be bound by any decision or order issued to the CAIR designated representative by the permitting authority, the Administrator, or a court regarding the source or unit.

(d) No CAIR permit will be issued, no emissions data reports will be accepted, and no CAIR SOAllowance Tracking System account will be established for a CAIR SOunit at a source, until the Administrator has received a complete certificate of representation under § 97.213 for a CAIR designated representative of the source and the CAIR SOunits at the source.

(e)(1) Each submission under the CAIR SOTrading Program shall be submitted, signed, and certified by the CAIR designated representative for each CAIR SOsource on behalf of which the submission is made. Each such submission shall include the following certification statement by the CAIR designated representative: "I am authorized to make this submission on behalf of the owners and operators of the source or units for which the submission is made. I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined, and am familiar with, the statements and information submitted in this document and all its attachments. Based on my inquiry of those individuals with primary responsibility for obtaining the information, I certify that the statements and information are to the best of my knowledge and belief true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false statements and information or omitting required statements and information, including the possibility of fine or imprisonment."

(2) The permitting authority and the Administrator will accept or act on a submission made on behalf of owner or operators of a CAIR SOsource or a CAIR SOunit only if the submission has been made, signed, and certified in accordance with paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
