
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.275 Petitions.
####### § 97.306 Standard requirements.
######## Nitrogen oxides ozone season emission requirements.

(c)(1) As of the allowance transfer deadline for a control period, the owners and operators of each CAIR NOOzone Season source and each CAIR NOOzone Season unit at the source shall hold, in the source's compliance account, CAIR NOOzone Season allowances available for compliance deductions for the control period under § 97.354(a) in an amount not less than the tons of total nitrogen oxides emissions for the control period from all CAIR NOOzone Season units at the source, as determined in accordance with subpart HHHH of this part.

(2) A CAIR NOOzone Season unit shall be subject to the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section for the control period starting on the later of May 1, 2009 or the deadline for meeting the unit's monitor certification requirements under § 97.370(b)(1), (2), (3), or (7) and for each control period thereafter.

(3) A CAIR NOOzone Season allowance shall not be deducted, for compliance with the requirements under paragraph (c)(1) of this section, for a control period in a calendar year before the year for which the CAIR NOOzone Season allowance was allocated.

(4) CAIR NOOzone Season allowances shall be held in, deducted from, or transferred into or among CAIR NOOzone Season Allowance Tracking System accounts in accordance with subparts EEEE, FFFF, GGGG, and IIII of this part.

(5) A CAIR NOOzone Season allowance is a limited authorization to emit one ton of nitrogen oxides in accordance with the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program. No provision of the CAIR NOOzone Season Trading Program, the CAIR permit application, the CAIR permit, or an exemption under § 97.305 and no provision of law shall be construed to limit the authority of the United States to terminate or limit such authorization.

(6) A CAIR NOOzone Season allowance does not constitute a property right.

(7) Upon recordation by the Administrator under subpart EEEE, FFFF, GGGG, or IIII of this part, every allocation, transfer, or deduction of a CAIR NOOzone Season allowance to or from a CAIR NOOzone Season source's compliance account is incorporated automatically in any CAIR permit of the source.
