
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart DDDD [Reserved]
####### § 97.340 State trading budgets.
############### § 97.341 Timing requirements for CAIR NOOzone Season allowance allocations.

(a) The Administrator will determine by order the CAIR NOOzone Season allowance allocations, in accordance with § 97.342(a) and (b), for the control periods in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014.

(b) By July 31, 2011 and July 31 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will determine by order the CAIR NOOzone Season allowance allocations, in accordance with § 97.342(a) and (b), for the control period in the fourth year after the year of the applicable deadline for determination under this paragraph.

(c) By April 30, 2009 and April 30 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will determine by order the CAIR NOOzone Season allowance allocations, in accordance with § 97.342(a), (c), and (d), for the control period in the year of the applicable deadline for determination under this paragraph.

(d) The Administrator will make available to the public each determination of CAIR NOOzone Season allowances under paragraph (a), (b), or (c) of this section and will provide an opportunity for submission of objections to the determination. Objections shall be limited to addressing whether the determination is in accordance with § 97.342. Based on any such objections, the Administrator will adjust each determination to the extent necessary to ensure that it is in accordance with § 97.342.
