
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HHHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### ยง 97.375 Petitions.
####### ยง 97.434 Recordkeeping and reporting.
######## Quarterly reports.

(d)The designated representative shall submit quarterly reports, as follows:

(1) The designated representative shall report the NOmass emissions data and heat input data for a CSAPR NOAnnual unit, in an electronic quarterly report in a format prescribed by the Administrator, for each calendar quarter beginning with the later of:

(i) The calendar quarter covering January 1, 2015 through March 31, 2015; or

(ii) The calendar quarter corresponding to the earlier of the date of provisional certification or the applicable deadline for initial certification under ยง 97.430(b).

(2) The designated representative shall submit each quarterly report to the Administrator within 30 days after the end of the calendar quarter covered by the report. Quarterly reports shall be submitted in the manner specified in ยง 75.73(f) of this chapter.

(3) For CSAPR NOAnnual units that are also subject to the Acid Rain Program, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 Trading Program, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 2 Trading Program, CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 Trading Program, CSAPR SOGroup 1 Trading Program, or CSAPR SOGroup 2 Trading Program, quarterly reports shall include the applicable data and information required by subparts F through H of part 75 of this chapter as applicable, in addition to the NOmass emission data, heat input data, and other information required by this subpart.

(4) The Administrator may review and conduct independent audits of any quarterly report in order to determine whether the quarterly report meets the requirements of this subpart and part 75 of this chapter, including the requirement to use substitute data.

(i) The Administrator will notify the designated representative of any determination that the quarterly report fails to meet any such requirements and specify in such notification any corrections that the Administrator believes are necessary to make through resubmission of the quarterly report and a reasonable time period within which the designated representative must respond. Upon request by the designated representative, the Administrator may specify reasonable extensions of such time period. Within the time period (including any such extensions) specified by the Administrator, the designated representative shall resubmit the quarterly report with the corrections specified by the Administrator, except to the extent the designated representative provides information demonstrating that a specified correction is not necessary because the quarterly report already meets the requirements of this subpart and part 75 of this chapter that are relevant to the specified correction.

(ii) Any resubmission of a quarterly report shall meet the requirements applicable to the submission of a quarterly report under this subpart and part 75 of this chapter, except for the deadline set forth in paragraph (d)(2) of this section.
