
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HHHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.375 Petitions.
####### § 97.506 Standard requirements.
######## Additional recordkeeping and reporting requirements.

(e)(1) Unless otherwise provided, the owners and operators of each CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 source and each CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 unit at the source shall keep on site at the source each of the following documents (in hardcopy or electronic format) for a period of 5 years from the date the document is created. This period may be extended for cause, at any time before the end of 5 years, in writing by the Administrator.

(i) The certificate of representation under § 97.516 for the designated representative for the source and each CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 unit at the source and all documents that demonstrate the truth of the statements in the certificate of representation; provided that the certificate and documents shall be retained on site at the source beyond such 5-year period until such certificate of representation and documents are superseded because of the submission of a new certificate of representation under § 97.516 changing the designated representative.

(ii) All emissions monitoring information, in accordance with this subpart.

(iii) Copies of all reports, compliance certifications, and other submissions and all records made or required under, or to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of, the CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 Trading Program.

(2) The designated representative of a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 source and each CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 unit at the source shall make all submissions required under the CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 1 Trading Program, except as provided in § 97.518. This requirement does not change, create an exemption from, or otherwise affect the responsible official submission requirements under a title V operating permit program in parts 70 and 71 of this chapter.
