
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Review of New Sources and Modifications
###### ยง 51.161 Public availability of information.

(a) The legally enforceable procedures in ยง 51.160 must also require the State or local agency to provide opportunity for public comment on information submitted by owners and operators. The public information must include the agency's analysis of the effect of construction or modification on ambient air quality, including the agency's proposed approval or disapproval.

(b) For purposes of paragraph (a) of this section, opportunity for public comment shall include, as a minimum-

(1) Availability for public inspection in at least one location in the area affected of the information submitted by the owner or operator and of the State or local agency's analysis of the effect on air quality. This requirement may be met by making these materials available at a physical location or on a public Web site identified by the State or local agency;

(2) A 30-day period for submittal of public comment; and

(3) A notice by prominent advertisement in the area affected of the location of the source information and analysis specified in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(c) Where the 30-day comment period required in paragraph (b) of this section would conflict with existing requirements for acting on requests for permission to construct or modify, the State may submit for approval a comment period which is consistent with such existing requirements.

(d) A copy of the notice required by paragraph (b) of this section must also be sent to the Administrator through the appropriate Regional Office, and to all other State and local air pollution control agencies having jurisdiction in the region in which such new or modified installation will be located. The notice also must be sent to any other agency in the region having responsibility for implementing the procedures required under this subpart. For lead, a copy of the notice is required for all point sources. The definition of point for lead is given in ยง 51.100(k)(2).
