
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HHHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### ยง 97.375 Petitions.
####### ยง 97.1009 [Reserved]
######### Existing units.

(a)(1) CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances are allocated, for the control periods in 2021 and each year thereafter, as provided in a notice of data availability issued by the Administrator. Providing an allocation to a unit in such notice does not constitute a determination that the unit is a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 unit, and not providing an allocation to a unit in such notice does not constitute a determination that the unit is not a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 unit. For the control period in 2021, a unit's allocation under this paragraph will include the unit's share (if any) of the supplemental amount of CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances determined for the State in which the unit is located under ยง 97.1010(d).

(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (a)(1) of this section, if a unit provided an allocation in the notice of data availability issued under paragraph (a)(1) of this section does not operate, starting after 2020, during the control period in two consecutive years, such unit will not be allocated the CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances provided in such notice for the unit for the control periods in the fifth year after the first such year and in each year after that fifth year. All CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances that would otherwise have been allocated to such unit will be allocated to the new unit set-aside for the State where such unit is located and for the respective years involved. If such unit resumes operation, the Administrator will allocate CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances to the unit in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section.
