
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HHHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.375 Petitions.
####### § 97.1009 [Reserved]
######### Indian country new unit set-asides.

(2)(i) By March 1, 2022 and March 1 of each year thereafter, the Administrator will calculate the CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance allocation to each CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 unit in Indian country within the borders of a State, in accordance with § 97.1012(b)(2) through (7), (10), and (12) and §§ 97.1006(b)(2) and 97.1030 through 97.1035, for the control period in the year before the year of the applicable calculation deadline under this paragraph and will promulgate a notice of data availability of the results of the calculations.

(ii) For each notice of data availability required in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Administrator will provide an opportunity for submission of objections to the calculations referenced in such notice.

(A) Objections shall be submitted by the deadline specified in each notice of data availability required in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section and shall be limited to addressing whether the calculations (including the identification of the CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 units) are in accordance with the provisions referenced in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section.

(B) The Administrator will adjust the calculations to the extent necessary to ensure that they are in accordance with the provisions referenced in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section. By May 1 immediately after the promulgation of each notice of data availability required in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section, the Administrator will promulgate a notice of data availability of the results of the calculations incorporating any adjustments that the Administrator determines to be necessary and the reasons for accepting or rejecting any objections submitted in accordance with paragraph (b)(2)(ii)(A) of this section.

(iii) [Reserved]

(iv) [Reserved]

(v) To the extent any CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances are added to the Indian country new unit set-aside after promulgation of each notice of data availability required in paragraph (b)(2)(ii) of this section, the Administrator will promulgate additional notices of data availability, as deemed appropriate, of the allocation of such CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances in accordance with § 97.1012(b)(10).
