
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 97 - FEDERAL NOX BUDGET TRADING PROGRAM, CAIR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, CSAPR NOX AND SO2 TRADING PROGRAMS, AND TEXAS SO2 TRADING PROGRAM
##### Subpart HHHH - Monitoring and Reporting
###### § 97.375 Petitions.
####### § 97.1020 Establishment of compliance accounts, assurance accounts, and general accounts.
######## Responsibilities of authorized account representative and alternate authorized account representative.
############### § 97.1023 Recordation of CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfers.

(a) Within 5 business days (except as provided in paragraph (b) of this section) of receiving a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfer that is correctly submitted under § 97.1022, the Administrator will record a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfer by moving each CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance from the transferor account to the transferee account as specified in the transfer.

(b) A CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfer to or from a compliance account that is submitted for recordation after the allowance transfer deadline for a control period and that includes any CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowances allocated or auctioned for any control period before such allowance transfer deadline will not be recorded until after the Administrator completes the deductions from such compliance account under § 97.1024 for the control period immediately before such allowance transfer deadline.

(c) Where a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfer is not correctly submitted under § 97.1022, the Administrator will not record such transfer.

(d) Within 5 business days of recordation of a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfer under paragraphs (a) and (b) of the section, the Administrator will notify the authorized account representatives of both the transferor and transferee accounts.

(e) Within 10 business days of receipt of a CSAPR NOOzone Season Group 3 allowance transfer that is not correctly submitted under § 97.1022, the Administrator will notify the authorized account representatives of both accounts subject to the transfer of:

(1) A decision not to record the transfer; and

(2) The reasons for such non-recordation.
