
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### § 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### Content of the annual report.

(c)Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, each annual GHG report shall contain the following information:

(1) Facility name or supplier name (as appropriate), and physical street address of the facility or supplier, including the city, State, and zip code. If the facility does not have a physical street address, then the facility must provide the latitude and longitude representing the geographic centroid or center point of facility operations in decimal degree format. This must be provided in a comma-delimited "latitude, longitude" coordinate pair reported in decimal degrees to at least four digits to the right of the decimal point.

(2) Year and months covered by the report.

(3) Date of submittal.

(4) For facilities, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (c)(12) of this section, report annual emissions of CO, CH, NO, each fluorinated GHG (as defined in § 98.6), and each fluorinated heat transfer fluid (as defined in § 98.98) as follows.

(i) Annual emissions (excluding biogenic CO) aggregated for all GHG from all applicable source categories, expressed in metric tons of COe calculated using Equation A-1 of this subpart. For electronics manufacturing (as defined in § 98.90), starting in reporting year 2012 the COe calculation must include each fluorinated heat transfer fluid (as defined in § 98.98) whether or not it is also a fluorinated GHG.

(ii) Annual emissions of biogenic COaggregated for all applicable source categories, expressed in metric tons.

(iii) Annual emissions from each applicable source category, expressed in metric tons of each applicable GHG listed in paragraphs (c)(4)(iii)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) Biogenic CO.

(B) CO(excluding biogenic CO).

(C) CH.

(D) NO.

(E) Each fluorinated GHG (as defined in § 98.6), except fluorinated gas production facilities must comply with § 98.126(a) rather than this paragraph (c)(4)(iii)(E). If a fluorinated GHG does not have a chemical-specific GWP in Table A-1 of this subpart, identify and report the fluorinated GHG group of which that fluorinated GHG is a member.

(F) For electronics manufacturing (as defined in § 98.90), each fluorinated heat transfer fluid (as defined in § 98.98) that is not also a fluorinated GHG as specified under (c)(4)(iii)(E) of this section. If a fluorinated heat transfer fluid does not have a chemical-specific GWP in Table A-1 of this subpart, identify and report the fluorinated GHG group of which that fluorinated heat transfer fluid is a member.

(G) For each reported fluorinated GHG and fluorinated heat transfer fluid, report the following identifying information:
