
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### Schedule.

(b)The annual GHG report for reporting year 2010 must be submitted no later than September 30, 2011. The annual report for reporting years 2011 and beyond must be submitted no later than March 31 of each calendar year for GHG emissions in the previous calendar year, except as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(1) For reporting year 2011, facilities with one or more of the subparts listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(xi) of this section and suppliers listed in paragraph (b)(1)(xii) of this section are required to submit their annual GHG report no later than September 28, 2012. Facilities and suppliers that are submitting their second annual GHG report in 2012 and that are reporting on one or more subparts listed in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(xii) of this section must notify EPA by March 31, 2012 that they are not required to submit their annual GHG report until September 28, 2012.

(i) Electronics Manufacturing (subpart I).

(ii) Fluorinated Gas Production (subpart L).

(iii) Magnesium Production (subpart T).

(iv) Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems (subpart W).

(v) Use of Electric Transmission and Distribution Equipment (subpart DD).

(vi) Underground Coal Mines (subpart FF).

(vii) Industrial Wastewater Treatment (subpart II).

(viii) Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide (subpart RR).

(ix) Manufacture of Electric Transmission and Distribution (subpart SS).

(x) Industrial Waste Landfills (subpart TT).

(xi) Injection of Carbon Dioxide (subpart UU).

(xii) Imports and Exports of Equipment Pre-charged with Fluorinated GHGs or Containing Fluorinated GHGs in Closed-cell Foams (subpart QQ).

(2) For a new facility or supplier that begins operation on or after January 1, 2010 and becomes subject to the rule in the year that it becomes operational, report emissions beginning with the first operating month and ending on December 31 of that year. Each subsequent annual report must cover emissions for the calendar year, beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.

(3) For any facility or supplier that becomes subject to this rule because of a physical or operational change that is made after January 1, 2010, report emissions for the first calendar year in which the change occurs, beginning with the first month of the change and ending on December 31 of that year. For a facility or supplier that becomes subject to this rule solely because of an increase in hours of operation or level of production, the first month of the change is the month in which the increased hours of operation or level of production, if maintained for the remainder of the year, would cause the facility or supplier to exceed the applicable threshold. Each subsequent annual report must cover emissions for the calendar year, beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31.

(4) Unless otherwise stated, if the final day of any time period falls on a weekend or a federal holiday, the time period shall be extended to the next business day.
