
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### 3

() Linear chemical formula.

(iv) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(vii) of this section, emissions and other data for individual units, processes, activities, and operations as specified in the "Data reporting requirements" section of each applicable subpart of this part.

(v) Indicate (yes or no) whether reported emissions include emissions from a cogeneration unit located at the facility.

(vi) [Reserved]

(vii) The owner or operator of a facility is not required to report the data elements specified in Table A-6 of this subpart for calendar years 2010 through 2011 until March 31, 2013. The owner or operator of a facility is not required to report the data elements specified in Table A-7 of this subpart for calendar years 2010 through 2013 until March 31, 2015 (as part of the annual report for reporting year 2014), except as otherwise specified in Table A-7 of this subpart.

(viii) Applicable source categories means stationary fuel combustion sources (subpart C of this part), miscellaneous use of carbonates (subpart U of this part), and all of the source categories listed in Table A-3 and Table A-4 of this subpart present at the facility.

(5) For suppliers, report annual quantities of CO, CH, NO, and each fluorinated GHG (as defined in ยง 98.6) that would be emitted from combustion or use of the products supplied, imported, and exported during the year. Calculate and report quantities at the following levels:

(i) Total quantity of GHG aggregated for all GHG from all applicable supply categories in Table A-5 of this subpart and expressed in metric tons of COe calculated using Equation A-1 of this subpart.

(ii) Quantity of each GHG from each applicable supply category in Table A-5 to this subpart, expressed in metric tons of each GHG. For each reported fluorinated GHG, report the following identifying information:

(A) Chemical name. If the chemical is not listed in Table A-1 of this subpart, then use the method of naming organic chemical compounds as recommended by the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC).

(B) The CAS registry number assigned by the Chemical Abstracts Registry Service. If a CAS registry number is not assigned or is not associated with a single fluorinated GHG, then report an identification number assigned by EPA's Substance Registry Services.

(C) Linear chemical formula.

(iii) Any other data specified in the "Data reporting requirements" section of each applicable subpart of this part.

(6) A written explanation, as required under ยง 98.3(e), if you change emission calculation methodologies during the reporting period.

(7) A brief description of each "best available monitoring method" used, the parameter measured using the method, and the time period during which the "best available monitoring method" was used, if applicable.

(8) Each parameter for which a missing data procedure was used according to the procedures of an applicable subpart and the total number of hours in the year that a missing data procedure was used for each parameter. Parameters include not only reported data elements, but any data element required for monitoring and calculating emissions.

(9) A signed and dated certification statement provided by the designated representative of the owner or operator, according to the requirements of ยง 98.4(e)(1).

(10) NAICS code(s) that apply to the facility or supplier.
