
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### i.e.

(12) For the 2010 reporting year only, facilities that have "part 75 units" (units that are subject to subpart D of this part or units that use the methods in part 75 of this chapter to quantify COmass emissions in accordance with ยง 98.33(a)(5)) must report annual GHG emissions either in full accordance with paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (c)(4)(iii) of this section or in full accordance with paragraphs (c)(12)(i) through (c)(12)(iii) of this section. If the latter reporting option is chosen, you must report:

(i) Annual emissions aggregated for all GHG from all applicable source categories, expressed in metric tons of COe calculated using Equation A-1 of this subpart. You must include biogenic COemissions from part 75 units in these annual emissions, but exclude biogenic COemissions from any non-part 75 units and other source categories.

(ii) Annual emissions of biogenic CO, expressed in metric tons (excluding biogenic COemissions from part 75 units), aggregated for all applicable source categories.

(iii) Annual emissions from each applicable source category, expressed in metric tons of each applicable GHG listed in paragraphs (c)(12)(iii)(A) through (c)(12)(iii)(E) of this section.

(A) Biogenic CO(excluding biogenic COemissions from part 75 units).

(B) CO. You must include biogenic COemissions from part 75 units in these totals and exclude biogenic COemissions from other non-part 75 units and other source categories.

(C) CH.

(D) NO.

(E) Each fluorinated GHG (including those not listed in Table A-1 of this subpart).

(13) An indication of whether the facility includes one or more plant sites that have been assigned a "plant code" (as defined under ยง 98.6) by either the Department of Energy's Energy Information Administration or by the EPA's Clean Air Markets Division.
