
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### Special provisions for reporting year 2010.,Best available monitoring methods.

(d)(1)During January 1, 2010 through March 31, 2010, owners or operators may use best available monitoring methods for any parameter (e.g., fuel use, daily carbon content of feedstock by process line) that cannot reasonably be measured according to the monitoring and QA/QC requirements of a relevant subpart. The owner or operator must use the calculation methodologies and equations in the "Calculating GHG Emissions" sections of each relevant subpart, but may use the best available monitoring method for any parameter for which it is not reasonably feasible to acquire, install, and operate a required piece of monitoring equipment by January 1, 2010. Starting no later than April 1, 2010, the owner or operator must discontinue using best available methods and begin following all applicable monitoring and QA/QC requirements of this part, except as provided in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section. Best available monitoring methods means any of the following methods specified in this paragraph:

(i) Monitoring methods currently used by the facility that do not meet the specifications of a relevant subpart.

(ii) Supplier data.

(iii) Engineering calculations.

(iv) Other company records.
