
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### e.g.,

(1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(6) of this section, flow meters that measure liquid and gaseous fuel feed rates, process stream flow rates, or feedstock flow rates and provide data for the GHG emissions calculations shall be calibrated prior to April 1, 2010 using the procedures specified in this paragraph (i) when such calibration is specified in a relevant subpart of this part. Each of these flow meters shall meet the applicable accuracy specification in paragraph (i)(2) or (i)(3) of this section. All other measurement devices (weighing devices) that are required by a relevant subpart of this part, and that are used to provide data for the GHG emissions calculations, shall also be calibrated prior to April 1, 2010; however, the accuracy specifications in paragraphs (i)(2) and (i)(3) of this section do not apply to these devices. Rather, each of these measurement devices shall be calibrated to meet the accuracy requirement specified for the device in the applicable subpart of this part, or, in the absence of such accuracy requirement, the device must be calibrated to an accuracy within the appropriate error range for the specific measurement technology, based on an applicable operating standard, including but not limited to manufacturer's specifications and industry standards. The procedures and methods used to quality-assure the data from each measurement device shall be documented in the written monitoring plan, pursuant to paragraph (g)(5)(i)(C) of this section.

(i) All flow meters and other measurement devices that are subject to the provisions of this paragraph (i) must be calibrated according to one of the following: You may use the manufacturer's recommended procedures; an appropriate industry consensus standard method; or a method specified in a relevant subpart of this part. The calibration method(s) used shall be documented in the monitoring plan required under paragraph (g) of this section.

(ii) For facilities and suppliers that become subject to this part after April 1, 2010, all flow meters and other measurement devices (if any) that are required by the relevant subpart(s) of this part to provide data for the GHG emissions calculations shall be installed no later than the date on which data collection is required to begin using the measurement device, and the initial calibration(s) required by this paragraph (i) (if any) shall be performed no later than that date.

(iii) Except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (i)(4) through (i)(6) of this section, subsequent recalibrations of the flow meters and other measurement devices subject to the requirements of this paragraph (i) shall be performed at one of the following frequencies:

(A) You may use the frequency specified in each applicable subpart of this part.

(B) You may use the frequency recommended by the manufacturer or by an industry consensus standard practice, if no recalibration frequency is specified in an applicable subpart.
