
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### § 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### Abbreviated emissions report for facilities containing only general stationary fuel combustion sources.

(3)In lieu of the report required by paragraph (c) of this section, the owner or operator of an existing facility that is in operation on January 1, 2010 and that meets the conditions of § 98.2(a)(3) may submit an abbreviated GHG report for the facility for GHGs emitted in 2010. The abbreviated report must be submitted by September 30, 2011. An owner or operator that submits an abbreviated report must submit a full GHG report according to the requirements of paragraph (c) of this section beginning in calendar year 2012. The abbreviated facility report must include the following information:

(i) Facility name and physical street address including the city, state and zip code.

(ii) The year and months covered by the report.

(iii) Date of submittal.

(iv) Total facility GHG emissions aggregated for all stationary fuel combustion units calculated according to any method specified in § 98.33(a) and expressed in metric tons of CO, CH, NO, and COe.

(v) For each stationary fuel combustion source that meets the criteria specified in § 98.36(f), report any facility operating data or process information used for the GHG emission calculations. A stationary fuel combustion source that does not meet the criteria specified in § 98.36(f) must either report the data specified in this paragraph (d)(3)(v) in the annual report or use verification software according to § 98.5(b) in lieu of reporting the data specified in this paragraph.

(vi) A signed and dated certification statement provided by the designated representative of the owner or operator, according to the requirements of paragraph (e)(1) of this section.
