
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### § 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### Recordkeeping.

(g)An owner or operator that is required to report GHGs under this part must keep records as specified in this paragraph (g). Except as otherwise provided in this paragraph, retain all required records for at least 3 years from the date of submission of the annual GHG report for the reporting year in which the record was generated. The records shall be kept in an electronic or hard-copy format (as appropriate) and recorded in a form that is suitable for expeditious inspection and review. If the owner or operator of a facility is required under § 98.5(b) to use verification software specified by the Administrator, then all records required for the facility under this part must be retained for at least 5 years from the date of submission of the annual GHG report for the reporting year in which the record was generated, starting with records for reporting year 2010. Upon request by the Administrator, the records required under this section must be made available to EPA. Records may be retained off site if the records are readily available for expeditious inspection and review. For records that are electronically generated or maintained, the equipment or software necessary to read the records shall be made available, or, if requested by EPA, electronic records shall be converted to paper documents. You must retain the following records, in addition to those records prescribed in each applicable subpart of this part:

(1) A list of all units, operations, processes, and activities for which GHG emission were calculated.

(2) The data used to calculate the GHG emissions for each unit, operation, process, and activity, categorized by fuel or material type. These data include but are not limited to the following information in this paragraph (g)(2):

(i) The GHG emissions calculations and methods used. For data required by § 98.5(b) to be entered into verification software specified in § 98.5(b), maintain the entered data in the format generated by the verification software according to § 98.5(b).

(ii) Analytical results for the development of site-specific emissions factors.

(iii) The results of all required analyses for high heat value, carbon content, and other required fuel or feedstock parameters.

(iv) Any facility operating data or process information used for the GHG emission calculations.

(3) The annual GHG reports.

(4) Missing data computations. For each missing data event, also retain a record of the cause of the event and the corrective actions taken to restore malfunctioning monitoring equipment.

(5) A written GHG Monitoring Plan.

(i) At a minimum, the GHG Monitoring Plan shall include the elements listed in this paragraph (g)(5)(i).

(A) Identification of positions of responsibility (i.e., job titles) for collection of the emissions data.

(B) Explanation of the processes and methods used to collect the necessary data for the GHG calculations.

(C) Description of the procedures and methods that are used for quality assurance, maintenance, and repair of all continuous monitoring systems, flow meters, and other instrumentation used to provide data for the GHGs reported under this part.

(ii) The GHG Monitoring Plan may rely on references to existing corporate documents (e.g., standard operating procedures, quality assurance programs under appendix F to 40 CFR part 60 or appendix B to 40 CFR part 75, and other documents) provided that the elements required by paragraph (g)(5)(i) of this section are easily recognizable.

(iii) The owner or operator shall revise the GHG Monitoring Plan as needed to reflect changes in production processes, monitoring instrumentation, and quality assurance procedures; or to improve procedures for the maintenance and repair of monitoring systems to reduce the frequency of monitoring equipment downtime.

(iv) Upon request by the Administrator, the owner or operator shall make all information that is collected in conformance with the GHG Monitoring Plan available for review during an audit. Electronic storage of the information in the plan is permissible, provided that the information can be made available in hard copy upon request during an audit.

(6) The results of all required certification and quality assurance tests of continuous monitoring systems, fuel flow meters, and other instrumentation used to provide data for the GHGs reported under this part.

(7) Maintenance records for all continuous monitoring systems, flow meters, and other instrumentation used to provide data for the GHGs reported under this part.
