
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### i.e.,

(5) For a flow meter that has been previously calibrated in accordance with paragraph (i)(1) of this section, an additional calibration is not required by the date specified in paragraph (i)(1) of this section if, as of that date, the previous calibration is still active (the device is not yet due for recalibration because the time interval between successive calibrations has not elapsed). In this case, the deadline for the successive calibrations of the flow meter shall be set according to one of the following. You may use either the manufacturer's recommended calibration schedule or you may use the industry consensus calibration schedule.

(6) For units and processes that operate continuously with infrequent outages, it may not be possible to meet the April 1, 2010 deadline for the initial calibration of a flow meter or other measurement device without disrupting normal process operation. In such cases, the owner or operator may postpone the initial calibration until the next scheduled maintenance outage. The best available information from company records may be used in the interim. The subsequent required recalibrations of the flow meters may be similarly postponed. Such postponements shall be documented in the monitoring plan that is required under paragraph (g)(5) of this section.

(7) If the results of an initial calibration or a recalibration fail to meet the required accuracy specification, data from the flow meter shall be considered invalid, beginning with the hour of the failed calibration and continuing until a successful calibration is completed. You shall follow the missing data provisions provided in the relevant missing data sections during the period of data invalidation.
