
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.3 What are the general monitoring, reporting, recordkeeping and verification requirements of this part?
####### Content of the request.

(4)Requests must contain the following information:

(i) Specific measurement device for which the request is being made and the location where each measurement device will be installed.

(ii) Identification of the specific rule requirements (by rule subpart, section, and paragraph numbers) requiring the measurement device.

(iii) A description of the reasons why the needed equipment could not be installed before April 1, 2010, or by the expiration date for the use of best available monitoring methods, in cases where an extension has been granted under ยง 98.3(d).

(iv) Supporting documentation showing that it is not practicable to isolate the process equipment or unit and install the measurement device without a full shutdown or a hot tap, and that there was no opportunity during 2010 to install the device. Include the date of the three most recent shutdowns for each relevant process equipment or unit, the frequency of shutdowns for each relevant process equipment or unit, and the date of the next planned process equipment or unit shutdown.

(v) Include a description of the proposed best available monitoring method for estimating GHG emissions during the time prior to installation of the meter.
