
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General Provision
###### ยง 98.4 Authorization and responsibilities of the designated representative.
####### Alternate designated representative.

(f)A certificate of representation under this section for a facility or supplier may designate one alternate designated representative, who shall be an individual selected by an agreement binding on the owners and operators, and may act on behalf of the designated representative, of such facility or supplier. The agreement by which the alternate designated representative is selected shall include a procedure for authorizing the alternate designated representative to act in lieu of the designated representative.

(1) Upon receipt by the Administrator of a complete certificate of representation under this section for a facility or supplier identifying an alternate designated representative.

(i) The alternate designated representative may act on behalf of the designated representative for such facility or supplier.

(ii) Any representation, action, inaction, or submission by the alternate designated representative shall be deemed to be a representation, action, inaction, or submission by the designated representative.

(2) Except in this section, whenever the term "designated representative" is used in this part, the term shall be construed to include the designated representative or any alternate designated representative.
