
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.30 Definition of the source category.

(a) Stationary fuel combustion sources are devices that combust solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel, generally for the purposes of producing electricity, generating steam, or providing useful heat or energy for industrial, commercial, or institutional use, or reducing the volume of waste by removing combustible matter. Stationary fuel combustion sources include, but are not limited to, boilers, simple and combined-cycle combustion turbines, engines, incinerators, and process heaters.

(b) This source category does not include:

(1) Portable equipment, as defined in ยง 98.6.

(2) Emergency generators and emergency equipment, as defined in ยง 98.6.

(3) Irrigation pumps at agricultural operations.

(4) Flares, unless otherwise required by provisions of another subpart of this part to use methodologies in this subpart.

(5) Electricity generating units that are subject to subpart D of this part.

(c) For a unit that combusts hazardous waste (as defined in ยง 261.3 of this chapter), reporting of GHG emissions is not required unless either of the following conditions apply:

(1) Continuous emission monitors (CEMS) are used to quantify COmass emissions.

(2) Any fuel listed in Table C-1 of this subpart is also combusted in the unit. In this case, report GHG emissions from combustion of all fuels listed in Table C-1 of this subpart.

(d) You are not required to report GHG emissions from pilot lights. A pilot light is a small auxiliary flame that ignites the burner of a combustion device when the control valve opens.
