
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### e.g.,

(ii) The minimum required sampling frequency for determining the annual average HHV (monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, or by lot) is specified in ยง 98.34. The method for computing the annual average HHV is a function of unit size and how frequently you perform or receive from the fuel supplier the results of fuel sampling for HHV. The method is specified in paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) or (a)(2)(ii)(B) of this section, as applicable.

(A) If the results of fuel sampling are received monthly or more frequently, then for each unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than or equal to 100 mmBtu/hr (or for a group of units that includes at least one unit of that size), the annual average HHV shall be calculated using Equation C-2b of this section. If multiple HHV determinations are made in any month, average the values for the month arithmetically.

(B) If the results of fuel sampling are received less frequently than monthly, or, for a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity less than 100 mmBtu/hr (or a group of such units) regardless of the HHV sampling frequency, the annual average HHV shall either be computed according to paragraph (a)(2)(ii)(A) of this section or as the arithmetic average HHV for all values for the year (including valid samples and substitute data values under ยง 98.35).

(iii) For units that combust municipal solid waste (MSW) and that produce steam, use Equation C-2c of this section. Equation C-2c of this section may also be used for any other solid fuel listed in Table C-1 of this subpart provided that steam is generated by the unit.
