
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Tier 4 Calculation Methodology.

(4)Calculate the annual COmass emissions from all fuels combusted in a unit, by using quality-assured data from continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS).

(i) This methodology requires a COconcentration monitor and a stack gas volumetric flow rate monitor, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (a)(4)(iv) of this section. Hourly measurements of COconcentration and stack gas flow rate are converted to COmass emission rates in metric tons per hour.

(ii) When the COconcentration is measured on a wet basis, Equation C-6 of this section is used to calculate the hourly COemission rates:

(iii) If the COconcentration is measured on a dry basis, a correction for the stack gas moisture content is required. You shall either continuously monitor the stack gas moisture content using a method described in ยง 75.11(b)(2) of this chapter or use an appropriate default moisture percentage. For coal, wood, and natural gas combustion, you may use the default moisture values specified in ยง 75.11(b)(1) of this chapter. Alternatively, for any type of fuel, you may determine an appropriate site-specific default moisture value (or values), using measurements made with EPA Method 4-Determination Of Moisture Content In Stack Gases, in appendix A-3 to part 60 of this chapter. Moisture data from the relative accuracy test audit (RATA) of a CEMS may be used for this purpose. If this option is selected, the site-specific moisture default value(s) must represent the fuel(s) or fuel blends that are combusted in the unit during normal, stable operation, and must account for any distinct difference(s) in the stack gas moisture content associated with different process operating conditions. For each site-specific default moisture percentage, at least nine Method 4 runs are required, except where the option to use moisture data from a RATA is selected, and the applicable regulation allows a single moisture determination to represent two or more RATA runs. In that case, you may base the site-specific moisture percentage on the number of moisture runs allowed by the RATA regulation. Calculate each site-specific default moisture value by taking the arithmetic average of the Method 4 runs. Each site-specific moisture default value shall be updated whenever the owner or operator believes the current value is non-representative, due to changes in unit or process operation, but in any event no less frequently than annually. Use the updated moisture value in the subsequent COemissions calculations. For each unit operating hour, a moisture correction must be applied to Equation C-6 of this section as follows:
