
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Alternative methods for certain units subject to Part 75 of this chapter.

(5)Certain units that are not subject to subpart D of this part and that report data to EPA according to part 75 of this chapter may qualify to use the alternative methods in this paragraph (a)(5), in lieu of using any of the four calculation methodology tiers.

(i) For a unit that combusts only natural gas and/or fuel oil, is not subject to subpart D of this part, monitors and reports heat input data year-round according to appendix D to part 75 of this chapter, but is not required by the applicable part 75 program to report COmass emissions data, calculate the annual COmass emissions for the purposes of this part as follows:

(A) Use the hourly heat input data from appendix D to part 75 of this chapter, together with Equation G-4 in appendix G to part 75 of this chapter to determine the hourly COmass emission rates, in units of tons/hr;

(B) Use Equations F-12 and F-13 in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter to calculate the quarterly and cumulative annual COmass emissions, respectively, in units of short tons; and

(C) Divide the cumulative annual COmass emissions value by 1.1023 to convert it to metric tons.

(ii) For a unit that combusts only natural gas and/or fuel oil, is not subject to subpart D of this part, monitors and reports heat input data year-round according to ยง 75.19 of this chapter but is not required by the applicable part 75 program to report COmass emissions data, calculate the annual COmass emissions for the purposes of this part as follows:

(A) Calculate the hourly COmass emissions, in units of short tons, using Equation LM-11 in ยง 75.19(c)(4)(iii) of this chapter.

(B) Sum the hourly COmass emissions values over the entire reporting year to obtain the cumulative annual COmass emissions, in units of short tons.

(C) Divide the cumulative annual COmass emissions value by 1.1023 to convert it to metric tons.

(iii) For a unit that is not subject to subpart D of this part, uses flow rate and CO(or O) CEMS to report heat input data year-round according to part 75 of this chapter, but is not required by the applicable part 75 program to report COmass emissions data, calculate the annual COmass emissions as follows:

(A) Use Equation F-11 or F-2 (as applicable) in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter to calculate the hourly COmass emission rates from the CEMS data. If an Omonitor is used, convert the hourly average Oreadings to COusing Equation F-14a or F-14b in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter (as applicable), before applying Equation F-11 or F-2.

(B) Use Equations F-12 and F-13 in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter to calculate the quarterly and cumulative annual COmass emissions, respectively, in units of short tons.

(C) Divide the cumulative annual COmass emissions value by 1.1023 to convert it to metric tons.

(iv) For units that qualify to use the alternative COemissions calculation methods in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (a)(5)(iii) of this section, if both biomass and fossil fuel are combusted during the year, separate calculation and reporting of the biogenic COmass emissions (as described in paragraph (e) of this section) is optional, only for the 2010 reporting year, as provided in ยง 98.3(c)(12).
