
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### i.e.,

(iv) An oxygen (O) concentration monitor may be used in lieu of a COconcentration monitor to determine the hourly COconcentrations, in accordance with Equation F-14a or F-14b (as applicable) in appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, if the effluent gas stream monitored by the CEMS consists solely of combustion products (no process COemissions or COemissions from sorbent are mixed with the combustion products) and if only fuels that are listed in Table 1 in section 3.3.5 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter are combusted in the unit. If the Omonitoring option is selected, the F-factors used in Equations F-14a and F-14b shall be determined according to section 3.3.5 or section 3.3.6 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter, as applicable. If Equation F-14b is used, the hourly moisture percentage in the stack gas shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (a)(4)(iii) of this section.

(v) Each hourly COmass emission rate from Equation C-6 or C-7 of this section is multiplied by the operating time to convert it from metric tons per hour to metric tons. The operating time is the fraction of the hour during which fuel is combusted (e.g., the unit operating time is 1.0 if the unit operates for the whole hour and is 0.5 if the unit operates for 30 minutes in the hour). For common stack configurations, the operating time is the fraction of the hour during which effluent gases flow through the common stack.

(vi) The hourly COmass emissions are then summed over each calendar quarter and the quarterly totals are summed to determine the annual COmass emissions.

(vii) If both biomass and fossil fuel are combusted during the year, determine and report the biogenic COmass emissions separately, as described in paragraph (e) of this section.
