
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Use of the four tiers.

(b)Use of the four tiers of COemissions calculation methodologies described in paragraph (a) of this section is subject to the following conditions, requirements, and restrictions:

(1) The Tier 1 Calculation Methodology:

(i) May be used for any fuel listed in Table C-1 of this subpart that is combusted in a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity of 250 mmBtu/hr or less.

(ii) May be used for MSW in a unit of any size that does not produce steam, if the use of Tier 4 is not required.

(iii) May be used for solid, gaseous, or liquid biomass fuels in a unit of any size provided that the fuel is listed in Table C-1 of this subpart.

(iv) May not be used if you routinely perform fuel sampling and analysis for the fuel high heat value (HHV) or routinely receive the results of HHV sampling and analysis from the fuel supplier at the minimum frequency specified in § 98.34(a), or at a greater frequency. In such cases, Tier 2 shall be used. This restriction does not apply to paragraphs (b)(1)(ii), (b)(1)(v), (b)(1)(vi), and (b)(1)(vii) of this section.

(v) May be used for natural gas combustion in a unit of any size, in cases where the annual natural gas consumption is obtained from fuel billing records in units of therms or mmBtu.

(vi) May be used for MSW combustion in a small, batch incinerator that burns no more than 1,000 tons per year of MSW.

(vii) May be used for the combustion of MSW and/or tires in a unit, provided that no more than 10 percent of the unit's annual heat input is derived from those fuels, combined. Notwithstanding this requirement, if a unit combusts both MSW and tires and the reporter elects not to separately calculate and report biogenic COemissions from the combustion of tires, Tier 1 may be used for the MSW combustion, provided that no more than 10 percent of the unit's annual heat input is derived from MSW.

(viii) May be used for the combustion of a fuel listed in Table C-1 if the fuel is combusted in a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr (or, pursuant to § 98.36(c)(3), in a group of units served by a common supply pipe, having at least one unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr), provided that both of the following conditions apply:

(A) The use of Tier 4 is not required.

(B) The fuel provides less than 10 percent of the annual heat input to the unit, or if § 98.36(c)(3) applies, to the group of units served by a common supply pipe.

(2) The Tier 2 Calculation Methodology:

(i) May be used for the combustion of any type of fuel in a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity of 250 mmBtu/hr or less provided that the fuel is listed in Table C-1 of this subpart.

(ii) May be used in a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr for the combustion of natural gas and/or distillate fuel oil.

(iii) May be used for MSW in a unit of any size that produces steam, if the use of Tier 4 is not required.

(3) The Tier 3 Calculation Methodology:

(i) May be used for a unit of any size that combusts any type of fuel listed in Table C-1 of this subpart (except for MSW), unless the use of Tier 4 is required.

(ii) Shall be used for a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr that combusts any type of fuel listed in Table C-1 of this subpart (except MSW), unless either of the following conditions apply:

(A) The use of Tier 1 or 2 is permitted, as described in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii), (b)(1)(v), (b)(1)(viii), and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) The use of Tier 4 is required.

(iii) Shall be used for a fuel not listed in Table C-1 of this subpart if the fuel is combusted in a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr (or, pursuant to § 98.36(c)(3), in a group of units served by a common supply pipe, having at least one unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr), provided that both of the following conditions apply:

(A) The use of Tier 4 is not required.

(B) The fuel provides 10% or more of the annual heat input to the unit or, if § 98.36(c)(3) applies, to the group of units served by a common supply pipe.

(iv) Shall be used when specified in another applicable subpart of this part, regardless of unit size.

(4) The Tier 4 Calculation Methodology:

(i) May be used for a unit of any size, combusting any type of fuel. Tier 4 may also be used for any group of stationary fuel combustion units, process units, or manufacturing units that share a common stack or duct.

(ii) Shall be used if the unit meets all six of the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(A) through (b)(4)(ii)(F) of this section:

(A) The unit has a maximum rated heat input capacity greater than 250 mmBtu/hr, or if the unit combusts municipal solid waste and has a maximum rated input capacity greater than 600 tons per day of MSW.

(B) The unit combusts solid fossil fuel or MSW as the primary fuel.

(C) The unit has operated for more than 1,000 hours in any calendar year since 2005.

(D) The unit has installed CEMS that are required either by an applicable Federal or State regulation or the unit's operating permit.

(E) The installed CEMS include a gas monitor of any kind or a stack gas volumetric flow rate monitor, or both and the monitors have been certified, either in accordance with the requirements of part 75 of this chapter, part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable State continuous monitoring program.

(F) The installed gas or stack gas volumetric flow rate monitors are required, either by an applicable Federal or State regulation or by the unit's operating permit, to undergo periodic quality assurance testing in accordance with either appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, appendix F to part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable State continuous monitoring program.

(iii) Shall be used for a unit with a maximum rated heat input capacity of 250 mmBtu/hr or less and for a unit that combusts municipal solid waste with a maximum rated input capacity of 600 tons of MSW per day or less, if the unit meets all of the following three conditions:

(A) The unit has both a stack gas volumetric flow rate monitor and a COconcentration monitor.

(B) The unit meets the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(B) through (b)(4)(ii)(D) of this section.

(C) The COand stack gas volumetric flow rate monitors meet the conditions specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(ii)(E) and (b)(4)(ii)(F) of this section.

(iv) May apply to common stack or duct configurations where:

(A) The combined effluent gas streams from two or more stationary fuel combustion units are vented through a monitored common stack or duct. In this case, Tier 4 shall be used if all of the conditions in paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A)(1) of this section or if the conditions in paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A)(2) of this section are met.
