
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### e.g.,,etc.

(A) At least once a year, use EPA Methods 2 and 3A, and (if necessary) Method 4 in appendices A-2 and A-3 to part 60 of this chapter to perform emissions testing at a set point that best represents normal, stable process operating conditions. A minimum of three one-hour Method 3A tests are required, to determine the COconcentration. A Method 2 test shall be performed during each Method 3A run, to determine the stack gas volumetric flow rate. If moisture correction is necessary, a Method 4 run shall also be performed during each Method 3A run. Important parametric information related to the stack gas flow rate (damper positions, fan settings,) shall also be recorded during the test.

(B) Calculate a COmass emission rate (in metric tons/hr) from the stack test data, using a version of Equation C-6 in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section, modified as follows. In the Equation C-6 nomenclature, replace the words "Hourly average" in the definitions of "C" and "Q" with the words "3-run average". Substitute the arithmetic average values of COconcentration and stack gas flow rate from the emission testing into modified Equation C-6. If COis measured on a dry basis, a moisture correction of the calculated COmass emission rate is required. Use Equation C-7 in paragraph (a)(4)(ii) of this section to make this correction; replace the word "Hourly" with the words "3-run average" in the equation nomenclature.

(C) The results of each annual stack test shall be used in the GHG emissions calculations for the year of the test.

(D) If, for the majority of the operating hours during the year, the diverted stream is withdrawn at a steady rate at or near the tested set point (as evidenced by fan and damper settings and/or other parameters), you may use the calculated COmass emission rate from paragraph (a)(4)(viii)(B) of this section to estimate the COmass emissions for all operating hours in which flue gas is diverted from the main exhaust system. Otherwise, you must account for the variation in the flow rate of the diverted stream, as described in paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(E) of this section.

(E) If the flow rate of the diverted stream varies significantly throughout the year, except as provided below, repeat the stack test and emission rate calculation procedures described in paragraphs (c)(4)(viii)(A) and (c)(4)(viii)(B) of this section at a minimum of two more set points across the range of typical operating conditions to develop a correlation between COmass emission rate and the parametric data. If additional testing is not feasible, use the following approach to develop the necessary correlation. Assume that the average COconcentration obtained in the annual stack test is the same at all operating set points. Then, beginning with the measured flow rate from the stack test and the associated parametric data, perform an engineering analysis to estimate the stack gas flow rate at two or more additional set points. Calculate the COmass emission rate at each set point.

(F) Calculate the annual COmass emissions for the diverted stream as follows. For a steady-state process, multiply the number of hours in which flue gas was diverted from the main exhaust system by the COmass emission rate from the stack test. Otherwise, using the best available information and engineering judgment, apply the most representative COmass emission rate from the correlation in paragraph (c)(4)(viii)(E) of this section to determine the COmass emissions for each hour in which flue gas was diverted, and sum the results. To simplify the calculations, you may count partial operating hours as full hours.

(G) Finally, add the COmass emissions from paragraph(c)(4)(viii)(F) of this section to the annual COmass emissions measured by the CEMS at the main stack. Report this sum as the total annual COmass emissions for the unit.

(H) The exact method and procedures used to estimate the COmass emissions for the diverted portion of the flue gas exhaust stream shall be documented in the Monitoring Plan required under ยง 98.3(g)(5).
