
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### 1,2

(B) The combined effluent gas streams from a process or manufacturing unit and a stationary fuel combustion unit are vented through a monitored common stack or duct. In this case, Tier 4 shall be used if the combustion unit and the monitors installed at the common stack or duct meet the applicability criteria specified in paragraph (b)(4)(iv)(A)(), or (b)(4)(iv)(A)() of this section.

(C) The combined effluent gas streams from two or more manufacturing or process units are vented through a common stack or duct. In this case, if any of the units is required by an applicable subpart of this part to use Tier 4, the COmass emissions may be monitored at each individual unit, or the combined COmass emissions may be monitored at the common stack or duct. However, if it is not feasible to monitor the individual units, the combined COmass emissions shall be monitored at the common stack or duct.

(5) The Tier 4 Calculation Methodology shall be used:

(i) Starting on January 1, 2010, for a unit that is required to report COmass emissions beginning on that date, if all of the monitors needed to measure COmass emissions have been installed and certified by that date.

(ii) No later than January 1, 2011, for a unit that is required to report COmass emissions beginning on January 1, 2010, if all of the monitors needed to measure COmass emissions have not been installed and certified by January 1, 2010. In this case, you may use Tier 2 or Tier 3 to report GHG emissions for 2010. However, if the required CEMS are certified some time in 2010, you need not wait until January 1, 2011 to begin using Tier 4. Rather, you may switch from Tier 2 or Tier 3 to Tier 4 as soon as CEMS certification testing is successfully completed. If this reporting option is chosen, you must document the change in COcalculation methodology in the Monitoring Plan required under ยง 98.3(g)(5) and in the GHG emissions report under ยง 98.3(c). Data recorded by the CEMS during a certification test period in 2010 may be used for reporting under this part, provided that the following two conditions are met:

(A) The certification tests are passed in sequence, with no test failures.

(B) No unscheduled maintenance or repair of the CEMS is performed during the certification test period.
