
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### e.g.,

(C) For Tier 4 units, use the best available information (fuel feed rate measurements, fuel heating values, engineering analysis) to estimate the value of (HI)for each type of fuel. Instrumentation used to make these estimates is not subject to the calibration requirements of ยง 98.3(i) or to the QA requirements of ยง 98.34.

(D) Units in the Acid Rain Program and other units that report heat input data to EPA year-round according to part 75 of this chapter may use the best available information described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section, to estimate (HI)for each fuel type, whenever fuel-specific heat input values cannot be directly obtained from the electronic data reports under ยง 75.64 of this chapter.

(5) When multiple fuels are combusted during the reporting year, sum the fuel-specific results from Equations C-8, C-8a, C-8b, C-9a, C-9b, or C-10 of this section (as applicable) to obtain the total annual CHand NO emissions, in metric tons.

(6) Calculate the annual CHand NO mass emissions from the combustion of blended fuels as follows:

(i) If the mass or volume of each component fuel in the blend is measured before the fuels are mixed and combusted, calculate and report CHand NO emissions separately for each component fuel, using the applicable procedures in this paragraph (c).

(ii) If the mass or volume of each component fuel in the blend is not measured before the fuels are mixed and combusted, a reasonable estimate of the percentage composition of the blend, based on best available information, is required. Perform the following calculations for each component fuel "i" that is listed in Table C-2:

(A) Multiply (% Fuel), the estimated mass or volume percentage (decimal fraction) of component fuel "i", by the total annual mass or volume of the blended fuel combusted during the reporting year, to obtain an estimate of the annual consumption of component "i";

(B) Multiply the result from paragraph (c)(6)(ii)(A) of this section by the HHV of the fuel (default value or, if available, the measured annual average value), to obtain an estimate of the annual heat input from component "i";

(C) Calculate the annual CHand NO emissions from component "i", using Equation C-8, C-8a, C-8b, C-9a, or C-10 of this section, as applicable;

(D) Sum the annual CHemissions across all component fuels to obtain the annual CHemissions for the blend. Similarly sum the annual NO emissions across all component fuels to obtain the annual NO emissions for the blend. Report these annual emissions totals.
