
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### i.e.,

(2) You may use the procedures of this paragraph if the following three conditions are met: First, a COCEMS (or a surrogate Omonitor) and a stack gas flow rate monitor are used to determine the annual COmass emissions (either according to part 75 of this chapter, the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, or the alternative calculation methodology specified in paragraph (a)(5)(iii) of this section); second, neither MSW nor tires is combusted in the unit during the reporting year; and third, the COemissions consist solely of combustion products (no process or sorbent emissions included).

(i) For each operating hour, use Equation C-12 of this section to determine the volume of COemitted.

(ii) Sum all of the hourly Vvalues for the reporting year, to obtain V, the total annual volume of COemitted.

(iii) Calculate the annual volume of COemitted from fossil fuel combustion using Equation C-13 of this section. If two or more types of fossil fuel are combusted during the year, perform a separate calculation with Equation C-13 of this section for each fuel and sum the results.

(iv) Subtract Vfrom Vto obtain V, the annual volume of COfrom the combustion of biomass.

(v) Calculate the biogenic percentage of the annual COemissions,expressed as a decimal fraction, using Equation C-14 of this section:

(vi) Calculate the annual biogenic COmass emissions, in metric tons, by multiplying the results obtained from Equation C-14 of this section by the annual COmass emissions in metric tons, as determined:

(A) Under paragraph (a)(4)(vi) of this section, for units using the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology.

(B) Under paragraph (a)(5)(iii)(B) of this section, for units using the alternative calculation methodology specified in paragraph (a)(5)(iii).

(C) From the electronic data report required under § 75.64 of this chapter, for units in the Acid Rain Program and other units using CEMS to monitor and report COmass emissions according to part 75 of this chapter. However, before calculating the annual biogenic COmass emissions, multiply the cumulative annual COmass emissions by 0.91 to convert from short tons to metric tons.

(3) You must use the procedures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section to determine the annual biogenic COemissions from the combustion of MSW, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (e)(3)(iv) of this section. These procedures also may be used for any unit that co-fires biomass and fossil fuels, including units equipped with a COCEMS, and units for which optional separate reporting of biogenic COemissions from the combustion of tires is selected.

(i) Use an applicable COemissions calculation method in this section to quantify the total annual COmass emissions from the unit.

(ii) Determine the relative proportions of biogenic and non-biogenic COemissions in the flue gas on a quarterly basis using the method specified in § 98.34(d) (for units that combust MSW as the primary fuel or as the only fuel with a biogenic component) or in § 98.34(e) (for other units, including units that combust tires).

(iii) Determine the annual biogenic COmass emissions from the unit by multiplying the total annual COmass emissions by the annual average biogenic decimal fraction obtained from § 98.34(d) or § 98.34(e), as applicable.

(iv) If the combustion of MSW and/or tires provides no more than 10 percent of the annual heat input to a unit, or if a small, batch incinerator combusts no more than 1,000 tons per year of MSW, you may estimate the annual biogenic COemissions as follows, in lieu of following the procedures in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (e)(3)(iii) of this section:

(A) Calculate the total annual COemissions from combustion of MSW and/or tires in the unit, using the Tier 1 calculation methodology in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(B) Multiply the result from paragraph (e)(3)(iv)(A) of this section by the appropriate default factor to determine the annual biogenic COemissions, in metric tons. For MSW, use a default factor of 0.60 and for tires, use a default factor of 0.20.

(4) If Equation C-1 or Equation C-2a of this section is selected to calculate the annual biogenic mass emissions for wood, wood waste, or other solid biomass-derived fuel, Equation C-15 of this section may be used to quantify biogenic fuel consumption, provided that all of the required input parameters are accurately quantified. Similar equations and calculation methodologies based on steam generation and boiler efficiency may be used, provided that they are documented in the GHG Monitoring Plan required by § 98.3(g)(5).
