
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### CH,N,O,Fuel,EF

or= 1 x 10**(Eq. C-8b)

(2) Use Equation C-9a of this section to estimate CHand NO emissions for any fuels for which you use the Tier 2 Equation C-2a of this section to estimate COemissions. Use the same values for fuel consumption and HHV that you use for the Tier 2 calculation.

(3) Use Equation C-9b of this section to estimate CHand NO emissions for any fuels for which you use Equation C-2c of this section to calculate the COemissions. Use the same values for steam generation and the ratio "B" that you use for Equation C-2c.

(4) Use Equation C-10 of this section for: units subject to subpart D of this part; units that qualify for and elect to use the alternative COmass emissions calculation methodologies described in paragraph (a)(5) of this section; and units that use the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology.

(i) If only one type of fuel listed in Table C-2 of this subpart is combusted during the reporting year, substitute the cumulative annual heat input from combustion of the fuel into Equation C-10 of this section to calculate the annual CHor NO emissions. For units in the Acid Rain Program and units that report heat input data to EPA year-round according to part 75 of this chapter, obtain the cumulative annual heat input directly from the electronic data reports required under ยง 75.64 of this chapter. For Tier 4 units, use the best available information, as described in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(C) of this section, to estimate the cumulative annual heat input (HI).

(ii) If more than one type of fuel listed in Table C-2 of this subpart is combusted during the reporting year, use Equation C-10 of this section separately for each type of fuel, except as provided in paragraph (c)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. Determine the appropriate values of (HI)as follows:

(A) For units in the Acid Rain Program and other units that report heat input data to EPA year-round according to part 75 of this chapter, obtain (HI)for each type of fuel from the electronic data reports required under ยง 75.64 of this chapter, except as otherwise provided in paragraphs (c)(4)(ii)(B) and (c)(4)(ii)(D) of this section.

(B) For a unit that uses CEMS to monitor hourly heat input according to part 75 of this chapter, the value of (HI)obtained from the electronic data reports under ยง 75.64 of this chapter may be attributed exclusively to the fuel with the highest F-factor, when the reporting option in 3.3.6.5 of appendix F to part 75 of this chapter is selected and implemented.
