
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.33 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Biogenic CO,emissions from combustion of biomass with other fuels.,i.e.,

(e)Use the applicable procedures of this paragraph (e) to estimate biogenic COemissions from units that combust a combination of biomass and fossil fuels (either co-fired or blended fuels). Separate reporting of biogenic COemissions from the combined combustion of biomass and fossil fuels is required for those biomass fuels listed in Table C-1 of this section and for municipal solid waste. In addition, when a biomass fuel that is not listed in Table C-1 is combusted in a unit that has a maximum rated heat input greater than 250 mmBtu/hr, if the biomass fuel accounts for 10% or more of the annual heat input to the unit, and if the unit does not use CEMS to quantify its annual COmass emissions, then, pursuant to ยง 98.33(b)(3)(iii), Tier 3 must be used to determine the carbon content of the biomass fuel and to calculate the biogenic COemissions from combustion of the fuel. Notwithstanding these requirements, in accordance with ยง 98.3(c)(12), separate reporting of biogenic COemissions is optional for the 2010 reporting year for units subject to subpart D of this part and for units that use the COmass emissions calculation methodologies in part 75 of this chapter, pursuant to paragraph (a)(5) of this section. However, if the owner or operator opts to report biogenic COemissions separately for these units, the appropriate method(s) in this paragraph (e) shall be used. Separate reporting of biogenic COemissions from the combustion of tires is also optional, but may be reported by following the provisions of paragraph (e)(3) of this section.

(1) You may use Equation C-1 of this subpart to calculate the annual COmass emissions from the combustion of the biomass fuels listed in Table C-1 of this subpart (except MSW and tires), in a unit of any size, including units equipped with a COCEMS, except when the use of Tier 2 is required as specified in paragraph (b)(1)(iv) of this section. Determine the quantity of biomass combusted using one of the following procedures in this paragraph (e)(1), as appropriate, and document the selected procedures in the Monitoring Plan under ยง 98.3(g):

(i) Company records.

(ii) The procedures in paragraph (e)(4) of this section.
