
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.34 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### i.e.,,e.g.,,etc.

(A) For coal, the "type" of fuel means the rank of the coal (anthracite, bituminous, sub-bituminous, or lignite). For fuel oil, the "type" of fuel means the grade number or classification of the oil (No. 1 oil, No. 2 oil, kerosene, Jet A fuel,).

(B) The owner or operator shall document in the monitoring plan under ยง 98.3(g)(5) how the monthly sampling of each type of fuel is performed.

(iii) For liquid fuels other than fuel oil, and for gaseous fuels other than natural gas (including biogas), sampling and analysis is required at least once per calendar quarter. To the extent practicable, consecutive quarterly samples shall be taken at least 30 days apart.

(iv) For other solid fuels (except MSW), weekly sampling is required to obtain composite samples, which are then analyzed monthly.

(v) For fuel blends that are received already mixed, or that are mixed on-site without measuring the exact amount of each component, as described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, determine the HHV of the blend as follows. For blends of solid fuels (except MSW), weekly sampling is required to obtain composite samples, which are analyzed monthly. For blends of liquid or gaseous fuels, sampling and analysis is required at least once per calendar quarter. More frequent sampling is recommended if the composition of the blend varies significantly during the year.
