
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.34 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### i.e.,,e.g.,

(ii) If the fuel is received as a blend (already mixed) or if the components are mixed on site without precisely measuring the mass or volume of each one individually, a reasonable estimate of the relative proportions of the components of the blend must be made, using the best available information (the approximate annual average mass or volume percentage of each fuel, based on the typical or expected range of values). Determine the appropriate COemission factor and HHV for use in Equation C-2a of this subpart, as follows:

(A) Consider the blend to be the "fuel type," measure its HHV at the frequency prescribed in paragraph (a)(2)(v) of this section, and determine the annual average HHV value for the blend according to ยง 98.33(a)(2)(ii).

(B) Calculate a heat-weighted COemission factor, (EF), for the blend, using Equation C-16 of this section. The heat-weighting in Equation C-16 is provided by the default HHVs (from Table C-1) and the estimated mass or volume percentages of the components of the blend.

(C) Substitute into Equation C-2a of this subpart, the annual average HHV for the blend (from paragraph (a)(3)(ii)(A) of this section) and the calculated value of (EF), along with the total mass or volume of the blend combusted during the reporting year, to determine the annual COmass emissions from combustion of the blend.

(iii) Note that for the case described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section, if measured HHV values for the individual fuels in the blend or for the blend itself are not routinely received at the minimum frequency prescribed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section (or at a greater frequency), and if the unit qualifies to use Tier 1, calculate (HHV)*, the heat-weighted default HHV for the blend, using Equation C-17 of this section. Then, use Equation C-16 of this section, replacing the term (HHV)with (HHV)* in the denominator, to determine the heat-weighted COemission factor for the blend. Finally, substitute into Equation C-1 of this subpart, the calculated values of (HHV)* and (EF), along with the total mass or volume of the blend combusted during the reporting year, to determine the annual COmass emissions from combustion of the blend.

(iv) If the fuel blend described in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section consists of a mixture of fuel(s) listed in Table C-1 of this subpart and one or more fuels not listed in Table C-1, calculate COand other GHG emissions only for the Table C-1 fuel(s), using the best available estimate of the mass or volume percentage(s) of the Table C-1 fuel(s) in the blend. In this case, Tier 1 shall be used, with the following modifications to Equations C-17 and C-1, to account for the fact that not all of the fuels in the blend are listed in Table C-1:

(A) In Equation C-17, apply the term (Fuel)only to the Table C-1 fuels. For each Table C-1 fuel, (Fuel)will be the estimated mass or volume percentage of the fuel in the blend, divided by the sum of the mass or volume percentages of the Table C-1 fuels. For example, suppose that a blend consists of two Table C-1 fuels ("A" and "B") and one fuel type ("C") not listed in the Table, and that the volume percentages of fuels A, B, and C in the blend, expressed as decimal fractions, are, respectively, 0.50, 0.30, and 0.20. The term (Fuel)in Equation C-17 for fuel A will be 0.50/(0.50 + 0.30) = 0.625, and for fuel B, (Fuel)will be 0.30/(0.50 + 0.30) = 0.375.

(B) In Equation C-1, the term "Fuel" will be equal to the total mass or volume of the blended fuel combusted during the year multiplied by the sum of the mass or volume percentages of the Table C-1 fuels in the blend. For the example in paragraph (a)(3)(iv)(A) of this section, "Fuel" = (Annual volume of the blend combusted)(0.80).

(4) If, for a particular type of fuel, HHV sampling and analysis is performed more often than the minimum frequency specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, the results of all valid fuel analyses shall be used in the GHG emission calculations.

(5) If, for a particular type of fuel, valid HHV values are obtained at less than the minimum frequency specifed in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, appropriate substitute data values shall be used in the emissions calculations, in accordance with missing data procedures of ยง 98.35.
