
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.34 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### e.g.,

(E) For gaseous fuels other than natural gas and biogas (process gas), daily sampling and analysis to determine the carbon content and molecular weight of the fuel is required if continuous, on-line equipment, such as a gas chromatograph, is in place to make these measurements. Otherwise, weekly sampling and analysis shall be performed.

(F) For mixtures (blends) of solid fuels, weekly sampling is required to obtain composite samples, which are analyzed monthly. For blends of liquid fuels, and for gas mixtures consisting only of natural gas and biogas, sampling and analysis is required at least once per calendar quarter. For gas mixtures that contain gases other than natural gas (including biogas), daily sampling and analysis to determine the carbon content and molecular weight of the fuel is required if continuous, on-line equipment is in place to make these measurements. Otherwise, weekly sampling and analysis shall be performed.

(iii) If, for a particular type of fuel, sampling and analysis for carbon content and molecular weight is performed more often than the minimum frequency specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, the results of all valid fuel analyses shall be used in the GHG emission calculations.

(iv) If, for a particular type of fuel, sampling and analysis for carbon content and molecular weight is performed at less than the minimum frequency specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, appropriate substitute data values shall be used in the emissions calculations, in accordance with the missing data procedures of ยง 98.35.

(v) To calculate the COmass emissions from combustion of a blend of fuels in the same state of matter (solid, liquid, or gas), you may either:

(A) Apply Equation C-3, C-4 or C-5 of this subpart (as applicable) to each component of the blend, if the mass or volume, the carbon content, and (if applicable), the molecular weight of each component are accurately measured prior to blending; or

(B) Consider the blend to be the "fuel type." Then, at the frequency specified in paragraph (b)(3)(ii)(F) of this section, measure the carbon content and, if applicable, the molecular weight of the blend and calculate the annual average value of each parameter in the manner described in ยง 98.33(a)(2)(ii). Also measure the mass or volume of the blended fuel combusted during the reporting year. Substitute these measured values into Equation C-3, C-4, or C-5 of this subpart (as applicable).
