
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.34 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### http://www.astm.org,http://www.ansi.org,http://www.aga.org,http://www.asme.org,http://www.api.org,http://www.api.org

(4) You must use one of the following appropriate fuel sampling and analysis methods. The results of chromatographic analysis of the fuel may be used, provided that the gas chromatograph is operated, maintained, and calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions. Alternatively, you may use a method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists, or you may use industry standard practice to determine the carbon content and molecular weight (for gaseous fuel) of the fuel. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International (100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373,), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street, NW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020,), the American Gas Association (AGA, 400 North Capitol Street, NW., 4th Floor, Washington, DC 20001, (202) 824-7000,), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763,), the American Petroleum Institute (API, 1220 L Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005-4070, (202) 682-8000,), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB, 801 Travis Street, Suite 1675, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 356-0060,). The method(s) used shall be documented in the Monitoring Plan required under § 98.3(g)(5).

(c) For the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, the CO, flow rate, and (if applicable) moisture monitors must be certified prior to the applicable deadline specified in § 98.33(b)(5).

(1) For initial certification, you may use any one of the following three procedures in this paragraph.

(i) §§ 75.20(c)(2), (c)(4), and (c)(5) through (c)(7) of this chapter and appendix A to part 75 of this chapter.

(ii) The calibration drift test and relative accuracy test audit (RATA) procedures of Performance Specification 3 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (for the COconcentration monitor) and Performance Specification 6 in appendix B to part 60 of this chapter (for the continuous emission rate monitoring system (CERMS)).

(iii) The provisions of an applicable State continuous monitoring program.

(2) If an Oconcentration monitor is used to determine COconcentrations, the applicable provisions of part 75 of this chapter, part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable State continuous monitoring program shall be followed for initial certification and on-going quality assurance, and all required RATAs of the monitor shall be done on a percent CObasis.

(3) For ongoing quality assurance, follow the applicable procedures in either appendix B to part 75 of this chapter, appendix F to part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable State continuous monitoring program. If appendix F to part 60 of this chapter is selected for on-going quality assurance, perform daily calibration drift assessments for both the COmonitor (or surrogate Omonitor) and the flow rate monitor, conduct cylinder gas audits of the COconcentration monitor in three of the four quarters of each year (except for non-operating quarters), and perform annual RATAs of the COconcentration monitor and the CERMS.

(4) For the purposes of this part, the stack gas volumetric flow rate monitor RATAs required by appendix B to part 75 of this chapter and the annual RATAs of the CERMS required by appendix F to part 60 of this chapter need only be done at one operating level, representing normal load or normal process operating conditions, both for initial certification and for ongoing quality assurance.

(5) If, for any source operating hour, quality assured data are not obtained with a COmonitor (or surrogate Omonitor), flow rate monitor, or (if applicable) moisture monitor, use appropriate substitute data values in accordance with the missing data provisions of § 98.35.

(6) For certain applications where combined process emissions and combustion emissions are measured, the COconcentrations in the flue gas may be considerably higher than for combustion emissions alone. In such cases, the span of the COmonitor may, if necessary, be set higher than the specified levels in the applicable regulations. If the COspan value is set higher than 20 percent CO, the cylinder gas audits of the COmonitor under appendix F to part 60 of this chapter may be performed at 40 to 60 percent and 80 to 100 percent of span, in lieu of the prescribed calibration levels of 5 to 8 percent COand 10 to 14 percent CO.

(7) Hourly average data from the CEMS shall be validated in a manner consistent with one of the following: §§ 60.13(h)(2)(i) through (h)(2)(vi) of this chapter; § 75.10(d)(1) of this chapter; or the hourly data validation requirements of an applicable State CEM regulation.
