
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.34 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### e.g.,

(e) For other units that combust combinations of biomass fuel(s) (or heterogeneous fuels that have a biomass component,tires) and fossil (or other non-biogenic) fuel(s), in any proportions, ASTM D6866-16 and ASTM D7459-08 (both incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) may be used to determine the biogenic portion of the COemissions in every calendar quarter in which biomass and non-biogenic fuels are co-fired in the unit. Follow the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section. If the primary fuel for multiple units at the facility consists of tires, and the units are fed from a common fuel source, testing at only one of the units is sufficient.

(f) The records required under § 98.3(g)(2)(i) shall include an explanation of how the following parameters are determined from company records (or, if applicable, from the best available information):

(1) Fuel consumption, when the Tier 1 and Tier 2 Calculation Methodologies are used, including cases where § 98.36(c)(4) applies.

(2) Fuel consumption, when solid fuel is combusted and the Tier 3 Calculation Methodology is used.

(3) Fossil fuel consumption when § 98.33(e)(2) applies to a unit that uses CEMS to quantify COemissions and that combusts both fossil and biomass fuels.

(4) Sorbent usage, when § 98.33(d) applies.

(5) Quantity of steam generated by a unit when § 98.33(a)(2)(iii) applies.

(6) Biogenic fuel consumption and high heating value, as applicable, under §§ 98.33(e)(5) and (e)(6).

(7) Fuel usage for CHand NO emissions calculations under § 98.33(c)(4)(ii).

(8) Mass of biomass combusted, for premixed fuels that contain biomass and fossil fuels under § 98.33(e)(1)(iii).
