
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### Aggregation of units.

(1)If a facility contains two or more units (e.g., boilers or combustion turbines), each of which has a maximum rated heat input capacity of 250 mmBtu/hr or less, you may report the combined GHG emissions for the group of units in lieu of reporting GHG emissions from the individual units, provided that the use of Tier 4 is not required or elected for any of the units and the units use the same tier for any common fuels combusted. If this option is selected, the following information shall be reported instead of the information in paragraph (b) of this section:

(i) Group ID number, beginning with the prefix "GP".

(ii) [Reserved]

(iii) Cumulative maximum rated heat input capacity of the group (mmBtu/hr). The cumulative maximum rated heat input capacity shall be determined as the sum of the maximum rated heat input capacities for all units in the group, excluding units less than 10 (mmBtu/hr).

(iv) The highest maximum rated heat input capacity of any unit in the group (mmBtu/hr).

(v) Each type of fuel combusted in the group of units during the reporting year.

(vi) Annual COmass emissions and annual CH, and NO mass emissions, aggregated for each type of fuel combusted in the group of units during the report year, expressed in metric tons of each gas and in metric tons of COe. If any of the units burn both fossil fuels and biomass, report also the annual COemissions from combustion of all fossil fuels combined and annual COemissions from combustion of all biomass fuels combined, expressed in metric tons.
