
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(i) If the total annual COmass emissions measured by the CEMS consists entirely of non-biogenic CO(COfrom fossil fuel combustion plus, if applicable, COfrom sorbent and/or process CO), report the total annual COmass emissions, expressed in metric tons. You are not required to report the combustion COemissions by fuel type.

(ii) Report the total annual COmass emissions measured by the CEMS. If this total includes both biogenic and non-biogenic CO, separately report the annual non-biogenic COmass emissions and the annual COmass emissions from biomass combustion, each expressed in metric tons. You are not required to report the combustion COemissions by fuel type.

(iii) An estimate of the heat input from each type of fuel listed in Table C-2 of this subpart that was combusted in the unit during the report year.

(iv) The annual CHand NO emissions for each type of fuel listed in Table C-2 of this subpart that was combusted in the unit during the report year, expressed in metric tons of each gas and in metric tons of COe.

(10) Annual COemissions from sorbent (if calculated using Equation C-11 of this subpart), expressed in metric tons.

(11) If applicable, the plant code (as defined in ยง 98.6).
