
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### e.g.,,etc.

(i) Unit, stack, or pipe ID numbers. Use exact same unit, common stack, common pipe, or multiple stack identification numbers that represent the monitored locations (1, 2, CS001, MS1A, CP001,) that are reported under § 75.64 of this chapter.

(ii) For units that use the alternative methods specified in § 98.33(a)(5)(i) and (ii) to monitor and report heat input data year-round according to appendix D to part 75 of this chapter or § 75.19 of this chapter:

(A) Each type of fuel combusted in the unit during the reporting year.

(B) The methodology used to calculate the COmass emissions for each fuel type.

(C) Methodology start date.

(D) Methodology end date.

(E) A code or flag to indicate whether heat input is calculated according to appendix D to part 75 of this chapter or § 75.19 of this chapter.

(F) Annual COemissions at each monitored location, across all fuel types, expressed in metric tons of COe.

(G) Annual heat input from each type of fuel listed in Table C-2 of this subpart that was combusted during the reporting year, expressed in mmBtu.

(H) Annual CHand NO emissions at each monitored location, from each fuel type listed in Table C-2 of this subpart that was combusted during the reporting year (except as otherwise provided in § 98.33(c)(4)(ii)(D)), expressed in metric tons COe.

(I) Annual COmass emissions from the combustion of biomass, expressed in metric tons COe, except where the reporting provisions of §§ 98.3(c)(12)(i) through (c)(12)(iii) are implemented for the 2010 reporting year.

(J) If applicable, the plant code (as defined in § 98.6).

(iii) For units with continuous monitoring systems that use the alternative method for units with continuous monitoring systems in § 98.33(a)(5)(iii) to monitor heat input year-round according to part 75 of this chapter:

(A) Each type of fuel combusted during the reporting year.

(B) Methodology used to calculate the COmass emissions.

(C) Methodology start date.

(D) Methodology end date.

(E) A code or flag to indicate that the heat input data is derived from CEMS measurements.

(F) The total annual COemissions at each monitored location, expressed in metric tons of COe.

(G) Annual heat input from each type of fuel listed in Table C-2 of this subpart that was combusted during the reporting year, expressed in mmBtu.

(H) Annual CHand NO emissions at each monitored location, from each fuel type listed in Table C-2 of this subpart that was combusted during the reporting year (except as otherwise provided in § 98.33(c)(4)(ii)(B)), expressed in metric tons COe.

(I) Annual COmass emissions from the combustion of biomass, expressed in metric tons COe, except where the reporting provisions of §§ 98.3(c)(12)(i) through (c)(12)(iii) are implemented for the 2010 reporting year.

(J) If applicable, the plant code (as defined in § 98.6).
