
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(D) If Equation C-2c of this subpart is used to calculate COmass emissions, report the total quantity (pounds) of steam produced from MSW or solid fuel combustion during each month of the reporting year, and the ratio of the maximum rate heat input capacity to the design rated steam output capacity of the unit, in mmBtu per lb of steam.

(E) For each HHV used in the COemissions calculations for each type of fuel combusted during the reporting year, indicate whether the HHV is a measured value or a substitute data value.

(iii) For the Tier 2 Calculation Methodology, keep records of the methods used to determine the HHV for each type of fuel combusted and the date on which each fuel sample was taken, except where fuel sampling data are received from the fuel supplier. In that case, keep records of the dates on which the results of the fuel analyses for HHV are received.

(iv) For the Tier 3 Calculation Methodology, report:

(A) The quantity of each type of fuel combusted in the unit or group of units (as applicable) during each month of the reporting year, in short tons for solid fuels, gallons for liquid fuels, and scf for gaseous fuels.

(B) The frequency of carbon content and, if applicable, molecular weight determinations for each type of fuel for the reporting year (e.g., daily, weekly, monthly, semiannually, once per fuel lot).

(C) The carbon content and, if applicable, gas molecular weight values used in the emission calculations (including both valid and substitute data values). For each calendar month of the reporting year in which carbon content and, if applicable, molecular weight determination is required, report a value of each parameter. If multiple values of a parameter are obtained in a given month, report the arithmetic average value for the month. Express carbon content as a decimal fraction for solid fuels, kg C per gallon for liquid fuels, and kg C per kg of fuel for gaseous fuels. Express the gas molecular weights in units of kg per kg-mole.

(D) The total number of valid carbon content determinations and, if applicable, molecular weight determinations made during the reporting year, for each fuel type.

(E) The number of substitute data values used for carbon content and, if applicable, molecular weight used in the annual GHG emissions calculations.

(F) The annual average HHV, when measured HHV data, rather than a default HHV from Table C-1 of this subpart, are used to calculate CHand NO emissions for a Tier 3 unit, in accordance with ยง 98.33(c)(1).

(G) The value of the molar volume constant (MVC) used in Equation C-5 (if applicable).

(v) For the Tier 3 Calculation Methodology, keep records of the following:

(A) For liquid and gaseous fuel combustion, the dates and results of the initial calibrations and periodic recalibrations of the required fuel flow meters.

(B) For fuel oil combustion, the method from ยง 98.34(b) used to make tank drop measurements (if applicable).

(C) The methods used to determine the carbon content and (if applicable) the molecular weight of each type of fuel combusted.

(D) The methods used to calibrate the fuel flow meters).

(E) The date on which each fuel sample was taken, except where fuel sampling data are received from the fuel supplier. In that case, keep records of the dates on which the results of the fuel analyses for carbon content and (if applicable) molecular weight are received.

(vi) For the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, report:

(A) The total number of source operating hours in the reporting year.

(B) The cumulative COmass emissions in each quarter of the reporting year, i.e., the sum of the hourly values calculated from Equation C-6 or C-7 of this subpart (as applicable), in metric tons.

(C) For COconcentration, stack gas flow rate, and (if applicable) stack gas moisture content, the percentage of source operating hours in which a substitute data value of each parameter was used in the emissions calculations.

(vii) For the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, keep records of:

(A) Whether the CEMS certification and quality assurance procedures of part 75 of this chapter, part 60 of this chapter, or an applicable State continuous monitoring program were used.

(B) The dates and results of the initial certification tests of the CEMS.

(C) The dates and results of the major quality assurance tests performed on the CEMS during the reporting year, i.e., linearity checks, cylinder gas audits, and relative accuracy test audits (RATAs).

(viii) If COemissions that are generated from acid gas scrubbing with sorbent injection are not captured using CEMS, report:

(A) The total amount of sorbent used during the report year, in short tons.

(B) The molecular weight of the sorbent.

(C) The ratio ("R") in Equation C-11 of this subpart.

(ix) For units that combust both fossil fuel and biomass, when biogenic COis determined according to ยง 98.33(e)(2), you shall report the following additional information, as applicable:
