
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### ยง 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### Verification data.

(e)You must keep on file, in a format suitable for inspection and auditing, sufficient data to verify the reported GHG emissions. This data and information must, where indicated in this paragraph (e), be included in the annual GHG emissions report.

(1) The applicable verification data specified in this paragraph (e) are not required to be kept on file or reported for units that meet any one of the three following conditions:

(i) Are subject to the Acid Rain Program.

(ii) Use the alternative methods for units with continuous monitoring systems provided in ยง 98.33(a)(5).

(iii) Are not in the Acid Rain Program, but are required to monitor and report COmass emissions and heat input data year-round, in accordance with part 75 of this chapter.

(2) For stationary combustion sources using the Tier 1, Tier 2, Tier 3, and Tier 4 Calculation Methodologies in ยง 98.33(a) to quantify COemissions, the following additional information shall be kept on file and included in the GHG emissions report, where indicated:

(i) For the Tier 1 Calculation Methodology, report:

(A) The total quantity of each type of fuel combusted in the unit or group of aggregated units (as applicable) during the reporting year, in short tons for solid fuels, gallons for liquid fuels and standard cubic feet for gaseous fuels, or, if applicable, therms or mmBtu for natural gas.

(B) If applicable, the moisture content used to calculate the wood and wood residuals wet basis HHV for use in Equations C-1 and C-8 of this subpart, in percent.

(ii) For the Tier 2 Calculation Methodology, report:

(A) The total quantity of each type of fuel combusted in the unit or group of aggregated units (as applicable) during each month of the reporting year. Express the quantity of each fuel combusted during the measurement period in short tons for solid fuels, gallons for liquid fuels, and scf for gaseous fuels.

(B) The frequency of the HHV determinations (e.g., once a month, once per fuel lot).

(C) The high heat values used in the COemissions calculations for each type of fuel combusted during the reporting year, in mmBtu per short ton for solid fuels, mmBtu per gallon for liquid fuels, and mmBtu per scf for gaseous fuels. Report a HHV value for each calendar month in which HHV determination is required. If multiple values are obtained in a given month, report the arithmetic average value for the month.
