
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### e.g.,,etc.

(i) Unit or stack identification numbers. Use exact same unit, common stack, common pipe, or multiple stack identification numbers that represent the monitored locations (1, 2, CS001, MS1A, CP001,) that are reported under § 75.64 of this chapter.

(ii) Annual COemissions at each monitored location, expressed in both short tons and metric tons. Separate reporting of biogenic COemissions under § 98.3(c)(4)(ii) and § 98.3(c)(4)(iii)(A) is optional only for the 2010 reporting year, as provided in § 98.3(c)(12).

(iii) Annual CHand NO emissions at each monitored location, for each fuel type listed in Table C-2 that was combusted during the year (except as otherwise provided in § 98.33(c)(4)(ii)(B)), expressed in metric tons of COe.

(iv) The total heat input from each fuel listed in Table C-2 that was combusted during the year (except as otherwise provided in § 98.33(c)(4)(ii)(B)), expressed in mmBtu.

(v) Identification of the Part 75 methodology used to determine the COmass emissions.

(vi) Methodology start date.

(vii) Methodology end date.

(viii) Acid Rain Program indicator.

(ix) Annual COmass emissions from the combustion of biomass, expressed in metric tons of COe, except where the reporting provisions of §§ 98.3(c)(12)(i) through (c)(12)(iii) are implemented for the 2010 reporting year.

(x) If applicable, the plant code (as defined in § 98.6).

(2) For units that use the alternative COmass emissions calculation methods provided in § 98.33(a)(5), you shall report the following unit-level information:
