
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart C - General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources
###### § 98.36 Data reporting requirements.
####### Common pipe configurations.

(3)When two or more stationary combustion units at a facility combust the same type of liquid or gaseous fuel and the fuel is fed to the individual units through a common supply line or pipe, you may report the combined emissions from the units served by the common supply line, in lieu of separately reporting the GHG emissions from the individual units, provided that the total amount of fuel combusted by the units is accurately measured at the common pipe or supply line using a fuel flow meter, or, for natural gas, the amount of fuel combusted may be obtained from gas billing records. For Tier 3 applications, the flow meter shall be calibrated in accordance with § 98.34(b). If a portion of the fuel measured (or obtained from gas billing records) at the main supply line is diverted to either: A flare; or another stationary fuel combustion unit (or units), including units that use a COmass emissions calculation method in part 75 of this chapter; or a chemical or industrial process (where it is used as a raw material but not combusted), and the remainder of the fuel is distributed to a group of combustion units for which you elect to use the common pipe reporting option, you may use company records to subtract out the diverted portion of the fuel from the fuel measured (or obtained from gas billing records) at the main supply line prior to performing the GHG emissions calculations for the group of units using the common pipe option. If the diverted portion of the fuel is combusted, the GHG emissions from the diverted portion shall be accounted for in accordance with the applicable provisions of this part. When the common pipe option is selected, the applicable tier shall be used based on the maximum rated heat input capacity of the largest unit served by the common pipe configuration, except where the applicable tier is based on criteria other than unit size. For example, if the maximum rated heat input capacity of the largest unit is greater than 250 mmBtu/hr, Tier 3 will apply, unless the fuel transported through the common pipe is natural gas or distillate oil, in which case Tier 2 may be used, in accordance with § 98.33(b)(2)(ii). As a second example, in accordance with § 98.33(b)(1)(v), Tier 1 may be used regardless of unit size when natural gas is transported through the common pipe, if the annual fuel consumption is obtained from gas billing records in units of therms or mmBtu. When the common pipe reporting option is selected, the following information shall be reported instead of the information in paragraph (b) of this section:

(i) Common pipe identification number, beginning with the prefix "CP".

(ii) Cumulative maximum rated heat input capacity of the units served by the common pipe (mmBtu/hr). The cumulative maximum rated heat input capacity shall be determined as the sum of the maximum rated heat input capacities for all units served by the common pipe, excluding units less than 10 (mmBtu/hr).

(iii) The highest maximum rated heat input capacity of any unit served by the common pipe (mmBtu/hr).

(iv) The fuels combusted in the units during the reporting year.

(v) The methodology used to calculate the COmass emissions (i.e., Tier 1, Tier 2, or Tier 3).

(vi) If the any of the units burns both fossil fuels and biomass, the annual COmass emissions from combustion of all fossil fuels and annual COemissions from combustion of all biomass fuels from the units served by the common pipe, expressed in metric tons.

(vii) Annual COmass emissions and annual CHand NO emissions from each fuel type for the units served by the common pipe, expressed in metric tons of each gas and in metric tons of COe.

(viii) Methodology start date.

(ix) Methodology end date.

(x) If applicable, the plant code (as defined in § 98.6).

(4) The following alternative reporting option applies to facilities at which a common liquid or gaseous fuel supply is shared between one or more large combustion units, such as boilers or combustion turbines (including units subject to subpart D of this part and other units subject to part 75 of this chapter) and small combustion sources, including, but not limited to, space heaters, hot water heaters, and lab burners. In this case, you may simplify reporting by attributing all of the GHG emissions from combustion of the shared fuel to the large combustion unit(s), provided that:

(i) The total quantity of the fuel combusted during the report year in the units sharing the fuel supply is measured, either at the "gate" to the facility or at a point inside the facility, using a fuel flow meter, billing meter, or tank drop measurements (as applicable);

(ii) On an annual basis, at least 95 percent (by mass or volume) of the shared fuel is combusted in the large combustion unit(s), and the remainder is combusted in the small combustion sources. Company records may be used to determine the percentage distribution of the shared fuel to the large and small units; and

(iii) The use of this reporting option is documented in the Monitoring Plan required under § 98.3(g)(5). Indicate in the Monitoring Plan which units share the common fuel supply and the method used to demonstrate that this alternative reporting option applies. For the small combustion sources, a description of the types of units and the approximate number of units is sufficient.
