
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart E - Adipic Acid Production
###### ยง 98.54 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must conduct a new performance test and calculate a new emissions factor for each adipic acid production unit according to the frequency specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Conduct the performance test annually. The test must be conducted at a point during production that is representative of the average emissions rate from your process. You must document the methods used to determine the representative point.

(2) Conduct the performance test when your adipic acid production process is changed either by altering the ratio of cyclohexanone to cyclohexanol or by installing abatement equipment.

(3) If you requested Administrator approval for an alternative method of determining NO emissions under ยง 98.53(a)(2), you must conduct the performance test if your request has not been approved by the Administrator within 150 days of the end of the reporting year in which it was submitted.

(b) You must measure the NO concentration during the performance test using one of the methods in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(1) EPA Method 320, Measurement of Vapor Phase Organic and Inorganic Emissions by Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy in 40 CFR part 63, Appendix A;
