
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart E - Adipic Acid Production
###### ยง 98.54 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(2) ASTM D6348-03 Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7); or

(3) An equivalent method, with Administrator approval.

(c) You must determine the adipic acid production rate during the performance test according to paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.

(1) Direct measurement (such as using flow meters or weigh scales).

(2) Existing plant procedures used for accounting purposes.

(d) You must determine the volumetric flow rate during the performance test in conjunction with the applicable EPA methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1 through A-4. Conduct three emissions test runs of 1 hour each. All QA/QC procedures specified in the reference test methods and any associated performance specifications apply. For each test, the facility must prepare an emissions factor determination report that must include the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section:

(1) Analysis of samples, determination of emissions, and raw data.

(2) All information and data used to derive the emissions factor.

(3) The production rate(s) during the performance test and how each production rate was determined.

(e) You must determine the monthly amount of adipic acid produced. You must also determine the monthly amount of adipic acid produced during which NO abatement technology is operating. These monthly amounts are determined according to the methods in paragraphs (c)(1) or (c)(2) of this section.

(f) You must determine the annual amount of adipic acid produced. You must also determine the annual amount of adipic acid produced during which NO abatement technology is operating. These are determined by summing the respective monthly adipic acid production quantities determined in paragraph (e) of this section.
