
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart F - Aluminum Production
###### ยง 98.66 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), you must report the following information at the facility level:

(a) [Reserved]

(b) Type of smelter technology used.

(c) The following PFC-specific information on an annual basis:

(1) Perfluoromethane emissions and perfluoroethane emissions from anode effects in all prebake and all S&#xF8;derberg electrolysis cells combined.

(2) Anode effect minutes per cell-day (AE-mins/cell-day), anode effect frequency (AE/cell-day), anode effect duration (minutes). (Or anode effect overvoltage factor ((kg CF4/metric ton Al)/(mV/cell day)), potline overvoltage (mV/cell day), current efficiency (%)).

(3) Smelter-specific slope coefficients (or overvoltage emission factors) and the last date when the smelter-specific slope coefficients (or overvoltage emission factors) were measured.

(d) Method used to measure the frequency and duration of anode effects (or overvoltage).

(e) The following CO-specific information for prebake cells:

(1) Annual anode consumption if using the method in ยง 98.63(g).

(2) Annual COemissions from the smelter.

(f) The following CO-specific information for S&#xF8;derberg cells:

(1) Annual paste consumption if using the method in ยง 98.63(g).

(2) Annual COemissions from the smelter.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Exact data elements required will vary depending on smelter technology (e.g., point-feed prebake or S&#xF8;derberg) and process control technology (e.g., Pechiney or other).
