
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart G - Ammonia Manufacturing
###### ยง 98.74 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(8) ASTM D5373-08 Standard Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7).

(d) Calibrate all oil and gas flow meters that are used to measure liquid and gaseous feedstock volumes and flow rates (except for gas billing meters) according to the monitoring and QA/QC requirements for the Tier 3 methodology in ยง 98.34(b)(1). Perform oil tank drop measurements (if used to quantify feedstock volumes) according to ยง 98.34(b)(2).

(e) For quality assurance and quality control of the supplier data, on an annual basis, you must measure the carbon contents of a representative sample of the feedstocks consumed using the appropriate ASTM Method as listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(8) of this section.

(f) You may use company records or an engineering estimate to determine the annual ammonia production and the annual methanol production.

(g) If COfrom ammonia production is used to produce urea at the same facility, you must determine the quantity of urea produced using methods or plant instruments used for accounting purposes (such as sales records). You must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of urea produced.
