
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart H - Cement Production
###### § 98.84 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must determine the weight fraction of total CaO and total MgO in CKD not recycled to the kiln from each kiln using ASTM C114-09, Standard Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Hydraulic Cement (incoporated by reference, see § 98.7). The monitoring must be conducted quarterly for each kiln from a CKD sample drawn either as CKD is exiting the kiln or from bulk CKD storage.

(b) You must determine the weight fraction of total CaO and total MgO in clinker from each kiln using ASTM C114-09 Standard Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Hydraulic Cement (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7). The monitoring must be conducted monthly for each kiln from a monthly clinker sample drawn from bulk clinker storage if storage is dedicated to the specific kiln, or from a monthly arithmetic average of daily clinker samples drawn from the clinker conveying systems exiting each kiln.

(c) The total organic carbon content (dry basis) of raw materials must be determined annually using ASTM C114-09 Standard Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Hydraulic Cement (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) or a similar industry standard practice or method approved for total organic carbon determination in raw mineral materials. The analysis must be conducted either on sample material drawn from bulk raw kiln feed storage or on sample material drawn from bulk raw material storage for each category of raw material (i.e., limestone, sand, shale, iron oxide, and alumina). Facilities that opt to use the default total organic carbon factor provided in § 98.83(d)(3), are not required to monitor for TOC.

(d) The quantity of clinker produced monthly by each kiln must be determined by direct weight measurement of clinker using the same plant techniques used for accounting purposes, such as reconciling weigh hopper or belt weigh feeder measurements against inventory measurements. As an alternative, facilities may also determine clinker production by direct measurement of raw kiln feed and application of a kiln-specific feed-to-clinker factor. Facilities that opt to use a feed-to-clinker factor must verify the accuracy of this factor on a monthly basis.

(e) The quantity of CKD not recycled to the kiln generated by each kiln must be determined quarterly using the same plant techniques used for accounting purposes, such as direct weight measurement using weigh hoppers, truck weigh scales, or belt weigh feeders.

(f) The annual quantity of raw kiln feed or annual quantity of each category of raw materials consumed by the facility (e.g., limestone, sand, shale, iron oxide, and alumina) must be determined monthly by direct weight measurement using the same plant instruments used for accounting purposes, such as weigh hoppers, truck weigh scales, or belt weigh feeders.

(g) The monthly non-calcined CaO and MgO that remains in the clinker in the form of CaCOor that enters the kiln as a non-carbonate species may be assumed to be a default value of 0.0 or may be determined monthly by careful chemical analysis of feed material and clinker material from each kiln using well documented analytical and calculational methods or the appropriate industry standard practice.

(h) The quarterly non-calcined CaO and MgO that remains in the CKD in the form of CaCOor that enters the kiln as a non-carbonate species may be assumed to be a default value of 0.0 or may be determined quarterly by careful chemical analysis of feed material and CKD material from each kiln using well documented analytical and calculational methods or the appropriate industry standard practice.
