
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart H - Cement Production
###### ยง 98.86 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section, as appropriate.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by ยง 98.36(e)(2)(vi) and the information listed in this paragraph(a):

(1) Monthly clinker production from each kiln at the facility.

(2) Annual facility cement production.

(3) Number of kilns and number of operating kilns.

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must report the information listed in this paragraph (b) for each kiln:

(1) Kiln identification number.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Annual cement production at the facility.

(4) Number of kilns and number of operating kilns.

(5)-(6) [Reserved]

(7) Method used to determine non-calcined CaO and non-calcined MgO in clinker.

(8) [Reserved]

(9) Method used to determine non-calcined CaO and non-calcined MgO in CKD.

(10) [Reserved]

(11) Quarterly kiln-specific CKD COemission factors for each kiln (metric tons CO/metric ton CKD produced).

(12) [Reserved]

(13) Name of raw kiln feed or raw material.

(14) Number of times missing data procedures were used to determine the following information:

(i) Clinker production (number of months).

(ii) Carbonate contents of clinker (number of months).

(iii) Non-calcined content of clinker (number of months).

(iv) CKD not recycled to kiln (number of quarters).

(v) Non-calcined content of CKD (number of quarters)

(vi) Organic carbon contents of raw materials (number of times).

(vii) Raw material consumption (number of months).

(15) Method used to determine the monthly clinker production from each kiln.

(16) Annual clinker production (metric tons).

(17) Annual average clinker COemission factor for the facility, averaged across all kilns (metric tons CO/metric ton clinker produced).

(18) Annual average CKD COemission factor for the facility, averaged across all kilns (metric tons CO/metric ton CKD produced).
