
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart I - Electronics Manufacturing
###### § 98.91 Reporting threshold.

(a) You must report GHG emissions under this subpart if electronics manufacturing production processes, as defined in § 98.90, are performed at your facility and your facility meets the requirements of either § 98.2(a)(1) or (a)(2). To calculate total annual GHG emissions for comparison to the 25,000 metric ton COe per year emission threshold in § 98.2(a)(2), follow the requirements of § 98.2(b), with one exception. Rather than using the calculation methodologies in § 98.93 to calculate emissions from electronics manufacturing production processes, calculate emissions of each fluorinated GHG from electronics manufacturing production processes by using paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) of this section, as appropriate, and then sum the emissions of each fluorinated GHG by using paragraph (a)(4) of this section.

(1) If you manufacture semiconductors or MEMS you must calculate annual production process emissions of each input gas i for threshold applicability purposes using the default emission factors shown in Table I-1 to this subpart and Equation I-1 of this subpart.

(2) If you manufacture LCDs, you must calculate annual production process emissions of each input gas i for threshold applicability purposes using the default emission factors shown in Table I-1 to this subpart and Equation I-2 of this subpart.

(3) If you manufacture PVs, you must calculate annual production process emissions of each input gas i for threshold applicability purposes using gas-appropriate GWP values shown in Table A-1 to subpart A of this part and Equation I-3 of this subpart.

(4) You must calculate total annual production process emissions for threshold applicability purposes using Equation I-4 of this subpart.

(b) You must calculate annual manufacturing capacity of a facility using Equation I-5 of this subpart.
