
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart H - Cement Production
###### ยง 98.85 Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations in ยง 98.83 is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable, a substitute data value for the missing parameter shall be used in the calculations. The owner or operator must document and keep records of the procedures used for all such estimates.

(a) If the CEMS approach is used to determine combined process and combustion COemissions, the missing data procedures in ยง 98.35 apply.

(b) For COprocess emissions from cement manufacturing facilities calculated according to ยง 98.83(d), if data on the carbonate content (of clinker or CKD), noncalcined content (of clinker or CKD) or the annual organic carbon content of raw materials are missing, facilities must undertake a new analysis.

(c) For each missing value of monthly clinker production the substitute data value must be the best available estimate of the monthly clinker production based on information used for accounting purposes, or use the maximum tons per day capacity of the system and the number of days per month.

(d) For each missing value of monthly raw material consumption the substitute data value must be the best available estimate of the monthly raw material consumption based on information used for accounting purposes (such as purchase records), or use the maximum tons per day raw material throughput of the kiln and the number of days per month.
