
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 1 - STATEMENT OF ORGANIZATION AND GENERAL INFORMATION
##### Subpart B - Headquarters
###### ยง 1.49 Office of Water.
####### Office of Water Regulations and Standards.

(b)The Office of Water Regulations and Standards, under the supervision of a Director, is responsible for the Agency's water regulations and standards functions. The Office is responsible for developing an overall program strategy for the achievement of water pollution abatement in cooperation with other appropriate program offices. The Office assures the coordination of all national water-related activities within this water program strategy, and monitors national progress toward the achievement of water quality goals and is responsible for the development of effluent guidelines and water quality standards, and other pollutant standards, regulations, and guidelines within the program responsibilities of the Office. It exercises overall responsibility for the development of effective State and Regional water quality regulatory control programs. The Office is responsible for the development and maintenance of a centralized water programs data system including compatible water quality, discharger, and program data files utilizing, but not displacing, files developed and maintained by other program offices. It is responsible for developing national accomplishment plans and resource and schedule guidelines for monitoring and evaluating the performance, progress, and fiscal status of the organization in implementing program plans. The Office represents EPA in activities with other Federal agencies concerned with water quality regulations and standards.
