
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Review of New Sources and Modifications
###### ยง 51.165 Permit requirements.
####### General requirements for establishing PALs.

(4)(i) The plan allows the reviewing authority to establish a PAL at a major stationary source, provided that at a minimum, the requirements in paragraphs (f)(4)(i)(A) through (G) of this section are met.

(A) The PAL shall impose an annual emission limitation in tons per year, that is enforceable as a practical matter, for the entire major stationary source. For each month during the PAL effective period after the first 12 months of establishing a PAL, the major stationary source owner or operator shall show that the sum of the monthly emissions from each emissions unit under the PAL for the previous 12 consecutive months is less than the PAL (a 12-month average, rolled monthly). For each month during the first 11 months from the PAL effective date, the major stationary source owner or operator shall show that the sum of the preceding monthly emissions from the PAL effective date for each emissions unit under the PAL is less than the PAL.

(B) The PAL shall be established in a PAL permit that meets the public participation requirements in paragraph (f)(5) of this section.

(C) The PAL permit shall contain all the requirements of paragraph (f)(7) of this section.

(D) The PAL shall include fugitive emissions, to the extent quantifiable, from all emissions units that emit or have the potential to emit the PAL pollutant at the major stationary source.

(E) Each PAL shall regulate emissions of only one pollutant.

(F) Each PAL shall have a PAL effective period of 10 years.

(G) The owner or operator of the major stationary source with a PAL shall comply with the monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting requirements provided in paragraphs (f)(12) through (14) of this section for each emissions unit under the PAL through the PAL effective period.

(ii) At no time (during or after the PAL effective period) are emissions reductions of a PAL pollutant, which occur during the PAL effective period, creditable as decreases for purposes of offsets under paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of this section unless the level of the PAL is reduced by the amount of such emissions reductions and such reductions would be creditable in the absence of the PAL.
