
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart K - Ferroalloy Production
###### § 98.116 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section, as applicable:

(a) Annual facility ferroalloy product production capacity (tons).

(b) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, report the annual production for each ferroalloy product identified in § 98.110, from each EAF (tons).

(c) Total number of EAFs at facility used for production of ferroalloy products.

(d) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.

(1) Annual process COemissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy product identified in § 98.110.

(2) Annual process CHemissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy listed in Table K-1 of this subpart (metric tons).

(3) Identification number of each EAF.

(e) If a CEMS is not used to measure COprocess emissions, and the carbon mass balance procedure is used to determine COemissions according to the requirements in § 98.113(b), then you must report the following information specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(7) of this section.

(1) Annual process COemissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy identified in § 98.110 (metric tons).

(2) Annual process CHemissions (in metric tons) from each EAF used for the production of any ferroalloy listed in Table K-1 of this subpart.

(3) Identification number for each material.

(4)-(5) [Reserved]
