
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart K - Ferroalloy Production
###### § 98.115 Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations in § 98.113 is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable, a substitute data value for the missing parameter shall be used in the calculations as specified in the paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section. You must document and keep records of the procedures used for all such estimates.

(a) If you determine COemissions for the EAFs at your facility using the carbon mass balance procedure in § 98.113(b), 100 percent data availability is required for the carbon content of the input and output materials. You must repeat the test for average carbon contents of inputs according to the procedures in § 98.114(b) if data are missing.

(b) For missing records of the monthly mass of carbon-containing inputs and outputs, the substitute data value must be based on the best available estimate of the mass of the inputs and outputs from on all available process data or data used for accounting purposes, such as purchase records.

(c) If you are required to calculate CHemissions for an EAF at your facility as specified in § 98.113(d), the estimate is based an annual quantity of certain alloy products, so 100 percent data availability is required.
