
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart K - Ferroalloy Production
###### ยง 98.113 Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process COemissions from each EAF not subject to paragraph (c) of this section using the procedures in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section. For each EAF also subject to annual process CHemissions reporting, you must also calculate and report the annual process CHemissions from the EAF using the procedures in paragraph (d) of this section.

(a) Calculate and report under this subpart the process COemissions by operating and maintaining CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(b) Calculate and report under this subpart the annual process COemissions using the procedure in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Calculate and report under this subpart the annual process COemissions from EAFs by operating and maintaining a CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and the applicable requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(2) Calculate and report under this subpart the annual process COemissions from the EAFs using the carbon mass balance procedure specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section.

(i) For each EAF, determine the annual mass of carbon in each carbon-containing input and output material for the EAF and estimate annual process COemissions from the EAF using Equation K-1 of this section. Carbon-containing input materials include carbon electrodes and carbonaceous reducing agents. If you document that a specific input or output material contributes less than 1 percent of the total carbon into or out of the process, you do not have to include the material in your calculation using Equation K-1 of this section.

(ii) Determine the combined annual process COemissions from the EAFs at your facility using Equation K-2 of this section.

(c) If GHG emissions from an EAF are vented through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports COemissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be used to calculate process emissions. The owner or operator shall report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part.

(d) For the EAFs at your facility used for the production of any ferroalloy listed in Table K-1 of this subpart, you must calculate and report the annual CHemissions using the procedure specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For each EAF, determine the annual CHemissions using Equation K-3 of this section.

(2) Determine the combined process CHemissions from the EAFs at your facility using Equation K-4 of this section:
