
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart K - Ferroalloy Production
###### § 98.117 Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section for each EAF, as applicable.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions according to the requirements in § 98.113(a), then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37 and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section.

(1) Monthly EAF production quantity for each ferroalloy product (tons).

(2) Number of EAF operating hours each month.

(3) Number of EAF operating hours in a calendar year.

(b) If the carbon mass balance procedure is used to determine COemissions according to the requirements in § 98.113(b)(2), then you must retain records for the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) Monthly EAF production quantity for each ferroalloy product (tons).

(2) Number of EAF operating hours each month.

(3) Number of EAF operating hours in a calendar year.

(4) Monthly material quantity consumed, used, or produced for each material included for the calculations of annual process COemissions (tons).

(5) Average carbon content determined and records of the supplier provided information or analyses used for the determination for each material included for the calculations of annual process COemissions.

(c) You must keep records that include a detailed explanation of how company records of measurements are used to estimate the carbon input and output to each EAF, including documentation of specific input or output materials excluded from Equation K-1 of this subpart that contribute less than 1 percent of the total carbon into or out of the process. You also must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of materials fed, charged, or placed in an EAF including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.

(d) If you are required to calculate CHemissions for the EAF as specified in § 98.113(d), you must maintain records of the total amount of each alloy product produced for the specified reporting period, and the appropriate alloy-product specific emission factor used to calculate the CHemissions.
