
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart K - Ferroalloy Production
###### ยง 98.117 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(e)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in ยง 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (13) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (e)(1) through (13) of this section.

(1) Carbon content in reducing agent (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation K-1 of ยง 98.113).

(2) Annual mass of reducing agent fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into the EAF (tons) (Equation K-1).

(3) Carbon content of carbon electrode (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation K-1).

(4) Annual mass of carbon electrode consumed in the EAF (tons) (Equation K-1).

(5) Carbon content in ore (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation K-1).

(6) Annual mass of ore charged to the EAF (tons) (Equation K-1).

(7) Carbon content in flux material (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation K-1).

(8) Annual mass of flux material fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into the EAF to facilitate slag formation (tons) (Equation K-1).

(9) Carbon content in alloy product (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation K-1).

(10) Annual mass of alloy product produced/tapped in the EAF (tons) (Equation K-1).

(11) Carbon content in non-product outgoing material (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation K-1).

(12) Annual mass of non-product outgoing material removed from EAF (tons) (Equation K-1).

(13) CHemission factor selected from Table K-1 of this subpart for each product (kg of CHemissions/metric ton of alloy product) (Equation K-3 of ยง 98.113).
