
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.124 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Procedure.

(1)To conduct the scoping speciation, select the stream(s) (including process streams or destroyed streams) or process vent(s) that would be expected to individually or collectively contain all of the fluorinated GHG by-products of the process at their maximum concentrations and sample and analyze the contents of these selected streams or process vents. For example, if fluorinated GHG by-products are separated into one low-boiling-point and one high-boiling-point stream, sample and analyze both of these streams. Alternatively, you may sample and analyze streams where fluorinated GHG by-products occur at less than their maximum concentrations, but you must ensure that the sensitivity of the analysis is sufficient to compensate for the expected difference in concentration. For example, if you sample and analyze streams where fluorinated GHG by-products are expected to occur at one half their maximum concentrations elsewhere in the process, you must ensure that the sensitivity of the analysis is sufficient to detect fluorinated GHG by-products that occur at concentrations of 0.05 percent or higher. You do not have to sample and analyze every stream or process vent, i.e., you do not have to sample and analyze a stream or process vent that contains only fluorinated GHGs that are contained in other streams or process vents that are being sampled and analyzed. Sampling and analysis must be conducted according to the procedures in paragraph (e) of this section.
