
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.124 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Site-specific leak monitoring approach.

(1)You may develop a site-specific leak monitoring approach. You must validate the leak monitoring method and describe the method and the validation in the GHG Monitoring Plan. To validate the site-specific method, you may, for example, release a known rate of the fluorinated GHGs or surrogates of interest, or you may compare the results of the site-specific method to those of a method that has been validated for the fluorinated GHGs or surrogates of interest. In the description of the leak detection method and its validation, include a detailed description of the method, including the procedures and equipment used and any sampling strategies. Also include the rationale behind the method, including why the method is expected to result in an unbiased estimate of emissions from equipment leaks. If the method is based on methods that are used to detect or quantify leaks or other emissions in other regulations, standards, or guidelines, identify and describe the regulations, standards, or guidelines and why their methods are applicable to emissions of fluorinated GHGs or surrogates from leaks. Account for possible sources of error in the method, e.g., instrument detection limits, measurement biases, and sampling biases. Describe validation efforts, including but not limited to any comparisons against standard leaks or concentrations, any comparisons against other methods, and their results. If you use the Screening Ranges Approach, the EPA Correlation Approach, or the Unit-Specific Correlation Approach with a monitoring instrument that does not meet all of the specifications in EPA Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, then explain how and why the monitoring instrument, as used at your facility, would nevertheless be expected to accurately detect and quantify emissions of fluorinated GHGs or surrogates from process equipment, and describe how you verified its accuracy. For all methods, provide a quantitative estimate of the accuracy and precision of the method.
