
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.124 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Destruction efficiency testing.

(1)You must sample the inlet and outlet of the destruction device for a minimum of three runs of 1 hour each to determine the destruction efficiency. You must conduct the emissions testing using the methods in paragraph (e) of this section. To determine the destruction efficiency, emission testing must be conducted when operating at high loads reasonably expected to occur (i.e., representative of high total fluorinated GHG load that will be sent to the device) and when destroying the most-difficult-to-destroy fluorinated GHG (or a surrogate that is still more difficult to destroy) that is fed into the device from the processes subject to this subpart or that belongs to the group of fluorinated GHGs for which you wish to establish a DE. If the outlet concentration of a fluorinated GHG that is fed into the device is below the detection limit of the method, you may use a concentration of one-half the detection limit to estimate the destruction efficiency.

(i) If perfluoromethane (CF) is vented to the destruction device in any stream in more than trace concentrations, you must test and determine the destruction efficiency achieved specifically for CFto take credit for the CFemissions reduction.

(ii) If sulfur hexafluoride (SF) is vented to the destruction device in any stream in more than trace concentrations, you must test and determine the destruction efficiency achieved specifically for SF, or alternatively for CFas a surrogate, to take credit for the SFemissions reduction.

(iii) If saturated perfluorocarbons other than CFare vented to the destruction device in any stream in more than trace concentrations, you must test and determine the destruction efficiency achieved for the lowest molecular weight saturated perfluorocarbon vented to the destruction device, or alternatively for a lower molecular weight saturated PFC or SFas a surrogate, to take credit for the PFC emission reduction.
