
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.124 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Content of request.

(ii)Requests must contain the following information:

(A) A list of specific items of monitoring equipment and measurement services for which the request is being made and the locations (e.g., processes and vents) where each piece of monitoring equipment will be installed and where each measurement service will be provided.

(B) Identification of the specific rule requirements for which the monitoring equipment or measurement service is needed.

(C) A description of the reasons why the needed equipment could not be obtained, installed, or operated or why the needed measurement service could not be provided before July 1, 2011. The owner or operator must consider all of the data collection and emission calculation options outlined in the rule for a specific emissions source before claiming that a specific safety, technical, logistical, or legal barrier exists.

(D) If the reason for the extension is that the equipment cannot be purchased, delivered, or installed before July 1, 2011, include supporting documentation such as the date the monitoring equipment was ordered, investigation of alternative suppliers, the dates by which alternative vendors promised delivery or installation, backorder notices or unexpected delays, descriptions of actions taken to expedite delivery or installation, and the current expected date of delivery or installation.

(E) If the reason for the extension is that service providers were unable to provide necessary measurement services, include supporting documentation demonstrating that these services could not be acquired before July 1, 2011. This documentation must include written correspondence to and from at least two service providers stating that they will not be able to provide the necessary services before July 1, 2011.

(F) If the reason for the extension is that the process is operating continuously without process shutdown, include supporting documentation showing that it is not practicable to isolate the process equipment or unit and install the measurement device without a full shutdown or a hot tap, and that there is no opportunity before July 1, 2011 to install the device. Include the date of the three most recent shutdowns for each relevant process equipment or unit, the frequency of shutdowns for each relevant process equipment or unit, and the date of the next planned process equipment or unit shutdown.

(G) If the reason for the extension is that access to process streams, emissions streams, or destroyed streams, as applicable, could not be gained before July 1, 2011 for reasons other than the continuous operation of the process without shutdown, include illustrative documentation such as photographs and engineering diagrams demonstrating that access could not be gained.

(H) A description of the best available monitoring methods that will be used and how their results will be applied (i.e., which calculation method will be used) to develop the emission estimate. Where the proposed best available monitoring method is the use of current monitoring data in the mass-balance approach, include the estimated relative and absolute errors of the mass-balance approach using the current monitoring data.

(I) A description of the specific actions the owner or operator will take to comply with monitoring requirements by January 1, 2012.
