
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### § 98.124 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Monitoring for venting residual fluorinated GHG in containers.

(k)Measure the residual fluorinated GHG in containers received by the facility either using scales or using pressure and temperature measurements. You may use pressure and temperature measurements only in cases where no liquid fluorinated GHG is present in the container. Scales must have an accuracy and precision of +/-1 percent or better of the filled weight (gas plus tare) of the containers of fluorinated GHGs that are typically weighed on the scale. For example, for scales that are generally used to weigh cylinders that contain 115 pounds of gas when full and that have a tare weight of 115 pounds, this equates to +/-1 percent of 230 pounds, or +/-2.3 pounds. Pressure gauges and thermometers used to measure quantities that are monitored under this paragraph must have an accuracy and precision of +/-1 percent of full scale or better.

(l) Initial scoping speciations, emissions testing, emission factor development, emission calculation factor development, emission characterization development, and destruction efficiency determinations must be completed by February 29, 2012 for processes and operating scenarios that operate between December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2011. For other processes and operating scenarios, initial scoping speciations, emissions testing, emission factor development, emission calculation factor development, emission characterization development, and destruction efficiency determinations must be complete by February 28 of the year following the year in which the process or operating scenario commences or recommences.

(m) Calibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures using monitoring instruments traceable to the International System of Units (SI) through the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other recognized national measurement institute. Recalibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer. Use any of the following applicable flow meter test methods or the calibration procedures specified by the flow meter, weigh-scale, or other volumetric or density measure manufacturer.

(1) ASME MFC-3M-2004 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Orifice, Nozzle, and Venturi (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(2) ASME MFC-4M-1986 (Reaffirmed 1997) Measurement of Gas Flow by Turbine Meters (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(3) ASME-MFC-5M-1985, (Reaffirmed 1994) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits Using Transit-Time Ultrasonic Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(4) ASME MFC-6M-1998 Measurement of Fluid Flow in Pipes Using Vortex Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(5) ASME MFC-7M-1987 (Reaffirmed 1992) Measurement of Gas Flow by Means of Critical Flow Venturi Nozzles (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(6) ASME MFC-9M-1988 (Reaffirmed 2001) Measurement of Liquid Flow in Closed Conduits by Weighing Method (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(7) ASME MFC-11M-2006 Measurement of Fluid Flow by Means of Coriolis Mass Flowmeters (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(8) ASME MFC-14M-2003 Measurement of Fluid Flow Using Small Bore Precision Orifice Meters (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(n) All analytical equipment used to determine the concentration of fluorinated GHGs, including but not limited to gas chromatographs and associated detectors, infrared (IR), fourier transform infrared (FTIR), and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) devices, must be calibrated at a frequency needed to support the type of analysis specified in the GHG Monitoring Plan as required under § 98.124(e)(3) and 93.3(g)(5). Quality assurance samples at the concentrations of concern must be used for the calibration. Such quality assurance samples must consist of or be prepared from certified standards of the analytes of concern where available; if not available, calibration must be performed by a method specified in the GHG Monitoring Plan.

(o) Special provisions for estimating 2011 and subsequent year emissions.
