
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.124 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Content of request.

(ii)Requests must contain the following information:

(A) The information outlined in paragraph (o)(2)(ii) of this section. For scoping speciations, emission factors, and emission characterizations, substitute March 1, 2013 for July 1, 2011 and substitute March 1, 2014 for January 1, 2012. For other parameters, substitute January 1, 2012 for July 1, 2011 and substitute January 1, 2013 for January 1, 2012.

(B) A detailed outline of the unique circumstances necessitating an extension, including specific data collection issues that do not meet safety regulations, technical infeasibility or specific laws or regulations that conflict with data collection. The owner or operator must consider all the data collection and emission calculation options outlined in the rule for a specific emissions source before claiming that a specific safety, technical or legal barrier exists.

(C) A detailed explanation and supporting documentation of how and when the owner or operator will receive the required data and/or services to comply with the reporting requirements of this subpart in the future.

(E) The Administrator reserves the right to require that the owner or operator provide additional documentation.
