
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.125 Procedures for estimating missing data.

(a) A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations in ยง 98.123 is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable, a substitute data value for the missing parameter must be used in the calculations as specified in the paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section. You must document and keep records of the procedures used for all such estimates.

(b) For each missing value of the fluorinated GHG concentration or fluorine-containing compound concentration, the substitute data value must be the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident.

(c) For each missing value of the mass produced, fed into the production process, fed into the transformation process, or fed into destruction devices, the substitute value of that parameter must be a secondary mass measurement where such a measurement is available. For example, if the mass produced is usually measured with a flowmeter at the inlet to the day tank and that flowmeter fails to meet an accuracy or precision test, malfunctions, or is rendered inoperable, then the mass produced may be estimated by calculating the change in volume in the day tank and multiplying it by the density of the product. Where a secondary mass measurement is not available, the substitute value of the parameter must be an estimate based on a related parameter. For example, if a flowmeter measuring the mass fed into a destruction device is rendered inoperable, then the mass fed into the destruction device may be estimated using the production rate and the previously observed relationship between the production rate and the mass flow rate into the destruction device.
