
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.126 Data reporting requirements.
####### Calculation and reporting of CO,e.,3

(3)You must report the total fluorinated GHG emissions covered by this subpart, expressed in metric tons of COe. This includes emissions from all fluorinated gas production processes, all fluorinated gas transformation processes that are not part of a fluorinated gas production process, all fluorinated gas destruction processes that are not part of a fluorinated gas production process or a fluorinated gas transformation process, and venting of residual fluorinated GHGs from containers returned from the field. To convert fluorinated GHG emissions to COe for reporting under this section, use Equation A-1 of ยง 98.2. For fluorinated GHGs whose GWPs are not listed in Table A-1 of Subpart A of this part, use either the default GWP specified below or your best estimate of the GWP based on the information described in ยง 98.123(c)(1)(vi)(A)(). Use of quantitative structure activity relationships (QSARs) is an acceptable method for determining GWPs in situations where pure standards of the "target" fluorinated GHG are not available, the "target" fluorinated GHG cannot be isolated from gas streams, and FTIR spectra for the impurities are not available.

(i) If you choose to use a default GWP rather than your best estimate of the GWP for fluorinated GHGs whose GWPs are not listed in Table A-1 of Subpart A of this part, use a default GWP of 10,000 for fluorinated GHGs that are fully fluorinated GHGs and use a default GWP of 2000 for other fluorinated GHGs.

(ii) Provide the total annual emissions across fluorinated GHGs for the entire facility, in metric tons of COe, that were calculated using the default GWP of 2000.

(iii) Provide the total annual emissions across fluorinated GHGs for the entire facility, in metric tons of COe, that were calculated using the default GWP of 10,000.

(iv) Provide the total annual emissions across fluorinated GHGs for the entire facility, in metric tons of COe, that were calculated using your best estimate of the GWP.
