
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.127 Records that must be retained.
####### Emission factor and emission calculation factor method.

(d)Retain the following records for each process for which the emission factor or emission calculation factor method was used to estimate emissions.

(1) Identify all continuous process vents with emissions of fluorinated GHGs that are less than 10,000 metric tons COe per year and all continuous process vents with emissions of 10,000 metric tons COe per year or more. Include the data and calculation used to develop the preliminary estimate of emissions for each process vent.

(2) Identify all batch process vents.

(3) For each vent, identify the method used to develop the factor (i.e., emission factor by emissions test or emission calculation factor).

(4) The emissions test data and reports (see ยง 98.124(c)(5)) and the calculations used to determine the process-vent-specific emission factor, including the actual process-vent-specific emission factor, the average hourly emission rate of each fluorinated GHG from the process vent during the test and the process feed rate, process production rate, or other process activity rate during the test.

(5) The process-vent-specific emission calculation factor and the calculations used to determine the process-vent-specific emission calculation factor.

(6) The annual process production quantity or other process activity information in the appropriate units, along with the dates and time period during which the process was operating and dates and time periods the process vents are vented to the destruction device. As an alternative to date and time periods when process vents are vented to the destruction device, a facility may track dates and time periods that process vents by-pass the destruction device.

(7) Calculations used to determine annual emissions of each fluorinated GHG for each process and the total fluorinated GHG emissions for all processes, i.e., total for facility.
