
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### § 98.127 Records that must be retained.
####### Destruction efficiency testing.

(e)A fluorinated GHG production facility that destroys fluorinated GHGs and reflects this destruction in § 98.123 must retain the emissions performance testing reports (including revised reports) for each destruction device. The emissions performance testing report must contain all information and data used to derive the destruction efficiency for each fluorinated GHG whose destruction the facility reflects in § 98.123, as well as the key process and device conditions during the test. This information includes the following:

(1) Destruction efficiency (DE) determined for each fluorinated GHG whose destruction the facility reflects in § 98.123, in accordance with § 98.124(g)(1)(i) through (iv).

(2) Chemical identity of the fluorinated GHG(s) used in the performance test conducted to determine destruction efficiency, including surrogates, and information on why the surrogate is sufficient to demonstrate destruction efficiency for each fluorinated GHG, consistent with requirements in § 98.124(g)(1)(i) through (iv), vented to the destruction device.

(3) Mass flow rate of the stream containing the fluorinated GHG(s) or surrogate into the device during the test.

(4) Concentration (mass fraction) of each fluorinated GHG or surrogate in the stream flowing into the device during the test.

(5) Concentration (mass fraction) of each fluorinated GHG or surrogate at the outlet of the destruction device during the test.

(6) Mass flow rate at the outlet of the destruction device during the test.

(7) Test methods and analytical methods used to determine the mass flow rates and fluorinated GHG (or surrogate) concentrations of the streams flowing into and out of the destruction device during the test.

(8) Destruction device conditions that are normally monitored for device control, such as temperature, total mass flow rates into the device, and CO or Olevels.

(9) Name of all applicable Federal or State regulations that may apply to the destruction process.
