
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart L - Fluorinated Gas Production
###### ยง 98.127 Records that must be retained.
####### e.g.

(4) The quantities of the process activity used to estimate controlled and uncontrolled emissions, respectively, for the process vent, Activity, Activityor Activity, (kg product) (Equations L-21, L-22, L-26, L-27, L-35).

(5) The site-specific, process-vent-specific emission factor, EFfor the process vent, measured after the destruction device (kg fluorinated GHG emitted per kg activity) (Equation L-21).

(6) The site-specific, process-vent-specific emission calculation factor, ECFfor the process vent, for periods not vented to destruction device (kg fluorinated GHG emitted per kg activity) (Equations L-21, L-35).

(7) The site-specific, process-vent-specific emission factor(s), EFfor the process vent, measured before the destruction device (kg fluorinated GHG emitted per kg activity) (Equations L-22, L-35).

(8) The site-specific, process-vent-specific emission calculation factor for the process vent, ECF(kg fluorinated GHG emitted per kg of activity) (Equations L-26, L-27, L-35).

(9) Destruction efficiency, DE, of each destruction device for each fluorinated GHG whose destruction the facility reflects in ยง 98.123, in accordance with ยง 98.124(g)(1)(i) through (iv) (weight fraction) (Equations L-22, L-27, L-31).

(10) Emissions of each fluorinated GHG for equipment pieces for the process, E(metric ton/yr) (98.123(d)(3)).

(11) The mass of the fluorinated GHG previously produced and fed into the destruction device, RE, (metric tons) (Equation L-31).

(12) If applicable, the heel factor, h, calculated for each container size and type (decimal fraction) (Equation L-34).

(13) If applicable, the number of containers of size and type j returned to the fluorinated gas production facility, N, (Equation L-34).

(14) If applicable, the full capacity of containers of size and type j containing fluorinated GHG f, F, (metric tons) (Equation L-34).

(15) For fluorinated GHGs that do not have a chemical-specific GWP on Table A-1 of subpart A of this part, the fluorinated GHG group of which the fluorinated GHG is a member, as applicable (to permit look-up of global warming potential, GWP, or GWP, for that fluorinated GHG in Table A-1 of subpart A of this part (Equation A-1 of subpart A of this part, Equation L-35)).
