
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart N - Glass Production
###### ยง 98.143 Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process COemissions from each continuous glass melting furnace using the procedure in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(a) For each continuous glass melting furnace that meets the conditions specified in ยง 98.33(b)(4)(ii) or (iii), you must calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion COemissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure COemissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(b) For each continuous glass melting furnace that is not subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, calculate and report the process and combustion COemissions from the glass melting furnace by using either the procedure in paragraph (b)(1) of this section or the procedure in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, except as specified in paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) Calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion COemissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure COemissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(2) Calculate and report the process and combustion COemissions separately using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(vi) of this section.

(i) For each carbonate-based raw material charged to the furnace, obtain from the supplier of the raw material the carbonate-based mineral mass fraction.

(ii) Determine the quantity of each carbonate-based raw material charged to the furnace.

(iii) Apply the appropriate emission factor for each carbonate-based raw material charged to the furnace, as shown in Table N-1 to this subpart.

(iv) Use Equation N-1 of this section to calculate process mass emissions of COfor each furnace:

(v) You must calculate the total process COemissions from continuous glass melting furnaces at the facility using Equation N-2 of this section:

(vi) Calculate and report under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) the combustion COemissions in the glass furnace according to the applicable requirements in subpart C.

(c) As an alternative to data provided by the raw material supplier, a value of 1.0 can be used for the mass fraction (MF) of carbonate-based mineral i in Equation N-1 of this section.
