
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart N - Glass Production
###### ยง 98.147 Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(g), you must retain the records listed in paragraphs (a) through (d) of this section.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure emissions, then you must retain the records required under ยง 98.37 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section:

(1) Monthly glass production rate for each continuous glass melting furnace (tons).

(2) Monthly amount of each carbonate-based raw material charged to each continuous glass melting furnace (tons).

(b) If process COemissions are calculated according to the procedures specified in ยง 98.143(b), you must retain the records in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(1) Monthly glass production rate for each continuous glass melting furnace (metric tons).

(2) Monthly amount of each carbonate-based raw material charged to each continuous glass melting furnace (metric tons).

(3) Data on carbonate-based mineral mass fractions provided by the raw material supplier for all raw materials consumed annually and included in calculating process emissions in Equation N-1 of this subpart, if applicable.

(4) Results of all tests, if applicable, used to verify the carbonate-based mineral mass fraction for each carbonate-based raw material charged to a continuous glass melting furnace, including the data specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Date of test.

(ii) Method(s), and any variations of the methods, used in the analyses.

(iii) Mass fraction of each sample analyzed.

(iv) Relevant calibration data for the instrument(s) used in the analyses.

(v) Name and address of laboratory that conducted the tests.

(5) The decimal fraction of calcination achieved for each carbonate-based raw material, if a value other than 1.0 is used to calculate process mass emissions of CO.

(c) All other documentation used to support the reported GHG emissions.
