
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart O - HCFC-22 Production and HFC-23 Destruction
###### § 98.156 Data reporting requirements.

(a) In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), the HCFC-22 production facility shall report the following information for each HCFC-22 production process:

(1) Annual mass of HCFC-22 produced in metric tons.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Annual mass of reactants fed into the process in metric tons of reactant.

(4) The mass (in metric tons) of materials other than HCFC-22 and HFC-23 (i.e., unreacted reactants, HCl and other by-products) that occur in more than trace concentrations and that are permanently removed from the process.

(5) The method for tracking startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions and HFC-23 generation/emissions during these events.

(6) The names and addresses of facilities to which any HFC-23 was sent for destruction, and the quantities of HFC-23 (metric tons) sent to each.

(7)-(10) [Reserved]

(11) Annual mass of HFC-23 emitted in metric tons.

(12) Annual mass of HFC-23 emitted from equipment leaks in metric tons.

(13) Annual mass of HFC-23 emitted from process vents in metric tons.

(b) In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), facilities that destroy HFC-23 shall report the following for each HFC-23 destruction process:

(1)-(2) [Reserved]

(3) Annual mass of HFC-23 emitted from the destruction device.

(c) Each HFC-23 destruction facility shall report the concentration (mass fraction) of HFC-23 measured at the outlet of the destruction device during the facility's annual HFC-23 concentration measurements at the outlet of the device. If the concentration of HFC-23 is below the detection limit of the measuring device, report the detection limit and that the concentration is below the detection limit.

(d) If the HFC-23 concentration measured pursuant to § 98.154(l) is greater than that measured during the performance test that is the basis for the destruction efficiency (DE), the facility shall report the method used to calculate the revised destruction efficiency, specifying whether § 98.154(l)(1) or (2) has been used for the calculation.

(e) By March 31, 2011 or within 60 days of commencing HFC-23 destruction, HFC-23 destruction facilities shall submit a one-time report including the following information for each destruction process:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) The methods used to determine destruction efficiency.

(3) The methods used to record the mass of HFC-23 destroyed.

(4) The name of other relevant federal or state regulations that may apply to the destruction process.

(5) If any changes are made that affect HFC-23 destruction efficiency or the methods used to record volume destroyed, then these changes must be reflected in a revision to this report. The revised report must be submitted to EPA within 60 days of the change.
