
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart O - HCFC-22 Production and HFC-23 Destruction
###### ยง 98.155 Procedures for estimating missing data.

(a) A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable (e.g., if a meter malfunctions during unit operation or if a required process sample is not taken), a substitute data value for the missing parameter shall be used in the calculations, according to the following requirements:

(1) For each missing value of the HFC-23 or HCFC-22 concentration, the substitute data value shall be the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident. If, for a particular parameter, no quality-assured data are available prior to the missing data incident, the substitute data value shall be the first quality-assured value obtained after the missing data period.

(2) For each missing value of the product stream mass flow or product mass, the substitute value of that parameter shall be a secondary product measurement where such a measurement is available. If that measurement is taken significantly downstream of the usual mass flow or mass measurement (e.g., at the shipping dock rather than near the reactor), the measurement shall be multiplied by 1.015 to compensate for losses. Where a secondary mass measurement is not available, the substitute value of the parameter shall be an estimate based on a related parameter. For example, if a flowmeter measuring the mass fed into a destruction device is rendered inoperable, then the mass fed into the destruction device may be estimated using the production rate and the previously observed relationship between the production rate and the mass flow rate into the destruction device.
