
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart O - HCFC-22 Production and HFC-23 Destruction
###### ยง 98.154 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

These requirements apply to measurements that are reported under this subpart or that are used to estimate reported quantities pursuant to ยง 98.153.

(a) The concentrations (fractions by weight) of HFC-23 and HCFC-22 in the product stream shall be measured at least weekly using equipment and methods (e.g., gas chromatography) with an accuracy and precision of 5 percent or better at the concentrations of the process samples.

(b) The mass flow of the product stream containing the HFC-23 shall be measured at least weekly using weigh scales, flowmeters, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better.

(c) The mass of HCFC-22 or HCl coming out of the production process shall be measured at least weekly using weigh scales, flowmeters, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better.

(d) The mass of any used HCFC-22 added back into the production process upstream of the output measurement in paragraph (c) of this section shall be measured (when being added) using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better. If the mass in paragraph (c) of this section is measured by weighing containers that include returned heels as well as newly produced fluorinated GHGs, the returned heels shall be considered used fluorinated HCFC-22 for purposes of this paragraph (d) of this section and ยง 98.153(b).

(e) The loss factor LF in Equation O-3 of this subpart for the mass of HCFC-22 produced shall have the value 1.015 or another value that can be demonstrated, to the satisfaction of the Administrator, to account for losses of HCFC-22 between the reactor and the point of measurement at the facility where production is being estimated.

(f) The mass of HFC-23 sent off site for sale shall be measured at least weekly (when being packaged) using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better.

(g) The mass of HFC-23 sent off site for destruction shall be measured at least weekly (when being packaged) using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than trace concentrations of materials other than HFC-23, the concentration of the fluorinated GHG shall be measured at least weekly using equipment and methods (e.g., gas chromatography) with an accuracy and precision of 5 percent or better at the concentrations of the process samples. This concentration (mass fraction) shall be multiplied by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of the HFC-23 sent to another facility for destruction.

(h) The masses of HFC-23 in storage at the beginning and end of the year shall be measured using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better.

(i) The number of sources of equipment type t with screening values greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmv shall be determined using EPA Method 21 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7, and defining a leak as follows:

(1) A leak source that could emit HFC-23, and

(2) A leak source at whose surface a concentration of fluorocarbons equal to or greater than 10,000 ppm is measured.

(j) The number of sources of equipment type t with screening values less than 10,000 ppmv shall be the difference between the number of leak sources of equipment type t that could emit HFC-23 and the number of sources of equipment type t with screening values greater than or equal to 10,000 ppmv as determined under paragraph (i) of this section.

(k) The mass of HFC-23 emitted from process vents shall be estimated at least monthly by incorporating the results of the most recent emissions test into Equation O-7 of this subpart. HCFC-22 production facilities that use a destruction device connected to the HCFC-22 production equipment shall conduct emissions tests at process vents at least once every five years or after significant changes to the process. Emissions tests shall be conducted in accordance with EPA Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6, under conditions that are typical for the production process at the facility. The sensitivity of the tests shall be sufficient to detect an emission rate that would result in annual emissions of 200 kg of HFC-23 if sustained over one year.

(l) For purposes of Equation O-9 of this subpart, the destruction efficiency must be equated to the destruction efficiency determined during a new or previous performance test of the destruction device. HFC-23 destruction facilities shall conduct annual measurements of HFC-23 concentrations at the outlet of the destruction device in accordance with EPA Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6. Three samples shall be taken under conditions that are typical for the production process and destruction device at the facility, and the average concentration of HFC-23 shall be determined. The sensitivity of the concentration measurement shall be sufficient to detect an outlet concentration equal to or less than the outlet concentration determined in the destruction efficiency performance test. If the concentration measurement indicates that the HFC-23 concentration is less than or equal to that measured during the performance test that is the basis for the destruction efficiency, continue to use the previously determined destruction efficiency. If the concentration measurement indicates that the HFC-23 concentration is greater than that measured during the performance test that is the basis for the destruction efficiency, facilities shall either:

(1) Substitute the higher HFC-23 concentration for that measured during the destruction efficiency performance test and calculate a new destruction efficiency, or

(2) Estimate the mass emissions of HFC-23 from the destruction device based on the measured HFC-23 concentration and volumetric flow rate determined by measurement of volumetric flow rate using EPA Method 2, 2A, 2C,2D, or 2F at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1, or Method 26 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2. Determine the mass rate of HFC-23 into the destruction device by measuring the HFC-23 concentration and volumetric flow rate at the inlet or by a metering device for HFC-23 sent to the device. Determine a new destruction efficiency based on the mass flow rate of HFC-23 into and out of the destruction device.

(m) HCFC-22 production facilities shall account for HFC-23 generation and emissions that occur as a result of startups, shutdowns, and malfunctions, either recording HFC-23 generation and emissions during these events, or documenting that these events do not result in significant HFC-23 generation and/or emissions.

(n) The mass of HFC-23 fed into the destruction device shall be measured at least weekly using flow meters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of 1.0 percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than trace concentrations of materials other than HFC-23, the concentrations of the HFC-23 shall be measured at least weekly using equipment and methods (e.g., gas chromatography) with an accuracy and precision of 5 percent or better at the concentrations of the process samples. This concentration (mass fraction) shall be multiplied by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of the HFC-23 destroyed.

(o) In their estimates of the mass of HFC-23 destroyed, HFC-23 destruction facilities shall account for any temporary reductions in the destruction efficiency that result from any startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions of the destruction device, including departures from the operating conditions defined in State or local permitting requirements and/or destruction device manufacturer specifications.

(p) Calibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures using NIST-traceable standards and suitable methods published by a consensus standards organization (e.g., ASTM, ASME, ISO, or others). Recalibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer.

(q) All gas chromatographs used to determine the concentration of HFC-23 in process streams shall be calibrated at least monthly through analysis of certified standards (or of calibration gases prepared from a high-concentration certified standard using a gas dilution system that meets the requirements specified in Method 205 at 40 CFR part 51, appendix M) with known HFC-23 concentrations that are in the same range (fractions by mass) as the process samples.
