
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart P - Hydrogen Production
###### § 98.167 Records that must be retained.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (e) of this section for each hydrogen production facility.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in § 98.37.

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must retain records of all analyses and calculations conducted as listed in §§ 98.166(b), (c), and (d).

(c) For units using the calculation methodologies described in § 98.163(b), the records required under § 98.3(g) must include both the company records and a detailed explanation of how company records are used to estimate the following:

(1) Fuel and feedstock consumption, when solid fuel and feedstock is combusted and a CEMS is not used to measure GHG emissions.

(2) Fossil fuel consumption, when, pursuant to § 98.33(e), the owner or operator of a unit that uses CEMS to quantify COemissions and that combusts both fossil and biogenic fuels separately reports the biogenic portion of the total annual COemissions.

(3) Sorbent usage, if the methodology in § 98.33(d) is used to calculate COemissions from sorbent.

(d) The owner or operator must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of fuel and feedstock usage and sorbent usage (as applicable) in § 98.163(b), including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, fuel and feedstock flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.
