
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart P - Hydrogen Production
###### § 98.167 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(e)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (e)(1) through (12) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (e)(1) through (12) of this section.

(1) Indicate whether the monthly consumption of each gaseous fuel or feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation P-1 of § 98.163).

(2) Monthly volume of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (scf at standard conditions of 68 &#xB0;F and atmospheric pressure) (Equation P-1).

(3) Monthly mass of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-1).

(4) Average monthly carbon content of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (kg C per kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-1).

(5) Average monthly molecular weight of the gaseous fuel or feedstock (kg/kg-mole) (Equation P-1).

(6) Indicate whether the monthly consumption of each liquid fuel or feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation P-2 of § 98.163).

(7) Monthly volume of the liquid fuel or feedstock (gallons of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).

(8) Monthly mass of the liquid fuel or feedstock (kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).

(9) Average monthly carbon content of the liquid fuel or feedstock (kg C per gallon of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).

(10) Average monthly carbon content of the liquid fuel or feedstock (kg C per kg of fuel or feedstock) (Equation P-2).

(11) Monthly mass of solid fuel or feedstock (kg of fuel and feedstock) (Equation P-3 of § 98.163).

(12) Average monthly carbon content of the solid fuel or feedstock (kg C per kg of fuel and feedstock) (Equation P-3).
