
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart P - Hydrogen Production
###### ยง 98.166 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as appropriate, and paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section:

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report the relevant information required under ยง 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information in this paragraph (a):

(1) Unit identification number and annual COemissions.

(2) Annual quantity of hydrogen produced (metric tons) for each process unit.

(3) Annual quantity of ammonia produced (metric tons), if applicable, for each process unit.

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must report the following information for each hydrogen production process unit:

(1) Unit identification number and annual COemissions.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Annual quantity of hydrogen produced (metric tons).

(4) Annual quantity of ammonia intentionally produced as a desired product, if applicable (metric tons).

(5)-(6) [Reserved]

(7) Name and annual quantity (metric tons) of each carbon-containing fuel and feedstock.

(c) Quantity of COcollected and transferred off site in either gas, liquid, or solid forms, following the requirements of subpart PP of this part.

(d) Annual quantity of carbon other than COcollected and transferred off site in either gas, liquid, or solid forms (kg carbon), excluding methanol.

(e) Annual quantity of methanol intentionally produced as a desired product, if applicable, (metric tons) for each process unit.
