
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Q - Iron and Steel Production
###### ยง 98.173 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Site-specific emission factor method.

(2)Conduct a performance test and measure COemissions from all exhaust stacks for the process and measure either the feed rate of materials into the process or the production rate during the test as described in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iv) of this section.

(i) You must measure the process production rate or process feed rate, as applicable, during the performance test according to the procedures in ยง 98.174(c)(5) and calculate the average rate for the test period in metric tons per hour.

(ii) You must calculate the hourly COemission rate using Equation Q-8 of this section and determine the average hourly COemission rate for the test.

(iii) You must calculate a site-specific emission factor for the process in metric tons of COper metric ton of feed or production, as applicable, by dividing the average hourly COemission rate during the test by the average hourly feed or production rate during the test.

(iv) You must calculate COemissions for the process by multiplying the emission factor by the total amount of feed or production, as applicable, for the reporting period.

(c) You must determine emissions of COfrom the coke pushing process in mtCOe by multiplying the metric tons of coal charged to the by-product recovery and non-recovery coke ovens during the reporting period by 0.008.

(d) If GHG emissions from a taconite indurating furnace, basic oxygen furnace, non-recovery coke oven battery, sinter process, EAF, decarburization vessel, or direct reduction furnace are vented through a stack equipped with a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 methodology in subpart C of this part, or through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports COemissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be used to calculate process emissions. The owner or operator shall report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and comply with all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).
