
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Q - Iron and Steel Production
###### ยง 98.173 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Carbon mass balance method.

(1)Calculate the annual mass emissions of COfor the process as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (b)(1)(vii) of this section. The calculations are based on the annual mass of inputs and outputs to the process and an annual analysis of the respective weight fraction of carbon as determined according to the procedures in ยง 98.174(b). If you have a process input or output other than COin the exhaust gas that contains carbon that is not included in Equations Q-1 through Q-7 of this section, you must account for the carbon and mass rate of that process input or output in your calculations according to the procedures in ยง 98.174(b)(5).

(i) For taconite indurating furnaces, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-1 of this section.

(ii) For basic oxygen process furnaces, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-2 of this section.

(iii) For non-recovery coke oven batteries, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-3 of this section.

(iv) For sinter processes, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-4 of this section.

(v) For EAFs, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-5 of this section.

(vi) For decarburization vessels, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-6 of this section.

(vii) For direct reduction furnaces, estimate COemissions using Equation Q-7 of this section.
