
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Q - Iron and Steel Production
###### ยง 98.177 Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by ยง 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section, as applicable. Facilities that use CEMS to measure emissions must also retain records of the verification data required for the Tier 4 Calculating Methodology in ยง 98.36(e).

(a) Records of all analyses and calculations conducted, including all information reported as required under ยง 98.176.

(b) When the carbon mass balance method is used to estimate emissions for a process, the monthly mass of each process input and output that are used to determine the annual mass, except that no determination of the mass of steel output from decarburization vessels is required.

(c) Production capacity (in metric tons per year) for the production of taconite pellets, coke, sinter, iron, and raw steel.

(d) Annual operating hours for each taconite indurating furnace, basic oxygen furnace, non-recovery coke oven battery, sinter process, electric arc furnace, decarburization vessel, and direct reduction furnace.

(e) Facilities must keep records that include a detailed explanation of how company records or measurements are used to determine all sources of carbon input and output and the metric tons of coal charged to the coke ovens (e.g., weigh belts, a combination of measuring volume and bulk density). You also must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of fuel usage including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, fuel flow meters, coal usage including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.
