
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Q - Iron and Steel Production
###### § 98.176 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information required in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section for each coke pushing operation; taconite indurating furnace; basic oxygen furnace; non-recovery coke oven battery; sinter process; EAF; decarburization vessel; direct reduction furnace; and flare burning coke oven gas or blast furnace gas. For reporting year 2010, the information required in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section is not required for decarburization vessels that are not argon-oxygen decarburization vessels. For reporting year 2011 and each subsequent reporting year, the information in paragraphs (a) through (h) of this section must be reported for all decarburization vessels.

(a) Unit identification number and annual COemissions (in metric tons).

(b) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report the annual production quantity for the production unit (in metric tons) for taconite pellets, coke, sinter, iron, and raw steel.

(c) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report the relevant information required under § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology.

(d) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must report for each process whether the emissions were determined using the carbon mass balance method in § 98.173(b)(1) or the site-specific emission factor method in § 98.173(b)(2).

(e) If you use the carbon mass balance method in § 98.173(b)(1) to determine COemissions, you must, except as provided in § 98.174(b)(4), report the following information for each process:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Whether the carbon content was determined from information from the supplier or by laboratory analysis, and if by laboratory analysis, the method used.

(3)-(4) [Reserved]

(5) If you used the missing data procedures in § 98.175(b), you must report how the monthly mass for each process input or output with missing data was determined and the number of months the missing data procedures were used.

(6) The information specified in paragraphs (e)(6)(i) through (vi) of this section aggregated for all process units for which COemissions were determined using the mass balance method in § 98.173(b)(1), except as provided in § 98.174(b)(4).

(i) The annual mass (metric tons) of all gaseous, liquid, and solid fuels (combined) used in process units for which COemissions were determined using Equations Q-1 through Q-7 of § 98.173, calculated as specified in Equation Q-9 of this section.

(ii) The annual mass (metric tons) of all non-fuel material inputs (combined) specified in Equations Q-1 through Q-7 of § 98.173, calculated as specified in Equation Q-10 of this section.

(iii) The annual mass (metric tons) of all solid and liquid products and byproducts (combined) specified in Equations Q-1 through Q-7 of § 98.173, calculated as specified in Equation Q-11 of this section.

(iv) The weighted average carbon content of all gaseous, liquid, and solid fuels (combined) included in Equation Q-9 of this section, calculated as specified in Equation Q-12 of this section.

(v) The weighted average carbon content of all non-fuel inputs to all process units (combined) included in Equation Q-10 of this section, calculated as specified in Equation Q-13 of this section.

(vi) The weighted average carbon content of all solid and liquid products and byproducts from all process units (combined) included in Equation Q-11 of this section, calculated as specified in Equation Q-14 of this section.

(f) If you used the site-specific emission factor method in § 98.173(b)(2) to determine COemissions, you must report the following information for each process:

(1) The measured average hourly COemission rate during the test (in metric tons per hour).

(2)-(4) [Reserved]

(g) [Reserved]

(h) For flares burning coke oven gas or blast furnace gas, the information specified in § 98.256(e) of subpart Y (Petroleum Refineries) of this part.
