
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Q - Iron and Steel Production
###### § 98.177 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(f)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (9) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (f)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) The data in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (xxv) of this section for each applicable taconite indurating furnace for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual mass of each solid fuel (metric tons) (Equation Q-1 of § 98.173).

(ii) Carbon content of each solid fuel, from the fuel analysis (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(iii) Annual volume of each gaseous fuel (scf) (Equation Q-1).

(iv) Average carbon content of each gaseous fuel, from the fuel analysis results (kg C per kg of fuel) (Equation Q-1).

(v) Molecular weight of each gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (Equation Q-1).

(vi) Annual volume of each liquid fuel (gallons) (Equation Q-1).

(vii) Carbon content of each liquid fuel, from the fuel analysis results (kg C per gallon of fuel) (Equation Q-1).

(viii) Annual mass of the greenball (taconite) pellets fed to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(ix) Carbon content of the greenball (taconite) pellets, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(x) Annual mass of fired pellets produced by the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xi) Carbon content of the fired pellets, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xii) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xiii) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xiv) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xv) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xvi) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xvii) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xviii) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xix) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xx) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xxi) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xxii) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xxiii) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(xxiv) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-1).

(xxv) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-1).

(2) The data in paragraphs (f)(2)(i) through (xxvi) of this section for each applicable basic oxygen process furnace for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual mass of molten iron charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2 of § 98.173).

(ii) Carbon content of the molten iron charged to the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(iii) Annual mass of ferrous scrap charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(iv) Carbon content of the ferrous scrap charged to the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(v) Annual mass of the flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite) charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(vi) Carbon content of the flux materials charged to the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(vii) Annual mass of the carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(viii) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials charged to the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(ix) Annual mass of molten raw steel produced by the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(x) Carbon content of the steel produced by the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xi) Annual mass of slag produced by the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xii) Carbon content of the slag produced by the furnace, from the carbon analysis (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xiii) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected for the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xiv) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue collected for the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xv) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xvi) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xvii) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xviii) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xix) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xx) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xxi) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xxii) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xxiii) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xxiv) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(xxv) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-2).

(xxvi) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-2).

(3) The data in paragraphs (f)(3)(i) through (xviii) of this section for each applicable non-recovery coke oven battery for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual mass of coal charged to the battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3 of § 98.173).

(ii) Carbon content of the coal, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(iii) Annual mass of coke produced by the battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(iv) Carbon content of the coke, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(v) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(vi) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(vii) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(viii) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each battery (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(ix) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(x) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(xi) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(xii) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each battery (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(xiii) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(xiv) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each battery (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(xv) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(xvi) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each battery (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(xvii) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each battery (metric tons) (Equation Q-3).

(xviii) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each battery (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-3).

(4) The data in paragraphs (f)(4)(i) through (xxi) of this section for each applicable sinter process for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual volume of the gaseous fuel (scf) (Equation Q-4 of § 98.173).

(ii) Carbon content of the gaseous fuel, from the fuel analysis results (kg C per kg of fuel) (Equation Q-4).

(iii) Molecular weight of the gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (Equation Q-4).

(iv) Annual mass of sinter feed material (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(v) Carbon content of the mixed sinter feed materials that form the bed entering the sintering machine, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(vi) Annual mass of sinter produced (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(vii) Carbon content of the sinter pellets, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(viii) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(ix) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(x) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each sinter process (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(xi) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each sinter process (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(xii) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each sinter process (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(xiii) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(xiv) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each sinter process (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(xv) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each sinter process (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(xvi) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each sinter process (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(xvii) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each sinter process (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(xviii) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each sinter process (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(xix) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each sinter process (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(xx) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each sinter process (metric tons) (Equation Q-4).

(xxi) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each sinter process (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-4).

(5) The data in paragraphs (f)(5)(i) through (xxxi) of this section for each applicable electric arc furnace for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual mass of direct reduced iron (if any) charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5 of § 98.173).

(ii) Carbon content of the direct reduced iron, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5)

(iii) Annual mass of ferrous scrap charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(iv) Carbon content of the ferrous scrap, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(v) Annual mass of flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite) charged to the furnace (metric tons) (EquationQ-5).

(vi) Carbon content of the flux materials, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(vii) Annual mass of carbon electrode consumed (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(viii) Carbon content of the carbon electrode, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(ix) Annual mass of carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(x) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xi) Annual mass of molten raw steel produced by the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xii) Carbon content of the steel, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xiii) Annual volume of the gaseous fuel (scf at 60F and 1 atm) (Equation Q-5).

(xiv) Average carbon content of the gaseous fuel, from the fuel analysis results (kg C per kg of fuel) (Equation Q-5).

(xv) Molecular weight of the gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (Equation Q-5).

(xvi) Annual mass of slag produced by the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xvii) Carbon content of the slag, from the carbon analysis (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xviii) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xix) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xx) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xxi) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xxii) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xxiii) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xxiv) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xxv) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xxvi) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xxvii) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xxviii) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xxix) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(xxx) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-5).

(xxxi) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-5).

(6) The data in paragraphs (f)(6)(i) through (xvii) of this section for each applicable decarburization vessel for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual mass of molten steel charged to the vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6 of § 98.173).

(ii) Carbon content of the molten steel before decarburization, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(iii) Carbon content of the molten steel after decarburization, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(iv) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(v) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(vi) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each decarburization vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(vii) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each decarburization vessel (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(viii) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each decarburization vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(ix) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(x) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each decarburization vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(xi) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each decarburization vessel (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(xii) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each decarburization vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(xiii) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each decarburization vessel (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(xiv) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each decarburization vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(xv) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each decarburization vessel (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(xvi) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each decarburization vessel (metric tons) (Equation Q-6).

(xvii) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each decarburization vessel (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-6).

(7) The data in paragraphs (f)(7)(i) through (xxvii) of this section for each applicable direct reduction furnace for which the carbon mass balance method of reporting is used.

(i) Annual volume of the gaseous fuel (scf at 68F and 1 atm) (Equation Q-7 of § 98.173).

(ii) Average carbon content of the gaseous fuel, from the fuel analysis results (kg C per kg of fuel) (Equation Q-7).

(iii) Molecular weight of the gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (Equation Q-7).

(iv) Annual mass of iron ore or iron pellets fed to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(v) Carbon content of the iron ore or iron pellets, from the carbon analysis (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(vi) Annual mass of carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(vii) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(viii) Annual mass of each other material charged to the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(ix) Average carbon content of each other material charged to the furnace, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(x) Annual mass of iron produced (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xi) Carbon content of the iron produced, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xii) Annual mass of non-metallic materials produced by the furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xiii) Carbon content of the non-metallic materials produced, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xiv) Annual mass of air pollution control residue collected (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xv) Carbon content of the air pollution control residue collected, from the carbon analysis results (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xvi) Annual mass of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xvii) Carbon content of each other solid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xviii) Annual mass of each other solid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xix) Carbon content of each other solid output containing carbon (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xx) Annual mass of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xxi) Carbon content of each other gaseous input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xxii) Annual mass of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xxiii) Carbon content of each other gaseous output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xxiv) Annual mass of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xxv) Carbon content of each other liquid input containing carbon fed to each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(xxvi) Annual mass of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (metric tons) (Equation Q-7).

(xxvii) Carbon content of each other liquid output containing carbon produced by each furnace (expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation Q-7).

(8) The data in paragraphs (f)(8)(i) and (ii) of this section for each process unit for which the site-specific emission factor method was used.

(i) Average hourly feed or production rate, as applicable, during the test (metric tons/hour) (as used in § 98.173(b)(2)(iii)).

(ii) Annual total feed or production, as applicable (metric tons) (as used in § 98.173(b)(2)(iv)).

(9) Total coal charged to the coke ovens for each process (metric tons/year)(as used in § 98.173(c)).
