
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart R - Lead Production
###### ยง 98.187 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(d)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in ยง 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) Annual mass of lead ore charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1 of ยง 98.183).

(2) Carbon content of the lead ore per furnace, from the carbon analysis results (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).

(3) Annual mass of lead scrap charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).

(4) Carbon content of the lead scrap per furnace, from the carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).

(5) Annual mass of flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite) charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).

(6) Carbon content of the flux materials per furnace, from the carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).

(7) Annual mass of carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to each smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).

(8) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials per furnace, from the carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).

(9) Annual mass of each other material containing carbon, other than fuel, fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into the smelting furnace (tons) (Equation R-1).

(10) Carbon content of each other material, from the carbon analysis results per furnace (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation R-1).
