
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart R - Lead Production
###### § 98.184 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

If you determine process COemissions using the carbon mass balance procedure in § 98.183(b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii), you must meet the requirements specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) Determine the annual mass for each material used for the calculations of annual process COemissions using Equation R-1 of this subpart by summing the monthly mass for the material determined for each month of the calendar year. The monthly mass may be determined using plant instruments used for accounting purposes, including either direct measurement of the quantity of the material placed in the unit or by calculations using process operating information.

(b) For each material identified in paragraph (a) of this section, you must determine the average carbon content of the material consumed or used in the calendar year using the methods specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. If you document that a specific process input or output contributes less than one percent of the total mass of carbon into or out of the process, you do not have to determine the monthly mass or annual carbon content of that input or output.

(1) Information provided by your material supplier.

(2) Collecting and analyzing at least three representative samples of the material each year. The carbon content of the material must be analyzed at least annually using the methods (and their QA/QC procedures) specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) ASTM E1941-04, Standard Test Method for Determination of Carbon in Refractory and Reactive Metals and Their Alloys (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) for analysis of metal ore and alloy product.

(ii) ASTM D5373-08 Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7), for analysis of carbonaceous reducing agents and carbon electrodes.

(iii) ASTM C25-06, Standard Test Methods for Chemical Analysis of Limestone, Quicklime, and Hydrated Lime (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) for analysis of flux materials such as limestone or dolomite.
