
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart R - Lead Production
###### § 98.186 Data reporting procedures.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions according to the requirements in § 98.183(a) or (b)(1), then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by § 98.36 and the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(4) of this section.

(1) Identification number of each smelting furnace.

(2) Annual lead product production capacity (tons).

(3) Annual production for each lead product (tons).

(4) Total number of smelting furnaces at facility used for lead production.

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, and you measure COemissions according to the requirements in § 98.183(b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii), then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(9) of this section.

(1) Identification number of each smelting furnace. (2) Annual process COemissions (in metric tons) from each smelting furnace as determined by Equation R-1 of this subpart.

(3) Annual lead product production capacity for the facility and each smelting furnace(tons).

(4) Annual production for each lead product (tons).

(5) Total number of smelting furnaces at facility used for production of lead products reported in paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(6)-(7) [Reserved]

(8) List the method used for the determination of carbon content for each material used for the calculation of annual process COemissions using Equation R-1 of § 98.183 for each smelting furnace (e.g., supplier provided information, analyses of representative samples you collected).

(9) If you use the missing data procedures in § 98.185(b), you must report how the monthly mass of carbon-containing materials with missing data was determined and the number of months the missing data procedures were used.
