
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart R - Lead Production
###### ยง 98.183 Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process COemissions from each smelting furnace using the procedure in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) For each smelting furnace that meets the conditions specified in ยง 98.33(b)(4)(ii) or (b)(4)(iii), you must calculate and report combined process and combustion COemissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure COemissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(b) For each smelting furnace that is not subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section, calculate and report the process and combustion COemissions from the smelting furnace by using the procedure in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion COemissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure COemissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(2) Calculate and report process and combustion COemissions separately using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(i) For each smelting furnace, determine the annual mass of carbon in each carbon-containing material, other than fuel, that is fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into the smelting furnace and estimate annual process COemissions using Equation R-1 of this section. Carbon-containing materials include carbonaceous reducing agents. If you document that a specific material contributes less than 1 percent of the total carbon into the process, you do not have to include the material in your calculation using Equation R-1 of this section.

(ii) Determine the combined annual process COemissions from the smelting furnaces at your facility using Equation R-2 of this section.

(iii) Calculate and report under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) the combustion COemissions from the smelting furnaces according to the applicable requirements in subpart C.
