
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart S - Lime Manufacturing
###### ยง 98.196 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report under this subpart the relevant information required by ยง 98.36 and the information listed in paragraphs (a)(1) through (8) of this section.

(1) Method used to determine the quantity of lime that is produced and quantity of lime that is sold.

(2) Method used to determine the quantity of calcined lime byproduct or waste sold.

(3) Beginning and end of year inventories for each lime product that is produced, by type.

(4) Beginning and end of year inventories for calcined lime byproducts or wastes sold, by type.

(5) Annual amount of calcined lime byproduct or waste sold, by type (tons).

(6) Annual amount of lime product sold, by type (tons).

(7) Annual amount of calcined lime byproduct or waste that is not sold, by type (tons).

(8) Annual amount of lime product not sold, by type (tons).

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must report the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (21) of this section.

(1) Annual COprocess emissions from all lime kilns combined (metric tons).

(2)-(3) [Reserved]

(4) Standard method used (ASTM or NLA testing method) to determine chemical compositions of each lime type produced and each calcined lime byproduct or waste type.

(5)-(6) [Reserved]

(7) Method used to determine the quantity of lime produced and/or lime sold.

(8) [Reserved]

(9) Method used to determine the quantity of calcined lime byproduct or waste sold.

(10)-(12) [Reserved]

(13) Beginning and end of year inventories for each lime product that is produced.

(14) Beginning and end of year inventories for calcined lime byproducts or wastes sold.

(15) Annual lime production capacity (tons) per facility.

(16) Number of times in the reporting year that missing data procedures were followed to measure lime production (months) or the chemical composition of lime products sold (months).

(17) Indicate whether COwas used on-site (i.e. for use in a purification process). If COwas used on-site, provide the information in paragraphs (b)(17)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The annual amount of COcaptured for use in the on-site process.

(ii) The method used to determine the amount of COcaptured.

(18) Annual quantity (tons) of lime product sold, by type.

(19) Annual average emission factors for each lime product type produced.

(20) Annual average emission factors for each calcined byproduct/waste by lime type that is sold.

(21) Annual average results of chemical composition analysis of each type of lime product produced and calcined byproduct/waste sold.
