
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart S - Lime Manufacturing
###### ยง 98.193 Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process COemissions from all lime kilns combined using the procedure in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section.

(a) If all lime kilns meet the conditions specified in ยง 98.33(b)(4)(ii) or (iii), you must calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion COemissions from all lime kilns by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure COemissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(b) If CEMS are not required to be used to determine COemissions from all lime kilns under paragraph (a) of this section, then you must calculate and report the process and combustion COemissions from the lime kilns by using the procedures in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) Calculate and report under this subpart the combined process and combustion COemissions from all lime kilns by operating and maintaining a CEMS to measure COemissions from all lime kilns according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(2) Calculate and report process and combustion COemissions from all lime kilns separately using the procedures specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (viii) of this section.

(i) You must calculate a monthly emission factor for each type of lime produced using Equation S-1 of this section. Calcium oxide and magnesium oxide content must be analyzed monthly for each lime product type that is produced:

(ii) You must calculate a monthly emission factor for each type of calcined byproduct or waste sold (including lime kiln dust) using Equation S-2 of this section:

(iii) You must calculate the annual COemissions from each type of calcined byproduct or waste that is not sold (including lime kiln dust and scrubber sludge) using Equation S-3 of this section:

(iv) You must calculate annual COprocess emissions for all lime kilns using Equation S-4 of this section:

(v) Calculate and report under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) the combustion COemissions from each lime kiln according to the applicable requirements in subpart C.

(vi) You must calculate an annual average emission factor for each type of lime product produced using Equation S-5 of this section.

(vii) You must calculate an annual average emission factor for each type of calcined byproduct/waste by lime type that is sold using Equation S-6 of this section.

(viii) You must calculate an annual average result of chemical composition analysis of each type of lime product produced and calcined byproduct/waste sold using Equations S-7 through S-10 of this section.
