
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart T - Magnesium Production
###### ยง 98.204 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) For calendar year 2011 monitoring, the facility may submit a request to the Administrator to use one or more best available monitoring methods as listed in ยง 98.3(d)(1)(i) through (iv). The request must be submitted no later than October 12, 2010 and must contain the information in ยง 98.3(d)(2)(ii). To obtain approval, the request must demonstrate to the Administrator's satisfaction that it is not reasonably feasible to acquire, install, and operate a required piece of monitoring equipment by January 1, 2011. The use of best available monitoring methods will not be approved beyond December 31, 2011.

(b) Emissions (consumption) of cover gases and carrier gases may be estimated by monitoring the changes in container weights and inventories using Equation T-1 of this subpart, by monitoring the changes in individual container weights as the contents of each container are used using Equations T-2 and T-3 of this subpart, or by monitoring the mass flow of the pure cover gas or carrier gas into the gas distribution system. Emissions must be estimated at least annually.

(c) When estimating emissions by monitoring the mass flow of the pure cover gas or carrier gas into the gas distribution system, you must use gas flow meters, or mass flow controllers, with an accuracy of 1 percent of full scale or better.
