
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart V - Nitric Acid Production
###### ยง 98.224 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must conduct a new performance test according to a test plan as specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Conduct the performance test annually. The test should be conducted at a point during the campaign which is representative of the average emissions rate from the nitric acid campaigns. Facilities must document the methods used to determine the representative point of the campaign when the performance test is conducted.

(2) Conduct the performance test when your nitric acid production process is changed, specifically when abatement equipment is installed.

(3) If you requested Administrator approval for an alternative method of determining NO emissions under ยง 98.223(a)(2), you must conduct the performance test if your request has not been approved by the Administrator within 150 days of the end of the reporting year in which it was submitted.

(b) You must measure the NO concentration during the performance test using one of the methods in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(1) EPA Method 320 at 40 CFR part 63, appendix A, Measurement of Vapor Phase Organic and Inorganic Emissions by Extractive Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy.

(2) ASTM D6348-03 Standard Test Method for Determination of Gaseous Compounds by Extractive Direct Interface Fourier Transform Infrared (FTIR) Spectroscopy (incorporated by reference in ยง 98.7).

(3) An equivalent method, with Administrator approval.

(c) You must determine the production rate(s) (100 percent acid basis) from each nitric acid train during the performance test according to paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(1) Direct measurement of production and concentration (such as using flow meters, weigh scales, for production and concentration measurements).

(2) Existing plant procedures used for accounting purposes (i.e. dedicated tank-level and acid concentration measurements).

(d) You must determine the volumetric flow rate during the performance test in conjunction with the applicable EPA methods in 40 CFR part 60, appendices A-1 through A-4. Conduct three emissions test runs of 1 hour each. All QA/QC procedures specified in the reference test methods and any associated performance specifications apply. For each test, the facility must prepare an emission factor determination report that must include the items in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section.

(1) Analysis of samples, determination of emissions, and raw data.

(2) All information and data used to derive the emissions factor(s).

(3) The production rate during each test and how it was determined.

(e) You must determine the total monthly amount of nitric acid produced. You must also determine the monthly amount of nitric acid produced while NO abatement technology is operating from each nitric acid train. These monthly amounts are determined according to the methods in paragraphs (c)(1) or (2) of this section.

(f) You must determine the annual amount of nitric acid produced. You must also determine the annual amount of nitric acid produced while NO abatement technology is operating for each nitric acid train. These annual amounts are determined by summing the respective monthly nitric acid quantities determined in paragraph (e) of this section.
