
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart V - Nitric Acid Production
###### § 98.227 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(h)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (10) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (h)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) Annual nitric acid produced from each nitric acid train (tons nitric acid produced, 100% acid basis).

(2) Indicate which equation was used to calculate emissions for each nitric acid train.

(3) NO concentration per test run during the performance test (ppm NO) (Equation V-1 of § 98.223).

(4) Volumetric flow rate of effluent gas per test run during the performance test (dscf/hr) (Equation V-1).

(5) Production rate per test run during the performance test (tons nitric acid produced per hour, 100 percent acid basis) (Equation V-1).

(6) Annual nitric acid production from each nitric acid train during which each NO abatement technology was operational (tons nitric acid produced, 100 percent acid basis) (Equation V-2 of § 98.223).

(7) Destruction efficiency of NO abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of NO removed from vent stream) (Equation V-3a of § 98.223).

(8) Destruction efficiency of each NO abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of NO removed from vent stream) (Equation V-3b of § 98.223).

(9) Destruction efficiency of each NO abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of NO removed from vent stream) (Equation V-3c of § 98.223).

(10) Fraction control factor of each NO abatement technology that is used on each nitric acid train (decimal fraction of total emissions from nitric acid train "t" that are sent to abatement technology "n") (Equation V-3c).
