
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart V - Nitric Acid Production
###### ยง 98.223 Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) You must determine annual NO process emissions from each nitric acid train according to paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section.

(1) Use a site-specific emission factor and production data according to paragraphs (b) through (i) of this section.

(2) Request Administrator approval for an alternative method of determining NO emissions according to paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) If you received Administrator approval for an alternative method of determining NO emissions in the previous reporting year and your methodology is unchanged, your alternative method is automatically approved for the next reporting year.

(ii) You must notify the EPA of your use of a previously approved alternative method in your annual report.

(iii) Otherwise, if you have not received Administrator approval for an alternative method of determining NO emissions in a prior reporting year or your methodology has changed, you must submit the request within the first 30 days of each subsequent reporting year.

(iv) If the Administrator does not approve your requested alternative method within 150 days of the end of the reporting year, you must determine the NO emissions for the current reporting period using the procedures specified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(b) You must conduct an annual performance test for each nitric acid train according to paragraphs (b)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) You must conduct the performance test at the absorber tail gas vent, referred to as the test point, for each nitric acid train according to ยง 98.224(b) through (f). If multiple nitric acid trains exhaust to a common abatement technology and/or emission point, you must sample each process in the ducts before the emissions are combined, sample each process when only one process is operating, or sample the combined emissions when multiple processes are operating and base the site-specific emission factor on the combined production rate of the multiple nitric acid trains.

(2) You must conduct the performance test under normal process operating conditions.

(3) You must measure the production rate during the performance test and calculate the production rate for the test period in tons (100 percent acid basis) per hour.

(c) Using the results of the performance test in paragraph (b) of this section, you must calculate an average site-specific emission factor for each nitric acid train "t" according to Equation V-1 of this section:

(d) If nitric acid train "t" exhausts to any NO abatement technology "N", you must determine the destruction efficiency for each NO abatement technology "N" according to paragraphs (d)(1), (2), or (3) of this section.

(1) Use the manufacturer's specified destruction efficiency.

(2) Estimate the destruction efficiency through process knowledge. Examples of information that could constitute process knowledge include calculations based on material balances, process stoichiometry, or previous test results provided the results are still relevant to the current vent stream conditions. You must document how process knowledge (if applicable) was used to determine the destruction efficiency.

(3) Calculate the destruction efficiency by conducting an additional performance test on the emissions stream following the NO abatement technology.

(e) If nitric acid train "t" exhausts to any NO abatement technology "N", you must determine the annual amount of nitric acid produced on nitric acid train "t" while NO abatement technology "N" is operating according to ยง 98.224(f). Then you must calculate the abatement utilization factor for each NO abatement technology "N" for each nitric acid train "t" according to Equation V-2 of this section.

(f) [Reserved]

(g) You must calculate NO emissions for each nitric acid train "t" according to paragraph (g)(1), (g)(2), (g)(3), or (g)(4) of this section.

(1) If nitric acid train "t" exhausts to one NO abatement technology "N" after the test point, you must use the emissions factor (determined in Equation V-1 of this section), the destruction efficiency (determined in paragraph (d) of this section), the annual nitric acid production (determined in paragraph (i) of this section), and the abatement utilization factor (determined in paragraph (e) of this section) according to Equation V-3a of this section:

(2) If multiple NO abatement technologies are located in series after your test point, you must use the emissions factor (determined in Equation V-1 of this section), the destruction efficiency (determined in paragraph (d) of this section), the annual nitric acid production (determined in paragraph (i) of this section), and the abatement utilization factor (determined in paragraph (e) of this section), according to Equation V-3b of this section:

(3) If multiple NO abatement technologies are located in parallel after your test point, you must use the emissions factor (determined in Equation V-1 of this section), the destruction efficiency (determined in paragraph (d) of this section), the annual nitric acid production (determined in paragraph (i) of this section), and the abatement utilization factor (determined in paragraph (e) of this section), according to Equation V-3c of this section:

(4) If nitric acid train "t" does not exhaust to any NO abatement technology after the test point, you must use the emissions factor (determined in Equation V-1 of this section), and the annual nitric acid production (determined in paragraph (i) of this section) according to Equation V-3b of this section:

(h) You must determine the annual nitric acid production emissions combined from all nitric acid trains at your facility using Equation V-4 of this section:

(i) You must determine the total annual amount of nitric acid produced on each nitric acid train "t" (tons acid produced, 100 percent acid basis), according to ยง 98.224(f).
