
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.232 GHGs to report.

(a) You must report CO, CH, and NO emissions from each industry segment specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) and (m) of this section, CO, CH, and NO emissions from each flare as specified in paragraphs (b) through (j) of this section, and stationary and portable combustion emissions as applicable as specified in paragraph (k) of this section.

(b) For offshore petroleum and natural gas production, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from equipment leaks, vented emission, and flare emission source types as identified in the data collection and emissions estimation study conducted by BOEMRE in compliance with 30 CFR 250.302 through 304. Offshore platforms do not need to report portable emissions.

(c) For an onshore petroleum and natural gas production facility, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from only the following source types on a single well-pad or associated with a single well-pad:

(1) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Natural gas driven pneumatic pump venting.

(4) Well venting for liquids unloading.

(5) Gas well venting during well completions without hydraulic fracturing.

(6) Well venting during well completions with hydraulic fracturing that have a GOR of 300 scf/STB or greater (oil here refers to hydrocarbon liquids produced of all API gravities).

(7) Gas well venting during well workovers without hydraulic fracturing.

(8) Well venting during well workovers with hydraulic fracturing that have a GOR of 300 scf/STB or greater (oil here refers to hydrocarbon liquids produced of all API gravities).

(9) Flare stack emissions.

(10) Storage tanks vented emissions from produced hydrocarbons.

(11) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(12) Well testing venting and flaring.

(13) Associated gas venting and flaring from produced hydrocarbons.

(14) Dehydrator vents.

(15) [Reserved]

(16) EOR injection pump blowdown.

(17) Acid gas removal vents.

(18) EOR hydrocarbon liquids dissolved CO.

(19) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(20) [Reserved]

(21) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, pumps, flanges, and other components (such as instruments, loading arms, stuffing boxes, compressor seals, dump lever arms, and breather caps, but does not include components listed in paragraph (c)(11) or (19) of this section, and it does not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel).

(22) You must use the methods in § 98.233(z) and report under this subpart the emissions of CO, CH, and NO from stationary or portable fuel combustion equipment that cannot move on roadways under its own power and drive train, and that is located at an onshore petroleum and natural gas production facility as defined in § 98.238. Stationary or portable equipment are the following equipment, which are integral to the extraction, processing, or movement of oil or natural gas: well drilling and completion equipment, workover equipment, natural gas dehydrators, natural gas compressors, electrical generators, steam boilers, and process heaters.

(d) For onshore natural gas processing, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following sources:

(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(3) Blowdown vent stacks.

(4) Dehydrator vents.

(5) Acid gas removal vents.

(6) Flare stack emissions.

(7) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters.

(e) For onshore natural gas transmission compression, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following sources:

(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(3) Transmission storage tanks.

(4) Blowdown vent stacks.

(5) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.

(6) Flare stack emissions.

(7) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters.

(8) Equipment leaks from all other components that are not listed in paragraph (e)(1), (2), or (7) of this section and are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7). The other components subject to this paragraph (e)(8) also do not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel. If these other components are not subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you may also elect to report emissions from these other components if you elect to survey them using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5).

(f) For underground natural gas storage, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following sources:

(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(3) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.

(4) Flare stack emissions.

(5) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, and meters associated with storage stations.

(6) Equipment leaks from all other components that are associated with storage stations, are not listed in paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (5) of this section, and are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7). If these other components are not subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you may also elect to report emissions from these other components if you elect to survey them using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5).

(7) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open-ended lines, and pressure relief valves associated with storage wellheads.

(8) Equipment leaks from all other components that are associated with storage wellheads, are not listed in paragraph (f)(1), (2), or (7) of this section, and are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a, of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7). If these other components are not subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you may also elect to report emissions from these other components if you elect to survey them using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5).

(g) For LNG storage, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following sources:

(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(3) Flare stack emissions.

(4) Equipment leaks from valves, pump seals, connectors, and other equipment leak sources in LNG service.

(5) Equipment leaks from vapor recovery compressors, if you do not survey components associated with vapor recovery compressors in accordance with paragraph (g)(6) of this section.

(6) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, and that are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).

(7) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are not associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (g)(1) or (2) of this section, and are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7). If these components are not subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you may also elect to report emissions from these components if you elect to survey them using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5).

(h) LNG import and export equipment, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following sources:

(1) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(2) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(3) Blowdown vent stacks.

(4) Flare stack emissions.

(5) Equipment leaks from valves, pump seals, connectors, and other equipment leak sources in LNG service.

(6) Equipment leaks from vapor recovery compressors, if you do not survey components associated with vapor recovery compressors in accordance with paragraph (h)(7) of this section.

(7) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section, and that are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a).

(8) Equipment leaks from all components in gas service that are not associated with a vapor recovery compressor, are not listed in paragraph (h)(1) or (2) of this section, and that are either subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter or you elect to survey using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7). If these components are not subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you may also elect to report emissions from these components if you elect to survey them using a leak detection method described in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5).

(i) For natural gas distribution, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following sources:

(1) Equipment leaks from connectors, block valves, control valves, pressure relief valves, orifice meters, regulators, and open-ended lines at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.

(2) Equipment leaks at below grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.

(3) Equipment leaks at above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.

(4) Equipment leaks at below grade metering-regulating stations.

(5) Distribution main equipment leaks.

(6) Distribution services equipment leaks.

(7) Report under subpart W of this part the emissions of CO, CH, and NO emissions from stationary fuel combustion sources following the methods in § 98.233(z).

(j) For an onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facility, report CO, CH, and NO emissions from the following source types:

(1) Natural gas pneumatic device venting.

(2) Natural gas driven pneumatic pump venting.

(3) Acid gas removal vents.

(4) Dehydrator vents.

(5) Blowdown vent stacks.

(6) Storage tank vented emissions.

(7) Flare stack emissions.

(8) Centrifugal compressor venting.

(9) Reciprocating compressor venting.

(10) Equipment leaks from valves, connectors, open ended lines, pressure relief valves, pumps, flanges, and other components (such as instruments, loading arms, stuffing boxes, compressor seals, dump lever arms, and breather caps, but does not include components in paragraph (j)(8) or (9) of this section, and it does not include thief hatches or other openings on a storage vessel).

(11) Gathering pipeline equipment leaks.

(12) You must use the methods in § 98.233(z) and report under this subpart the emissions of CO, CH, and NO from stationary or portable fuel combustion equipment that cannot move on roadways under its own power and drive train, and that is located at an onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facility as defined in § 98.238. Stationary or portable equipment includes the following equipment, which are integral to the movement of natural gas: Natural gas dehydrators, natural gas compressors, electrical generators, steam boilers, and process heaters.

(k) Report under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) the emissions of CO, CH, and NO from each stationary fuel combustion unit by following the requirements of subpart C except for facilities under onshore petroleum and natural gas production, onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting, and natural gas distribution. Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities must report stationary and portable combustion emissions as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Natural gas distribution facilities must report stationary combustion emissions as specified in paragraph (i) of this section. Onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must report stationary and portable combustion emissions as specified in paragraph (j) of this section.

(l) You must report under subpart PP of this part (Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide), COemissions captured and transferred off site by following the requirements of subpart PP.

(m) For onshore natural gas transmission pipeline, report pipeline blowdown COand CHemissions from blowdown vent stacks.
