
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Method 4.

(4)If CEMS or a vent meter is not installed, you may calculate emissions using any standard simulation software package, such as AspenTech HYSYS&#xAE;, or API 4679 AMINECalc, that uses the Peng-Robinson equation of state and speciates COemissions. A minimum of the following, determined for typical operating conditions over the calendar year by engineering estimate and process knowledge based on best available data, must be used to characterize emissions:

(i) Natural gas feed temperature, pressure, and flow rate.

(ii) Acid gas content of feed natural gas.

(iii) Acid gas content of outlet natural gas.

(iv) Unit operating hours, excluding downtime for maintenance or standby.

(v) Exit temperature of natural gas.

(vi) Solvent pressure, temperature, circulation rate, and weight.

(5) For Calculation Method 3, determine the gas flow rate of the inlet when using Equation W-4A of this section or the gas flow rate of the outlet when using Equation W-4B of this section for the natural gas stream of an AGR unit using a meter according to methods set forth in § 98.234(b). If you do not have a continuous flow meter, either install a continuous flow meter or use an engineering calculation to determine the flow rate.

(6) For Calculation Method 2, if a continuous gas analyzer is not available on the vent stack, either install a continuous gas analyzer or take quarterly gas samples from the vent gas stream for each quarter that the AGR unit is operating to determine Volin Equation W-3 of this section, according to the methods set forth in § 98.234(b).

(7) For Calculation Method 3, if a continuous gas analyzer is installed on the inlet gas stream, then the continuous gas analyzer results must be used. If a continuous gas analyzer is not available, either install a continuous gas analyzer or take quarterly gas samples from the inlet gas stream for each quarter that the AGR unit is operating to determine Volin Equation W-4A or W-4B of this section, according to the methods set forth in § 98.234(b).

(8) For Calculation Method 3, determine annual average volumetric fraction of COcontent in natural gas flowing out of the AGR unit using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (d)(8)(i) through (d)(8)(iii) of this section.

(i) If a continuous gas analyzer is installed on the outlet gas stream, then the continuous gas analyzer results must be used. If a continuous gas analyzer is not available, you may install a continuous gas analyzer.

(ii) If a continuous gas analyzer is not available or installed, quarterly gas samples may be taken from the outlet gas stream for each quarter that the AGR unit is operating to determine Volin Equation W-4A or W-4B of this section, according to the methods set forth in § 98.234(b).

(iii) If a continuous gas analyzer is not available or installed, you may use the outlet pipeline quality specification for COin natural gas.

(9) Calculate annual volumetric COemissions at standard conditions using calculations in paragraph (t) of this section.

(10) Calculate annual mass COemissions using calculations in paragraph (v) of this section.

(11) Determine if COemissions from the AGR unit are recovered and transferred outside the facility. Adjust the COemissions estimated in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(10) of this section downward by the magnitude of COemissions recovered and transferred outside the facility.
