
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Natural gas pneumatic device venting.

(a)Calculate CHand COvolumetric emissions from continuous high bleed, continuous low bleed, and intermittent bleed natural gas pneumatic devices using Equation W-1 of this section.

(1) For all industry segments, determine "Count" for Equation W-1 of this subpart for each type of natural gas pneumatic device (continuous high bleed, continuous low bleed, and intermittent bleed) by counting the devices, except as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The reported number of devices must represent the total number of devices for the reporting year.

(2) For the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment, you have the option in the first two consecutive calendar years to determine "Count" for Equation W-1 of this section for each type of natural gas pneumatic device (continuous high bleed, continuous low bleed, and intermittent bleed) using engineering estimates based on best available data. For the onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segment, you have the option in the first two consecutive calendar years to determine "Count" for Equation W-1 for each type of natural gas pneumatic device (continuous high bleed, continuous low bleed, and intermittent bleed) using engineering estimates based on best available data.

(3) For all industry segments, determine the type of pneumatic device using engineering estimates based on best available information.

(4) Calculate both CHand COmass emissions from volumetric emissions using calculations in paragraph (v) of this section.

(b) [Reserved]
