
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Well venting during completions and workovers with hydraulic fracturing.

(g)Calculate annual volumetric natural gas emissions from gas well and oil well venting during completions and workovers involving hydraulic fracturing using Equation W-10A or Equation W-10B of this section. Equation W-10A applies to well venting when the gas flowback rate is measured from a specified number of example completions or workovers and Equation W-10B applies when the gas flowback vent or flare volume is measured for each completion or workover. Completion and workover activities are separated into two periods, an initial period when flowback is routed to open pits or tanks and a subsequent period when gas content is sufficient to route the flowback to a separator or when the gas content is sufficient to allow measurement by the devices specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section, regardless of whether a separator is actually utilized. If you elect to use Equation W-10A, you must follow the procedures specified in paragraph (g)(1). If you elect to use Equation W-10B, you must use a recording flow meter installed on the vent line, downstream of a separator and ahead of a flare or vent, to measure the gas flowback. For either equation, emissions must be calculated separately for completions and workovers, for each sub-basin, and for each well type combination identified in paragraph (g)(2) of this section. You must calculate CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions as specified in paragraph (g)(3) of this section. If emissions from well venting during completions and workovers with hydraulic fracturing are routed to a flare, you must calculate CH, CO, and NO annual emissions as specified in paragraph (g)(4) of this section.

(1) If you elect to use Equation W-10A of this section on gas wells, you must use Calculation Method 1 as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(i) of this section, or Calculation Method 2 as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this section, to determine the value of FRMand FRM. If you elect to use Equation W-10A of this section on oil wells, you must use Calculation Method 1 as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(i) to determine the value of FRMand FRM. These values must be based on the flow rate for flowback gases, once sufficient gas is present to enable separation. The number of measurements or calculations required to estimate FRMand FRMmust be determined individually for completions and workovers per sub-basin and well type combination as follows: Complete measurements or calculations for at least one completion or workover for less than or equal to 25 completions or workovers for each well type combination within a sub-basin; complete measurements or calculations for at least two completions or workovers for 26 to 50 completions or workovers for each sub-basin and well type combination; complete measurements or calculations for at least three completions or workovers for 51 to 100 completions or workovers for each sub-basin and well type combination; complete measurements or calculations for at least four completions or workovers for 101 to 250 completions or workovers for each sub-basin and well type combination; and complete measurements or calculations for at least five completions or workovers for greater than 250 completions or workovers for each sub-basin and well type combination.
