
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Method 3.

(3)For dehydrators of any size that use desiccant, you must calculate emissions from the amount of gas vented from the vessel when it is depressurized for the desiccant refilling process using Equation W-6 of this section. Desiccant dehydrator emissions covered in this paragraph do not have to be calculated separately using the method specified in paragraph (i) of this section for blowdown vent stacks.

(4) For glycol dehydrators that use the calculation method in paragraph (e)(2) of this section, calculate both CHand COmass emissions from volumetric GHGemissions using calculations in paragraph (v) of this section. For desiccant dehydrators that use the calculation method in paragraph (e)(3) of this section, calculate both CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions from volumetric natural gas emissions using calculations in paragraphs (u) and (v) of this section.

(5) Determine if the dehydrator unit has vapor recovery. Adjust the emissions estimated in paragraphs (e)(1), (2), and (3) of this section downward by the magnitude of emissions recovered using a vapor recovery system as determined by engineering estimate based on best available data.

(6) Calculate annual emissions from dehydrator vents to flares or regenerator fire-box/fire tubes as follows:

(i) Use the dehydrator vent volume and gas composition as determined in paragraphs (e)(1) through (5) of this section, as applicable.

(ii) Use the calculation method of flare stacks in paragraph (n) of this section to determine dehydrator vent emissions from the flare or regenerator combustion gas vent.
