
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Method 1.,e.g.,

(1)Calculate emissions from wells with plunger lifts and wells without plunger lifts separately. For at least one well of each unique well tubing diameter group and pressure group combination in each sub-basin category (see ยง 98.238 for the definitions of tubing diameter group, pressure group, and sub-basin category), where gas wells are vented to the atmosphere to expel liquids accumulated in the tubing, install a recording flow meter on the vent line used to vent gas from the well (on the vent line off the wellhead separator or atmospheric storage tank) according to methods set forth in ยง 98.234(b). Calculate the total emissions from well venting to the atmosphere for liquids unloading using Equation W-7A of this section. For any tubing diameter group and pressure group combination in a sub-basin where liquids unloading occurs both with and without plunger lifts, Equation W-7A will be used twice, once for wells with plunger lifts and once for wells without plunger lifts.

(i) Determine the well vent average flow rate ("FR" in Equation W-7A of this section) as specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section for at least one well in a unique well tubing diameter group and pressure group combination in each sub-basin category. Calculate emissions from wells with plunger lifts and wells without plunger lifts separately.

(A) Calculate the average flow rate per hour of venting for each unique tubing diameter group and pressure group combination in each sub-basin category by dividing the recorded total annual flow by the recorded time (in hours) for all measured liquid unloading events with venting to the atmosphere.

(B) Apply the average hourly flow rate calculated under paragraph (f)(1)(i)(A) of this section to all wells in the same pressure group that have the same tubing diameter group, for the number of hours of venting these wells.

(C) Calculate a new average flow rate every other calendar year starting with the first calendar year of data collection. For a new producing sub-basin category, calculate an average flow rate beginning in the first year of production.

(ii) Calculate natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in paragraph (t) of this section.
