
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Method 2 (for gas wells).

(ii)You must use Equation W-12A as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(iii) of this section to determine the value of FRM. You must use Equation W-12B as specified in paragraph (g)(1)(iv) of this section to determine the value of FRM. The procedures specified in paragraphs (g)(1)(v) and (vi) also apply. When calculating the flowback rates for use in Equations W-12A and W-12B of this section based on well parameters, you must record the well flowing pressure immediately upstream (and immediately downstream in subsonic flow) of a well choke according to methods set forth in ยง 98.234(b) to calculate the well flowback. The upstream pressure must be surface pressure and reservoir pressure cannot be assumed. The downstream pressure must be measured after the choke and atmospheric pressure cannot be assumed. Calculate flowback rate using Equation W-11A of this section for subsonic flow or Equation W-11B of this section for sonic flow. You must use best engineering estimates based on best available data along with Equation W-11C of this section to determine whether the predominant flow is sonic or subsonic. If the value of R in Equation W-11C of this section is greater than or equal to 2, then flow is sonic; otherwise, flow is subsonic. Convert calculated FRvalues from actual conditions upstream of the restriction orifice to standard conditions (FRand FR) for use in Equations W-12A and W-12B of this section using Equation W-33 in paragraph (t) of this section.

(iii) For Equation W-10A of this section, calculate FRMusing Equation W-12A of this section.

(iv) For Equation W-10A of this section, calculate FRMusing Equation W-12B of this section.

(v) For Equation W-10A of this section, the ratio of gas flowback rate during well completions and workovers from hydraulic fracturing to 30-day gas production rate are applied to all well completions and well workovers, respectively, in the sub-basin and well type combination for the total number of hours of flowback and for the first 30 day average gas production rate for each of these wells.

(vi) For Equations W-12A and W-12B of this section, calculate new flowback rates for well completions and well workovers in each sub-basin and well type combination once every two years starting in the first calendar year of data collection.

(vii) For oil wells where the gas production rate is not metered and you elect to use Equation W-10A of this section, calculate the average gas production rate (PR) using Equation W-12C of this section. If GOR cannot be determined from your available data, then you must use one of the procedures specified in paragraph (g)(1)(vii)(A) or (B) of this section to determine GOR. If GOR from each well is not available, use the GOR from a cluster of wells in the same sub-basin category.

(A) You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists.

(B) You may use an industry standard practice as described in ยง 98.234(b).

(2) For paragraphs (g) introductory text and (g)(1) of this section, measurements and calculations are completed separately for workovers and completions per sub-basin and well type combination. A well type combination is a unique combination of the parameters listed in paragraphs (g)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Vertical or horizontal (directional drilling).

(ii) With flaring or without flaring.

(iii) Reduced emission completion/workover or not reduced emission completion/workover.

(iv) Oil well or gas well.

(3) Calculate both CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions from total natural gas volumetric emissions using calculations in paragraphs (u) and (v) of this section.

(4) Calculate annual emissions from well venting during well completions and workovers from hydraulic fracturing where all or a portion of the gas is flared as specified in paragraphs (g)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Use the volumetric total natural gas emissions vented to the atmosphere during well completions and workovers as determined in paragraph (g) of this section to calculate volumetric and mass emissions using paragraphs (u) and (v) of this section.

(ii) Use the calculation method of flare stacks in paragraph (n) of this section to adjust emissions for the portion of gas flared during well completions and workovers using hydraulic fracturing. This adjustment to emissions from completions using flaring, versus completions without flaring, accounts for the conversion of CHto COin the flare and for the formation on NO during flaring.
