
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Onshore production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting storage tanks.,e.g.,

(j)Calculate CH, CO, and NO (when flared) emissions from atmospheric pressure fixed roof storage tanks receiving hydrocarbon produced liquids from onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities (including stationary liquid storage not owned or operated by the reporter), as specified in this paragraph (j). For gas-liquid separators or onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting non-separator equipment (stabilizers, slug catchers) with annual average daily throughput of oil greater than or equal to 10 barrels per day, calculate annual CHand COusing Calculation Method 1 or 2 as specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section. For wells flowing directly to atmospheric storage tanks without passing through a separator with throughput greater than or equal to 10 barrels per day, calculate annual CHand COemissions using Calculation Method 2 as specified in paragraph (j)(2) of this section. For hydrocarbon liquids flowing to gas-liquid separators or non-separator equipment or directly to atmospheric storage tanks with throughput less than 10 barrels per day, use Calculation Method 3 as specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section. If you use Calculation Method 1 or Calculation Method 2 for separators, you must also calculate emissions that may have occurred due to dump valves not closing properly using the method specified in paragraph (j)(6) of this section. If emissions from atmospheric pressure fixed roof storage tanks are routed to a vapor recovery system, you must adjust the emissions downward according to paragraph (j)(4) of this section. If emissions from atmospheric pressure fixed roof storage tanks are routed to a flare, you must calculate CH, CO, and NO annual emissions as specified in paragraph (j)(5) of this section.
