
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Method 1.

(1)Calculate annual CHand COemissions from onshore production storage tanks and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting storage tanks using operating conditions in the last gas-liquid separator or non-separator equipment before liquid transfer to storage tanks. Calculate flashing emissions with a software program, such as AspenTech HYSYS&#xAE; or API 4697 E&P Tank, that uses the Peng-Robinson equation of state, models flashing emissions, and speciates CHand COemissions that will result when the oil from the separator or non-separator equipment enters an atmospheric pressure storage tank. The following parameters must be determined for typical operating conditions over the year by engineering estimate and process knowledge based on best available data, and must be used at a minimum to characterize emissions from liquid transferred to tanks:

(i) Separator or non-separator equipment temperature.

(ii) Separator or non-separator equipment pressure.

(iii) Sales oil or stabilized oil API gravity.

(iv) Sales oil or stabilized oil production rate.

(v) Ambient air temperature.

(vi) Ambient air pressure.

(vii) Separator or non-separator equipment oil composition and Reid vapor pressure. If this data is not available, determine these parameters by using one of the methods described in paragraphs (j)(1)(vii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) If separator or non-separator equipment oil composition and Reid vapor pressure default data are provided with the software program, select the default values that most closely match your separator or non-separator equipment pressure first, and API gravity secondarily.

(B) If separator or non-separator equipment oil composition and Reid vapor pressure data are available through your previous analysis, select the latest available analysis that is representative of produced crude oil or condensate from the sub-basin category for onshore petroleum and natural gas production or from the county for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting.

(C) Analyze a representative sample of separator or non-separator equipment oil in each sub-basin category for onshore petroleum and natural gas production or each county for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting for oil composition and Reid vapor pressure using an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.
