
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Gas well venting during completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing.

(h)Calculate annual volumetric natural gas emissions from each gas well venting during workovers without hydraulic fracturing using Equation W-13A of this section. Calculate annual volumetric natural gas emissions from each gas well venting during completions without hydraulic fracturing using Equation W-13B of this section. You must convert annual volumetric natural gas emissions to CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions as specified in paragraph (h)(1) of this section. If emissions from gas well venting during completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing are routed to a flare, you must calculate CH, CO, and NO annual emissions as specified in paragraph (h)(2) of this section.

(1) Calculate both CHand COvolumetric emissions from natural gas volumetric emissions using calculations in paragraph (u) of this section. Calculate both CHand COmass emissions from volumetric emissions vented to atmosphere using calculations in paragraph (v) of this section.

(2) Calculate annual emissions of CH, CO, and NO from gas well venting to flares during well completions and workovers not involving hydraulic fracturing as specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Use the gas well venting volume and gas composition during well completions and workovers that are flared as determined using the methods specified in paragraphs (h) and (h)(1) of this section.

(ii) Use the calculation method of flare stacks in paragraph (n) of this section to determine emissions from the flare for gas well venting to a flare during completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing.
