
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### General requirements for conducting volumetric emission measurements.

(1)You must conduct volumetric emission measurements on each centrifugal compressor as specified in this paragraph. Compressor sources (as defined in § 98.238) without manifolded vents must use a measurement method specified in paragraph (o)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section. Manifolded compressor sources (as defined in § 98.238) must use a measurement method specified in paragraph (o)(1)(i), (ii), (iii), or (iv) of this section.

(i) Centrifugal compressor source as found measurements. Measure venting from each compressor according to either paragraph (o)(1)(i)(A) or (B) of this section at least once annually, based on the compressor mode (as defined in § 98.238) in which the compressor was found at the time of measurement, except as specified in paragraphs (o)(1)(i)(C) and (D) of this section. If additional measurements beyond the required annual testing are performed (including duplicate measurements or measurement of additional operating modes), then all measurements satisfying the applicable monitoring and QA/QC that is required by this paragraph (o) must be used in the calculations specified in this section.

(A) For a compressor measured in operating-mode, you must measure volumetric emissions from blowdown valve leakage through the blowdown vent as specified in either paragraph (o)(2)(i)(A) or (B) of this section and, if the compressor has wet seal oil degassing vents, measure volumetric emissions from wet seal oil degassing vents as specified in paragraph (o)(2)(ii) of this section.

(B) For a compressor measured in not-operating-depressurized-mode, you must measure volumetric emissions from isolation valve leakage as specified in either paragraph (o)(2)(i)(A), (B), or (C) of this section. If a compressor is not operated and has blind flanges in place throughout the reporting period, measurement is not required in this compressor mode.

(C) You must measure the compressor as specified in paragraph (o)(1)(i)(B) of this section at least once in any three consecutive calendar years, provided the measurement can be taken during a scheduled shutdown. If three consecutive calendar years occur without measuring the compressor in not-operating-depressurized-mode, you must measure the compressor as specified in paragraph (o)(1)(i)(B) of this section at the next scheduled depressurized shutdown. The requirement specified in this paragraph does not apply if the compressor has blind flanges in place throughout the reporting year. For purposes of this paragraph, a scheduled shutdown means a shutdown that requires a compressor to be taken off-line for planned or scheduled maintenance. A scheduled shutdown does not include instances when a compressor is taken offline due to a decrease in demand but must remain available.

(D) An annual as found measurement is not required in the first year of operation for any new compressor that begins operation after as found measurements have been conducted for all existing compressors. For only the first year of operation of new compressors, calculate emissions according to paragraph (o)(6)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Centrifugal compressor source continuous monitoring. Instead of measuring the compressor source according to paragraph (o)(1)(i) of this section for a given compressor, you may elect to continuously measure volumetric emissions from a compressor source as specified in paragraph (o)(3) of this section.

(iii) Manifolded centrifugal compressor source as found measurements. For a compressor source that is part of a manifolded group of compressor sources (as defined in § 98.238), instead of measuring the compressor source according to paragraph (o)(1)(i), (ii), or (iv) of this section, you may elect to measure combined volumetric emissions from the manifolded group of compressor sources by conducting measurements at the common vent stack as specified in paragraph (o)(4) of this section. The measurements must be conducted at the frequency specified in paragraphs (o)(1)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) A minimum of one measurement must be taken for each manifolded group of compressor sources in a calendar year.

(B) The measurement may be performed while the compressors are in any compressor mode.

(iv) Manifolded centrifugal compressor source continuous monitoring. For a compressor source that is part of a manifolded group of compressor sources, instead of measuring the compressor source according to paragraph (o)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this section, you may elect to continuously measure combined volumetric emissions from the manifolded group of compressor sources as specified in paragraph (o)(5) of this section.
