
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Well testing venting and flaring.

(l)Calculate CHand COannual emissions from well testing venting as specified in paragraphs (l)(1) through (5) of this section. If emissions from well testing venting are routed to a flare, you must calculate CH, CO, and NO annual emissions as specified in paragraph (l)(6) of this section.

(1) Determine the gas to oil ratio (GOR) of the hydrocarbon production from oil well(s) tested. Determine the production rate from gas well(s) tested.

(2) If GOR cannot be determined from your available data, then you must measure quantities reported in this section according to one of the procedures specified in paragraph (l)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section to determine GOR.

(i) You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists.

(ii) You may use an industry standard practice as described in ยง 98.234(b).

(3) Estimate venting emissions using Equation W-17A (for oil wells) or Equation W-17B (for gas wells) of this section.

(4) Calculate natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in paragraph (t) of this section.

(5) Calculate both CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions from natural gas volumetric emissions using calculations in paragraphs (u) and (v) of this section.

(6) Calculate emissions from well testing if emissions are routed to a flare as specified in paragraphs (l)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Use the well testing emissions volume and gas composition as determined in paragraphs (l)(1) through (4) of this section.

(ii) Use the calculation method of flare stacks in paragraph (n) of this section to determine well testing emissions from the flare.
