
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Flare stack emissions.

(n)Calculate CO, CH, and NO emissions from a flare stack as specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) If you have a continuous flow measurement device on the flare, you must use the measured flow volumes to calculate the flare gas emissions. If all of the flare gas is not measured by the existing flow measurement device, then the flow not measured can be estimated using engineering calculations based on best available data or company records. If you do not have a continuous flow measurement device on the flare, you can use engineering calculations based on process knowledge, company records, and best available data.

(2) If you have a continuous gas composition analyzer on gas to the flare, you must use these compositions in calculating emissions. If you do not have a continuous gas composition analyzer on gas to the flare, you must use the appropriate gas compositions for each stream of hydrocarbons going to the flare as specified in paragraphs (n)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) For onshore natural gas production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting, determine the GHG mole fraction using paragraph (u)(2)(i) of this section.

(ii) For onshore natural gas processing, when the stream going to flare is natural gas, use the GHG mole fraction in feed natural gas for all streams upstream of the de-methanizer or dew point control, and GHG mole fraction in facility specific residue gas to transmission pipeline systems for all emissions sources downstream of the de-methanizer overhead or dew point control for onshore natural gas processing facilities. For onshore natural gas processing plants that solely fractionate a liquid stream, use the GHG mole fraction in feed natural gas liquid for all streams.

(iii) For any industry segment required to report to flare stack emissions under ยง 98.232, when the stream going to the flare is a hydrocarbon product stream, such as methane, ethane, propane, butane, pentane-plus and mixed light hydrocarbons, then you may use a representative composition from the source for the stream determined by engineering calculation based on process knowledge and best available data.

(3) Determine flare combustion efficiency from manufacturer. If not available, assume that flare combustion efficiency is 98 percent.

(4) Convert GHG volumetric emissions to standard conditions using calculations in paragraph (t) of this section.

(5) Calculate GHG volumetric emissions from flaring at standard conditions using Equations W-19 and W-20 of this section.

(6) Calculate both CHand COmass emissions from volumetric emissions using calculation in paragraph (v) of this section.

(7) Calculate NO emissions from flare stacks using Equation W-40 in paragraph (z) of this section.

(8) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that has both a COconcentration monitor and volumetric flow rate monitor for the combustion gases from the flare, you must calculate only COemissions for the flare. You must follow the Tier 4 Calculation Method and all associated calculation, quality assurance, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). If a CEMS is used to calculate flare stack emissions, the requirements specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (7) of this section are not required.

(9) The flare emissions determined under this paragraph (n) must be corrected for flare emissions calculated and reported under other paragraphs of this section to avoid double counting of these emissions.
