
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Associated gas venting and flaring.

(m)Calculate CHand COannual emissions from associated gas venting not in conjunction with well testing (refer to paragraph (l): Well testing venting and flaring of this section) as specified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (4) of this section. If emissions from associated gas venting are routed to a flare, you must calculate CH, CO, and NO annual emissions as specified in paragraph (m)(5) of this section.

(1) Determine the GOR of the hydrocarbon production from each well whose associated natural gas is vented or flared. If GOR from each well is not available, use the GOR from a cluster of wells in the same sub-basin category.

(2) If GOR cannot be determined from your available data, then you must use one of the procedures specified in paragraphs (m)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section to determine GOR.

(i) You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists.

(ii) You may use an industry standard practice as described in ยง 98.234(b).

(3) Estimate venting emissions using Equation W-18 of this section.

(4) Calculate both CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions from volumetric natural gas emissions using calculations in paragraphs (u) and (v) of this section.

(5) Calculate emissions from associated natural gas if emissions are routed to a flare as specified in paragraphs (m)(5)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Use the associated natural gas volume and gas composition as determined in paragraph (m)(1) through (4) of this section.

(ii) Use the calculation method of flare stacks in paragraph (n) of this section to determine associated gas emissions from the flare.
