
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Method for calculating volumetric GHG emissions from as found measurements for individual reciprocating compressor sources.

(6)For compressor sources measured according to paragraph (p)(1)(i) of this section, you must calculate GHG emissions from the compressor sources as specified in paragraphs (p)(6)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Using Equation W-26 of this section, calculate the annual volumetric GHG emissions for each reciprocating compressor mode-source combination specified in paragraphs (p)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section that was measured during the reporting year.

(ii) Using Equation W-27 of this section, calculate the annual volumetric GHG emissions from each reciprocating compressor mode-source combination specified in paragraph (p)(1)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section that was not measured during the reporting year.

(iii) Using Equation W-28 of this section, develop an emission factor for each compressor mode-source combination specified in paragraph (p)(1)(i)(A), (B), and (C) of this section. These emission factors must be calculated annually and used in Equation W-27 of this section to determine volumetric emissions from a reciprocating compressor in the mode-source combinations that were not measured in the reporting year.

(iv) The reporter emission factor in Equation W-28 of this section may be calculated by using all measurements from a single owner or operator instead of only using measurements from a single facility. If you elect to use this option, the reporter emission factor must be applied to all reporting facilities for the owner or operator.
