
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Methods for performing as found measurements from individual reciprocating compressor sources.

(2)If conducting measurements for each compressor source, you must determine the volumetric emissions from blowdown valves and isolation valves as specified in paragraph (p)(2)(i) of this section. You must determine the volumetric emissions from reciprocating rod packing as specified in paragraph (p)(2)(ii) or (iii) of this section.

(i) For blowdown valves on compressors in operating-mode or standby-pressurized-mode, and for isolation valves on compressors in not-operating-depressurized-mode, determine the volumetric emissions using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (p)(2)(i)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Determine the volumetric flow at standard conditions from the blowdown vent using calibrated bagging or high volume sampler according to methods set forth in § 98.234(c) and (d), respectively.

(B) Determine the volumetric flow at standard conditions from the blowdown vent using a temporary meter such as a vane anemometer, according to methods set forth in § 98.234(b).

(C) Use an acoustic leak detection device according to methods set forth in § 98.234(a)(5).

(D) You may choose to use any of the methods set forth in § 98.234(a) to screen for emissions. If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 98.234(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraphs (p)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 98.234(a), then you may assume that the volumetric emissions are zero. For the purposes of this paragraph, when using any of the methods in § 98.234(a), emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to the method.

(ii) For reciprocating rod packing equipped with an open-ended vent line on compressors in operating-mode, determine the volumetric emissions using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (p)(2)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Determine the volumetric flow at standard conditions from the open-ended vent line using calibrated bagging or high volume sampler according to methods set forth in § 98.234(c) and (d), respectively.

(B) Determine the volumetric flow at standard conditions from the open-ended vent line using a temporary meter such as a vane anemometer, according to methods set forth in § 98.234(b).

(C) You may choose to use any of the methods set forth in § 98.234(a) to screen for emissions. If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 98.234(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (p)(2)(ii)(A) and (p)(4)(ii)(B) of this section. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 98.234(a), then you may assume that the volumetric emissions are zero. For the purposes of this paragraph, when using any of the methods in § 98.234(a), emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to the method.

(iii) For reciprocating rod packing not equipped with an open-ended vent line on compressors in operating-mode, you must determine the volumetric emissions using the method specified in paragraphs (p)(2)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) You must use the methods described in § 98.234(a) to conduct annual leak detection of equipment leaks from the packing case into an open distance piece, or for compressors with a closed distance piece, conduct annual detection of gas emissions from the rod packing vent, distance piece vent, compressor crank case breather cap, or other vent emitting gas from the rod packing.

(B) You must measure emissions found in paragraph (p)(2)(iii)(A) of this section using an appropriate meter, calibrated bag, or high volume sampler according to methods set forth in § 98.234(b), (c), and (d), respectively.
