
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Methods for performing as found measurements from manifolded groups of reciprocating compressor sources.

(4)If conducting measurements for a manifolded group of compressor sources, you must measure volumetric emissions as specified in paragraphs (p)(4)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Measure at a single point in the manifold downstream of all compressor inputs and, if practical, prior to comingling with other non-compressor emission sources.

(ii) Determine the volumetric flow at standard conditions from the common stack using one of the methods specified in paragraph (p)(4)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) A temporary meter such as a vane anemometer according the methods set forth in § 98.234(b).

(B) Calibrated bagging according to methods set forth in § 98.234(c).

(C) A high volume sampler according to methods set forth § 98.234(d).

(D) An acoustic leak detection device according to methods set forth in § 98.234(a)(5).

(E) You may choose to use any of the methods set forth in § 98.234(a) to screen for emissions. If emissions are detected using the methods set forth in § 98.234(a), then you must use one of the methods specified in paragraph (p)(4)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section. If emissions are not detected using the methods in § 98.234(a), then you may assume that the volumetric emissions are zero. For the purposes of this paragraph, when using any of the methods in § 98.234(a), emissions are detected whenever a leak is detected according to the method.
