
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Equipment leaks by population count.

(r)This paragraph (r) applies to emissions sources listed in § 98.232(c)(21), (f)(7), (g)(5), (h)(6), and (j)(10) if you are not required to comply with paragraph (q) of this section and if you do not elect to comply with paragraph (q) of this section for these components in lieu of this paragraph (r). This paragraph (r) also applies to emission sources listed in § 98.232(i)(2), (i)(3), (i)(4), (i)(5), (i)(6), and (j)(11). To be subject to the requirements of this paragraph (r), the listed emissions sources also must contact streams with gas content greater than 10 percent CHplus COby weight. Emissions sources that contact streams with gas content less than or equal to 10 percent CHplus COby weight are exempt from the requirements of this paragraph (r) and do not need to be reported. Tubing systems equal to or less than one half inch diameter are exempt from the requirements of paragraph (r) of this section and do not need to be reported. You must calculate emissions from all emission sources listed in this paragraph using Equation W-32A of this section, except for natural gas distribution facility emission sources listed in § 98.232(i)(3). Natural gas distribution facility emission sources listed in § 98.232(i)(3) must calculate emissions using Equation W-32B of this section and according to paragraph (r)(6)(ii) of this section.

(1) Calculate both CHand COmass emissions from volumetric emissions using calculations in paragraph (v) of this section.

(2) Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must use the appropriate default whole gas population emission factors listed in Table W-1A of this subpart. Major equipment and components associated with gas wells and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting systems are considered gas service components in reference to Table W-1A of this subpart and major natural gas equipment in reference to Table W-1B of this subpart. Major equipment and components associated with crude oil wells are considered crude service components in reference to Table W-1A of this subpart and major crude oil equipment in reference to Table W-1C of this subpart. Where facilities conduct EOR operations the emissions factor listed in Table W-1A of this subpart shall be used to estimate all streams of gases, including recycle COstream. The component count can be determined using either of the calculation methods described in this paragraph (r)(2), except for miles of gathering pipelines by material type, which must be determined using Component Count Method 2 in paragraph (r)(2)(ii) of this section. The same calculation method must be used for the entire calendar year.
