
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Component Count Method 2.

(ii)Count each component individually for the facility. Use the appropriate factor in Table W-1A of this subpart for operations in Eastern and Western U.S. according to the mapping in Table W-1D of this subpart.

(3) Underground natural gas storage facilities must use the appropriate default total hydrocarbon population emission factors for storage wellheads in gas service listed in Table W-4B to this subpart.

(4) LNG storage facilities must use the appropriate default methane population emission factor for LNG storage compressors in gas service listed in Table W-5B to this subpart.

(5) LNG import and export facilities must use the appropriate default methane population emission factor for LNG terminal compressors in gas service listed in Table W-6B to this subpart.

(6) Natural gas distribution facilities must use the appropriate methane emission factors as described in paragraphs (r)(6)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Below grade metering-regulating stations, distribution mains, and distribution services must use the appropriate default methane population emission factors listed in Table W-7 of this subpart. Below grade transmission-distribution transfer stations must use the emission factor for below grade metering-regulating stations.

(ii) Above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations must use the meter/regulator run population emission factor calculated in Equation W-31. Natural gas distribution facilities that do not have above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations are not required to calculate emissions for above grade metering-regulating stations and are not required to report GHG emissions in ยง 98.236(r)(2)(v).
