
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Survey requirements.

(1)(i) For the components listed in § 98.232(e)(7), (f)(5), (g)(4), and (h)(5), that are not subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you must conduct surveys using any of the leak detection methods listed in § 98.234(a) and calculate equipment leak emissions using the procedures specified in paragraph (q)(2) of this section.

(ii) For the components listed in § 98.232(d)(7) and (i)(1), you must conduct surveys using any of the leak detection methods listed in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5) and calculate equipment leak emissions using the procedures specified in paragraph (q)(2) of this section.

(iii) For the components listed in § 98.232(c)(21), (e)(7), (e)(8), (f)(5), (f)(6), (f)(7), (f)(8), (g)(4), (g)(6), (g)(7), (h)(5), (h)(7), (h)(8), and (j)(10) that are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you must conduct surveys using any of the leak detection methods in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7) and calculate equipment leak emissions using the procedures specified in paragraph (q)(2) of this section.

(iv) For the components listed in § 98.232(c)(21), (e)(8), (f)(6), (f)(7), (f)(8), (g)(6), (g)(7), (h)(7), (h)(8), or (j)(10), that are not subject to fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, you may elect to conduct surveys according to this paragraph (q), and, if you elect to do so, then you must use one of the leak detection methods in § 98.234(a).

(A) If you elect to use a leak detection method in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5) for the surveyed component types in § 98.232(c)(21), (f)(7), (g)(6), (h)(7), or (j)(10) in lieu of the population count methodology specified in paragraph (r) of this section, then you must calculate emissions for the surveyed component types in § 98.232(c)(21), (f)(7), (g)(6), (h)(7), or (j)(10) using the procedures in paragraph (q)(2) of this section.

(B) If you elect to use a leak detection method in § 98.234(a)(1) through (5) for the surveyed component types in § 98.232(e)(8), (f)(6), (f)(8), (g)(7), and (h)(8), then you must use the procedures in paragraph (q)(2) of this section to calculate those emissions.

(C) If you elect to use a leak detection method in § 98.234(a)(6) or (7) for any elective survey under this subparagraph (q)(1)(iv), then you must survey the component types in § 98.232(c)(21), (e)(8), (f)(6), (f)(7), (f)(8), (g)(6), (g)(7), (h)(7), (h)(8), and (j)(10) that are not subject to fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, and you must calculate emissions from the surveyed component types in § 98.232(c)(21), (e)(8), (f)(6), (f)(7), (f)(8), (g)(6), (g)(7), (h)(7), (h)(8), and (j)(10) using the emission calculation requirements in paragraph (q)(2) of this section.
