
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Emission calculation methodology.

(2)For industry segments listed in § 98.230(a)(2) through (9), if equipment leaks are detected during surveys required or elected for components listed in paragraphs (q)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section, then you must calculate equipment leak emissions per component type per reporting facility using Equation W-30 of this section and the requirements specified in paragraphs (q)(2)(i) through (xi) of this section. For the industry segment listed in § 98.230(a)(8), the results from Equation W-30 are used to calculate population emission factors on a meter/regulator run basis using Equation W-31 of this section. If you chose to conduct equipment leak surveys at all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations over multiple years, "n," according to paragraph (q)(2)(x)(A) of this section, then you must calculate the emissions from all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations as specified in paragraph (q)(2)(xi) of this section.

(i) You must conduct at least one leak detection survey in a calendar year. The leak detection surveys selected must be conducted during the calendar year. If you conduct multiple complete leak detection surveys in a calendar year, you must use the results from each complete leak detection survey when calculating emissions using Equation W-30. For components subject to the well site and compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter, each survey conducted in accordance with § 60.5397a of this chapter will be considered a complete leak detection survey for purposes of this section.

(ii) Calculate both COand CHmass emissions using calculations in paragraph (v) of this section.

(iii) Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities must use the appropriate default whole gas leaker emission factors for components in gas service, light crude service, and heavy crude service listed in Table W-1E to this subpart.

(iv) Onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must use the appropriate default whole gas leaker factors for components in gas service listed in Table W-1E to this subpart.

(v) Onshore natural gas processing facilities must use the appropriate default total hydrocarbon leaker emission factors for compressor components in gas service and non-compressor components in gas service listed in Table W-2 to this subpart.

(vi) Onshore natural gas transmission compression facilities must use the appropriate default total hydrocarbon leaker emission factors for compressor components in gas service and non-compressor components in gas service listed in Table W-3A to this subpart.

(vii) Underground natural gas storage facilities must use the appropriate default total hydrocarbon leaker emission factors for storage stations or storage wellheads in gas service listed in Table W-4A to this subpart.

(viii) LNG storage facilities must use the appropriate default methane leaker emission factors for LNG storage components in LNG service or gas service listed in Table W-5A to this subpart.

(ix) LNG import and export facilities must use the appropriate default methane leaker emission factors for LNG terminals components in LNG service or gas service listed in Table W-6A to this subpart.

(x) Natural gas distribution facilities must use Equation W-30 of this section and the default methane leaker emission factors for transmission-distribution transfer station components in gas service listed in Table W-7 to this subpart to calculate component emissions from annual equipment leak surveys conducted at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations. Natural gas distribution facilities are required to perform equipment leak surveys only at above grade stations that qualify as transmission-distribution transfer stations. Below grade transmission-distribution transfer stations and all metering-regulating stations that do not meet the definition of transmission-distribution transfer stations are not required to perform equipment leak surveys under this section.

(A) Natural gas distribution facilities may choose to conduct equipment leak surveys at all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations over multiple years "n," not exceeding a five year period to cover all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations. If the facility chooses to use the multiple year option, then the number of transmission-distribution transfer stations that are monitored in each year should be approximately equal across all years in the cycle.

(B) Use Equation W-31 of this section to determine the meter/regulator run population emission factors for each GHG. As additional survey data become available, you must recalculate the meter/regulator run population emission factors for each GHGannually according to paragraph (q)(2)(x)(C) of this section.

(C) The emission factor "EFs," based on annual equipment leak surveys at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations, must be calculated annually. If you chose to conduct equipment leak surveys at all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations over multiple years, "n," according to paragraph (q)(2)(x)(A) of this section and you have submitted a smaller number of annual reports than the duration of the selected cycle period of 5 years or less, then all available data from the current year and previous years must be used in the calculation of the emission factor "EF" from Equation W-31 of this section. After the first survey cycle of "n" years is completed and beginning in calendar year (n+1), the survey will continue on a rolling basis by including the survey results from the current calendar year "y" and survey results from all previous (n-1) calendar years, such that each annual calculation of the emission factor "EF" from Equation W-31 is based on survey results from "n" years. Upon completion of a cycle, you may elect to change the number of years in the next cycle period (to be 5 years or less). If the number of years in the new cycle is greater than the number of years in the previous cycle, calculate "EF" from Equation W-31 in each year of the new cycle using the survey results from the current calendar year and the survey results from the preceding number years that is equal to the number of years in the previous cycle period. If the number of years, "n," in the new cycle is smaller than the number of years in the previous cycle, "n," calculate "EF" from Equation W-31 in each year of the new cycle using the survey results from the current calendar year and survey results from all previous (n-1) calendar years.

(xi) If you chose to conduct equipment leak surveys at all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations over multiple years, "n," according to paragraph (q)(2)(x)(A) of this section, you must use the meter/regulator run population emission factors calculated using Equation W-31 of this section and the total count of all meter/regulator runs at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations to calculate emissions from all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations using Equation W-32B in paragraph (r) of this section.
