
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Offshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities.

(s)Report CO, CH, and NO emissions for offshore petroleum and natural gas production from all equipment leaks, vented emission, and flare emission source types as identified in the data collection and emissions estimation study conducted by BOEMRE in compliance with 30 CFR 250.302 through 304.

(1) Offshore production facilities under BOEMRE jurisdiction shall report the same annual emissions as calculated and reported by BOEMRE in data collection and emissions estimation study published by BOEMRE referenced in 30 CFR 250.302 through 304 (GOADS).

(i) For any calendar year that does not overlap with the most recent BOEMRE emissions study publication year, report the most recent BOEMRE reported emissions data published by BOEMRE referenced in 30 CFR 250.302 through 304 (GOADS). Adjust emissions based on the operating time for the facility relative to the operating time in the most recent BOEMRE published study.

(ii) [Reserved]

(2) Offshore production facilities that are not under BOEMRE jurisdiction must use the most recent monitoring methods and calculation methods published by BOEMRE referenced in 30 CFR 250.302 through 250.304 to calculate and report annual emissions (GOADS).

(i) For any calendar year that does not overlap with the most recent BOEMRE emissions study publication, you may report the most recently reported emissions data submitted to demonstrate compliance with this subpart of part 98, with emissions adjusted based on the operating time for the facility relative to operating time in the previous reporting period.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) If BOEMRE discontinues or delays their data collection effort by more than 4 years, then offshore reporters shall once in every 4 years use the most recent BOEMRE data collection and emissions estimation methods to estimate emissions. These emission estimates would be used to report emissions from the facility sources as required in paragraph (s)(1)(i) of this section.

(4) For either first or subsequent year reporting, offshore facilities either within or outside of BOEMRE jurisdiction that were not covered in the previous BOEMRE data collection cycle must use the most recent BOEMRE data collection and emissions estimation methods published by BOEMRE referenced in 30 CFR 250.302 through 250.304 to calculate and report emissions.
