
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.234 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Acoustic leak detection device.

(5)Use the acoustic leak detection device to detect through-valve leakage. When using the acoustic leak detection device to quantify the through-valve leakage, you must use the instrument manufacturer's calculation methods to quantify the through-valve leak. When using the acoustic leak detection device, if a leak of 3.1 scf per hour or greater is calculated, a leak is detected. In addition, you must operate the acoustic leak detection device to monitor the source valves required by this subpart in accordance with the instrument manufacturer's operating parameters. Acoustic stethoscope type devices designed to detect through valve leakage when put in contact with the valve body and that provide an audible leak signal but do not calculate a leak rate can be used to identify non-leakers with subsequent measurement required to calculate the rate if through-valve leakage is identified. Leaks are reported if a leak rate of 3.1 scf per hour or greater is measured.

(6) Optical gas imaging instrument as specified in § 60.5397a of this chapter. Use an optical gas imaging instrument for equipment leak detection in accordance with § 60.5397a(b), (c)(3), (c)(7), and (e) of this chapter and paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section. Unless using methods in paragraph (a)(7) of this section, an optical gas imaging instrument must be used for all source types that are inaccessible and cannot be monitored without elevating the monitoring personnel more than 2 meters above a support surface.

(i) For the purposes of this subpart, any visible emissions from a component listed in § 98.232 observed by the optical gas imaging instrument is a leak.

(ii) For the purposes of this subpart, the term "fugitive emissions component" in § 60.5397a of this chapter means "component."

(iii) For the purpose of complying with § 98.233(q)(1)(iv), the phrase "the collection of fugitive emissions components at well sites and compressor stations" in § 60.5397a(b) of this chapter means "the collection of components for which you elect to comply with § 98.233(q)(1)(iv)."

(7) Method 21 as specified in § 60.5397a of this chapter. Use the equipment leak detection methods in appendix A-7 to part 60 of this chapter, Method 21, in accordance with § 60.5397a(b), (c)(8), and (e) of this chapter and paragraphs (a)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section. Inaccessible emissions sources, as defined in part 60 of this chapter, are not exempt from this subpart. If the equipment leak detection methods in this paragraph cannot be used, you must use alternative leak detection devices as described in paragraph (a)(6) of this section to monitor inaccessible equipment leaks.

(i) For the purposes of this subpart, any instrument reading from a component listed in § 98.232 of this chapter of 500 ppm or greater using Method 21 is a leak.

(ii) For the purposes of this subpart, the term "fugitive emissions component" in § 60.5397a of this chapter means "component."

(iii) For the purpose of complying with § 98.233(q)(1)(iv), the phrase "the collection of fugitive emissions components at well sites and compressor stations" in § 60.5397a(b) of this chapter means "the collection of components for which you elect to comply with § 98.233(q)(1)(iv)."

(b) You must operate and calibrate all flow meters, composition analyzers and pressure gauges used to measure quantities reported in § 98.233 according to the procedures in § 98.3(i) and the procedures in paragraph (b) of this section. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists or you may use an industry standard practice. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Gas Association (AGA), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB).

(c) Use calibrated bags (also known as vent bags) only where the emissions are at near-atmospheric pressures and below the maximum temperature specified by the vent bag manufacturer such that the bag is safe to handle. The bag opening must be of sufficient size that the entire emission can be tightly encompassed for measurement till the bag is completely filled.

(1) Hold the bag in place enclosing the emissions source to capture the entire emissions and record the time required for completely filling the bag. If the bag inflates in less than one second, assume one second inflation time.

(2) Perform three measurements of the time required to fill the bag, report the emissions as the average of the three readings.

(3) Estimate natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in § 98.233(t).

(4) Estimate CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions from volumetric natural gas emissions using the calculations in § 98.233(u) and (v).

(d) Use a high volume sampler to measure emissions within the capacity of the instrument.

(1) A technician following manufacturer instructions shall conduct measurements, including equipment manufacturer operating procedures and measurement methods relevant to using a high volume sampler, including positioning the instrument for complete capture of the equipment leak without creating backpressure on the source.

(2) If the high volume sampler, along with all attachments available from the manufacturer, is not able to capture all the emissions from the source then use anti-static wraps or other aids to capture all emissions without violating operating requirements as provided in the instrument manufacturer's manual.

(3) Estimate natural gas volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in § 98.233(t). Estimate CHand COvolumetric and mass emissions from volumetric natural gas emissions using the calculations in § 98.233(u) and (v).

(4) Calibrate the instrument at 2.5 percent methane with 97.5 percent air and 100 percent CHby using calibrated gas samples and by following manufacturer's instructions for calibration.

(e) Peng Robinson Equation of State means the equation of state defined by Equation W-41 of this section:
