
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.233 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Onshore petroleum and natural gas production, onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting, and natural gas distribution combustion emissions.

(z)Calculate CO, CH, and NO combustion-related emissions from stationary or portable equipment, except as specified in paragraphs (z)(3) and (4) of this section, as follows:

(1) If a fuel combusted in the stationary or portable equipment is listed in Table C-1 of subpart C of this part, or is a blend containing one or more fuels listed in Table C-1, calculate emissions according to paragraph (z)(1)(i) of this section. If the fuel combusted is natural gas and is of pipeline quality specification and has a minimum high heat value of 950 Btu per standard cubic foot, use the calculation method described in paragraph (z)(1)(i) of this section and you may use the emission factor provided for natural gas as listed in Table C-1. If the fuel is natural gas, and is not pipeline quality or has a high heat value of less than 950 Btu per standard cubic feet, calculate emissions according to paragraph (z)(2) of this section. If the fuel is field gas, process vent gas, or a blend containing field gas or process vent gas, calculate emissions according to paragraph (z)(2) of this section.

(i) For fuels listed in Table C-1 or a blend containing one or more fuels listed in Table C-1, calculate CO, CH, and NO emissions according to any Tier listed in subpart C of this part. You must follow all applicable calculation requirements for that tier listed in § 98.33, any monitoring or QA/QC requirements listed for that tier in § 98.34, any missing data procedures specified in § 98.35, and any recordkeeping requirements specified in § 98.37.

(ii) Emissions from fuel combusted in stationary or portable equipment at onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities, at onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities, and at natural gas distribution facilities will be reported according to the requirements specified in § 98.236(z) and not according to the reporting requirements specified in subpart C of this part.

(2) For fuel combustion units that combust field gas, process vent gas, a blend containing field gas or process vent gas, or natural gas that is not of pipeline quality or that has a high heat value of less than 950 Btu per standard cubic feet, calculate combustion emissions as follows:

(i) You may use company records to determine the volume of fuel combusted in the unit during the reporting year.

(ii) If you have a continuous gas composition analyzer on fuel to the combustion unit, you must use these compositions for determining the concentration of gas hydrocarbon constituent in the flow of gas to the unit. If you do not have a continuous gas composition analyzer on gas to the combustion unit, you must use the appropriate gas compositions for each stream of hydrocarbons going to the combustion unit as specified in the applicable paragraph in (u)(2) of this section.

(iii) Calculate GHG volumetric emissions at actual conditions using Equations W-39A and W-39B of this section:

(iv) Calculate GHG volumetric emissions at standard conditions using calculations in paragraph (t) of this section.

(v) Calculate both combustion-related CHand COmass emissions from volumetric CHand COemissions using calculation in paragraph (v) of this section.

(vi) Calculate NO mass emissions using Equation W-40 of this section.

(3) External fuel combustion sources with a rated heat capacity equal to or less than 5 mmBtu/hr do not need to report combustion emissions or include these emissions for threshold determination in § 98.231(a). You must report the type and number of each external fuel combustion unit.

(4) Internal fuel combustion sources, not compressor-drivers, with a rated heat capacity equal to or less than 1 mmBtu/hr (or the equivalent of 130 horsepower), do not need to report combustion emissions or include these emissions for threshold determination in § 98.231(a). You must report the type and number of each internal fuel combustion unit.
