
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.234 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Special reporting provisions for best available monitoring methods in reporting year 2016,Best available monitoring methods.

(g)-(1)From January 1, 2016, to December 31, 2016, you must use the calculation methodologies and equations in ยง 98.233 but you may use the best available monitoring method as described in paragraph (g)(2) of this section for any parameter specified in paragraphs (g)(3) through (6) of this section for which it is not reasonably feasible to acquire, install, and operate a required piece of monitoring equipment by January 1, 2016. Starting no later than January 1, 2017, you must discontinue using best available methods and begin following all applicable monitoring and QA/QC requirements of this part. For onshore petroleum and natural gas production, this paragraph (g)(1) only applies if emissions from well completions and workovers of oil wells with hydraulic fracturing cause your facility to exceed the reporting threshold in ยง 98.231(a)(1).

(2) Best available monitoring methods means any of the following methods:

(i) Monitoring methods currently used by the facility that do not meet the specifications of this subpart.

(ii) Supplier data.

(iii) Engineering calculations.

(iv) Other company records.
