
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.234 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Best available monitoring methods for specified activity data.

(6)You may use best available monitoring methods for activity data as listed in paragraphs (g)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section that cannot reasonably be obtained according to the monitoring and QA/QC requirements of this subpart for well completions and workovers of oil wells with hydraulic fracturing, onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities, or natural gas transmission pipelines.

(i) Cumulative hours of venting, days, or times of operation in § 98.233(e), (g), (o), (p), and (r).

(ii) Number of blowdowns, completions, workovers, or other events in § 98.233(g) and (i).

(iii) Cumulative volume produced, volume input or output, or volume of fuel used in paragraphs § 98.233(d), (e), (j), (n), and (z).

(h) For well venting for liquids unloading, if a monitoring period other than the full calendar year is used to determine the cumulative amount of time in hours of venting for each well (the term "T" in Equation W-7A and W-7B of § 98.233) or the number of unloading events per well (the term "V" in Equations W-8 and W-9 of § 98.233), then the monitoring period must begin before February 1 of the reporting year and must not end before December 1 of the reporting year. The end of one monitoring period must immediately precede the start of the next monitoring period for the next reporting year. All production days must be monitored and all venting accounted for.
