
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.235 Procedures for estimating missing data.

Except as specified in § 98.233, whenever a value of a parameter is unavailable for a GHG emission calculation required by this subpart (including, but not limited to, if a measuring device malfunctions during unit operation or activity data are not collected), you must follow the procedures specified in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section, as applicable.

(a) For stationary and portable combustion sources that use the calculation methods of subpart C of this part, you must use the missing data procedures in subpart C of this part.

(b) For each missing value of a parameter that should have been measured quarterly or more frequently using equipment including, but not limited to, a continuous flow meter, composition analyzer, thermocouple, or pressure gauge, you must substitute the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident. If the "after" value is not obtained by the end of the reporting year, you may use the "before" value for the missing data substitution. If, for a particular parameter, no quality-assured data are available prior to the missing data incident, you must use the first quality-assured value obtained after the missing data period as the substitute data value. A value is quality-assured according to the procedures specified in § 98.234.

(c) For each missing value of a parameter that should have been measured annually, you must repeat the estimation or measurement activity for those sources as soon as possible, including in the subsequent calendar year if missing data are not discovered until after December 31 of the year in which data are collected, until valid data for reporting are obtained. Data developed and/or collected in a subsequent calendar year to substitute for missing data cannot be used for that subsequent year's emissions estimation. Where missing data procedures are used for the previous year, at least 30 days must separate emissions estimation or measurements for the previous year and emissions estimation or measurements for the current year of data collection.

(d) For each missing value of a parameter that should have been measured biannually (every two years), you must conduct the estimation or measurement activity for those sources as soon as possible in the subsequent calendar year if the estimation or measurement was not made in the appropriate year (first year of data collection and every two years thereafter), until valid data for reporting are obtained. Data developed and/or collected in a subsequent calendar year to substitute for missing data cannot be used to alternate or postpone subsequent biannual emissions estimations or measurements.

(e) For the first 6 months of required data collection, facilities that become newly subject to this subpart W may use best engineering estimates for any data that cannot reasonably be measured or obtained according to the requirements of this subpart.

(f) For the first 6 months of required data collection, facilities that are currently subject to this subpart W and that acquire new sources from another facility that were not previously subject to this subpart W may use best engineering estimates for any data related to those newly acquired sources that cannot reasonably be measured or obtained according to the requirements of this subpart.

(g) Unless addressed in another paragraph of this section, for each missing value of any activity data, you must substitute data value(s) using the best available estimate(s) of the parameter(s), based on all applicable and available process or other data (including, but not limited to, processing rates, operating hours).

(h) You must report information for all measured and substitute values of a parameter, and the procedures used to substitute an unavailable value of a parameter per the requirements in § 98.236(bb).

(i) You must follow recordkeeping requirements listed in § 98.237(f).
