
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Dehydrators.

(e)You must indicate whether your facility contains any of the following equipment: Glycol dehydrators with an annual average daily natural gas throughput greater than or equal to 0.4 million standard cubic feet per day, glycol dehydrators with an annual average daily natural gas throughput less than 0.4 million standard cubic feet per day, and dehydrators that use desiccant. If your facility contains any of the equipment listed in this paragraph (e), then you must report the applicable information in paragraphs (e)(1) through (3).

(1) For each glycol dehydrator that has an annual average daily natural gas throughput greater than or equal to 0.4 million standard cubic feet per day (as specified in ยง 98.233(e)(1)), you must report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (xviii) of this section for the dehydrator.

(i) A unique name or ID number for the dehydrator. For the onshore petroleum and natural gas production and the onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segments, a different name or ID may be used for a single dehydrator for each location it operates at in a given year.

(ii) Dehydrator feed natural gas flow rate, in million standard cubic feet per day, determined by engineering estimate based on best available data.

(iii) Dehydrator feed natural gas water content, in pounds per million standard cubic feet.

(iv) Dehydrator outlet natural gas water content, in pounds per million standard cubic feet.
