
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Natural gas pneumatic devices.

(b)You must indicate whether the facility contains the following types of equipment: Continuous high bleed natural gas pneumatic devices, continuous low bleed natural gas pneumatic devices, and intermittent bleed natural gas pneumatic devices. If the facility contains any continuous high bleed natural gas pneumatic devices, continuous low bleed natural gas pneumatic devices, or intermittent bleed natural gas pneumatic devices, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section.

(1) The number of natural gas pneumatic devices as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The total number of devices of each type, determined according to § 98.233(a)(1) and (2).

(ii) If the reported value in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section is an estimated value determined according to § 98.233(a)(2), then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(ii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The number of devices of each type reported in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that are counted.

(B) The number of devices of each type reported in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section that are estimated (not counted).

(C) Whether the calendar year is the first calendar year of reporting or the second calendar year of reporting.

(2) For each type of pneumatic device, the estimated average number of hours in the calendar year that the natural gas pneumatic devices reported in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section were operating in the calendar year ("T" in Equation W-1 of this subpart).

(3) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for the natural gas pneumatic devices combined, calculated using Equation W-1 of this subpart and § 98.233(a)(4), and reported in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.

(4) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for the natural gas pneumatic devices combined, calculated using Equation W-1 of this subpart and § 98.233(a)(4), and reported in paragraph (b)(1)(i) of this section.
