
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Acid gas removal units.

(d)You must indicate whether your facility has any acid gas removal units that vent directly to the atmosphere, to a flare or engine, or to a sulfur recovery plant. If your facility contains any acid gas removal units that vent directly to the atmosphere, to a flare or engine, or to a sulfur recovery plant, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) You must report the information specified in paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section for each acid gas removal unit.

(i) A unique name or ID number for the acid gas removal unit. For the onshore petroleum and natural gas production and the onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segments, a different name or ID may be used for a single acid gas removal unit for each location it operates at in a given year.

(ii) Total feed rate entering the acid gas removal unit, using a meter or engineering estimate based on process knowledge or best available data, in million cubic feet per year.

(iii) The calculation method used to calculate COemissions from the acid gas removal unit, as specified in § 98.233(d).

(iv) Whether any COemissions from the acid gas removal unit are recovered and transferred outside the facility, as specified in § 98.233(d)(11). If any COemissions from the acid gas removal unit were recovered and transferred outside the facility, then you must report the annual quantity of CO, in metric tons COthat was recovered and transferred outside the facility under subpart PP of this part.

(v) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from the acid gas removal unit, calculated using any one of the calculation methods specified in § 98.233(d) and as specified in § 98.233(d)(10) and (11).

(vi) Sub-basin ID that best represents the wells supplying gas to the unit (for the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment only) or name of the county that best represents the equipment supplying gas to the unit (for the onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segment only).

(2) You must report information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section, applicable to the calculation method reported in paragraph (d)(1)(iii) of this section, for each acid gas removal unit.

(i) If you used Calculation Method 1 or Calculation Method 2 as specified in § 98.233(d) to calculate COemissions from the acid gas removal unit, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(i)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Annual average volumetric fraction of COin the vent gas exiting the acid gas removal unit.

(B) Annual volume of gas vented from the acid gas removal unit, in cubic feet.

(ii) If you used Calculation Method 3 as specified in § 98.233(d) to calculate COemissions from the acid gas removal unit, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) Indicate which equation was used (Equation W-4A or W-4B).

(B) Annual average volumetric fraction of COin the natural gas flowing out of the acid gas removal unit, as specified in Equation W-4A or Equation W-4B of this subpart.

(C) Annual average volumetric fraction of COcontent in natural gas flowing into the acid gas removal unit, as specified in Equation W-4A or Equation W-4B of this subpart.

(D) The natural gas flow rate used, as specified in Equation W-4A of this subpart, reported as either total annual volume of natural gas flow into the acid gas removal unit in cubic feet at actual conditions; or total annual volume of natural gas flow out of the acid gas removal unit, as specified in Equation W-4B of this subpart, in cubic feet at actual conditions.

(iii) If you used Calculation Method 4 as specified in § 98.233(d) to calculate COemissions from the acid gas removal unit, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (d)(2)(iii)(A) through (L) of this section, as applicable to the simulation software package used.

(A) The name of the simulation software package used.

(B) Natural gas feed temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit.

(C) Natural gas feed pressure, in pounds per square inch.

(D) Natural gas flow rate, in standard cubic feet per minute.

(E) Acid gas content of the feed natural gas, in mole percent.

(F) Acid gas content of the outlet natural gas, in mole percent.

(G) Unit operating hours, excluding downtime for maintenance or standby, in hours per year.

(H) Exit temperature of the natural gas, in degrees Fahrenheit.

(I) Solvent pressure, in pounds per square inch.

(J) Solvent temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit.

(K) Solvent circulation rate, in gallons per minute.

(L) Solvent weight, in pounds per gallon.
