
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### e.g.,

(vii) Type of absorbent (triethylene glycol (TEG), diethylene glycol (DEG), or ethylene glycol (EG)).

(viii) Whether stripper gas is used in dehydrator.

(ix) Whether a flash tank separator is used in dehydrator.

(x) Total time the dehydrator is operating, in hours.

(xi) Temperature of the wet natural gas, in degrees Fahrenheit.

(xii) Pressure of the wet natural gas, in pounds per square inch gauge.

(xiii) Mole fraction of CHin wet natural gas.

(xiv) Mole fraction of COin wet natural gas.

(xv) Whether any dehydrator emissions are vented to a vapor recovery device.

(xvi) Whether any dehydrator emissions are vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes. If any emissions are vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(xvi)(A) through (C) of this section for these emissions from the dehydrator.

(A) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for the dehydrator, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(6).

(B) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for the dehydrator, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(6).

(C) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, for the dehydrator, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(6).

(xvii) Whether any dehydrator emissions are vented to the atmosphere without being routed to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes. If any emissions are not routed to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(1)(xvii)(A) and (B) of this section for those emissions from the dehydrator.

(A) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for the dehydrator when not venting to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(1), and, if applicable, (e)(5).

(B) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for the dehydrator when not venting to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(1) and, if applicable, (e)(5).

(xviii) Sub-basin ID that best represents the wells supplying gas to the dehydrator (for the onshore petroleum and natural gas production industry segment only) or name of the county that best represents the equipment supplying gas to the dehydrator (for the onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segment only).

(2) For glycol dehydrators with an annual average daily natural gas throughput less than 0.4 million standard cubic feet per day (as specified in § 98.233(e)(2)), you must report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (v) of this section for the entire facility.

(i) The total number of dehydrators at the facility.

(ii) Whether any dehydrator emissions were vented to a vapor recovery device. If any dehydrator emissions were vented to a vapor recovery device, then you must report the total number of dehydrators at the facility that vented to a vapor recovery device.

(iii) Whether any dehydrator emissions were vented to a control device other than a vapor recovery device or a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes. If any dehydrator emissions were vented to a control device(s) other than a vapor recovery device or a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, then you must specify the type of control device(s) and the total number of dehydrators at the facility that were vented to each type of control device.

(iv) Whether any dehydrator emissions were vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes. If any dehydrator emissions were vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(iv)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The total number of dehydrators venting to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes.

(B) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for the dehydrators reported in paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(6).

(C) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for the dehydrators reported in paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(6).

(D) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, for the dehydrators reported in paragraph (e)(2)(iv)(A) of this section, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(6).

(v) For dehydrator emissions that were not vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(v)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for emissions from all dehydrators reported in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section that were not vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(2), (e)(4), and, if applicable, (e)(5), where emissions are added together for all such dehydrators.

(B) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for emissions from all dehydrators reported in paragraph (e)(2)(i) of this section that were not vented to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(2), (e)(4), and, if applicable, (e)(5), where emissions are added together for all such dehydrators.

(3) For dehydrators that use desiccant (as specified in § 98.233(e)(3)), you must report the information specified in paragraphs (e)(3)(i) through (iii) of this section for the entire facility.

(i) The same information specified in paragraphs (e)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section for glycol dehydrators, and report the information under this paragraph for dehydrators that use desiccant.

(ii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for emissions from all desiccant dehydrators reported under paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section that are not venting to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(3), (e)(4), and, if applicable, (e)(5), and summing for all such dehydrators.

(iii) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for emissions from all desiccant dehydrators reported in paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section that are not venting to a flare or regenerator firebox/fire tubes, calculated according to § 98.233(e)(3), (e)(4), and, if applicable, (e)(5), and summing for all such dehydrators.
