
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Liquids unloading.

(f)You must indicate whether well venting for liquids unloading occurs at your facility, and if so, which methods (as specified in § 98.233(f)) were used to calculate emissions. If your facility performs well venting for liquids unloading and uses Calculation Method 1, then you must report the information specified in paragraph (f)(1) of this section. If the facility performs liquids unloading and uses Calculation Method 2 or 3, then you must report the information specified in paragraph (f)(2) of this section.

(1) For each sub-basin and well tubing diameter and pressure group for which you used Calculation Method 1 to calculate natural gas emissions from well venting for liquids unloading, report the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(i) through (xii) of this section. Report information separately for wells with plunger lifts and wells without plunger lifts.

(i) Sub-basin ID.

(ii) Well tubing diameter and pressure group ID and a list of the well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin and well tubing diameter and pressure group ID.

(iii) Plunger lift indicator.

(iv) Count of wells vented to the atmosphere for the sub-basin/well tubing diameter and pressure group.

(v) Percentage of wells for which the monitoring period used to determine the cumulative amount of time venting was not the full calendar year.

(vi) Cumulative amount of time wells were vented (sum of "T" from Equation W-7A or W-7B of this subpart), in hours.

(vii) Cumulative number of unloadings vented to the atmosphere for each well, aggregated across all wells in the sub-basin/well tubing diameter and pressure group.

(viii) Annual natural gas emissions, in standard cubic feet, from well venting for liquids unloading, calculated according to § 98.233(f)(1).

(ix) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from well venting for liquids unloading, calculated according to § 98.233(f)(1) and (4).

(x) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from well venting for liquids unloading, calculated according to § 98.233(f)(1) and (4).

(xi) For each well tubing diameter group and pressure group combination, you must report the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(xi)(A) through (E) of this section for each individual well not using a plunger lift that was tested during the year.

(A) Well ID number of tested well.

(B) Casing pressure, in pounds per square inch absolute.

(C) Internal casing diameter, in inches.

(D) Measured depth of the well, in feet.

(E) Average flow rate of the well venting over the duration of the liquids unloading, in standard cubic feet per hour.

(xii) For each well tubing diameter group and pressure group combination, you must report the information specified in paragraphs (f)(1)(xii)(A) through (E) of this section for each individual well using a plunger lift that was tested during the year.

(A) Well ID number.

(B) The tubing pressure, in pounds per square inch absolute.

(C) The internal tubing diameter, in inches.

(D) Measured depth of the well, in feet.

(E) Average flow rate of the well venting over the duration of the liquids unloading, in standard cubic feet per hour.

(2) For each sub-basin for which you used Calculation Method 2 or 3 (as specified in § 93.233(f)) to calculate natural gas emissions from well venting for liquids unloading, you must report the information in (f)(2)(i) through (x) of this section. Report information separately for each calculation method.

(i) Sub-basin ID and a list of the well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin.

(ii) Calculation method.

(iii) Plunger lift indicator.

(iv) Number of wells vented to the atmosphere.

(v) Cumulative number of unloadings vented to the atmosphere for each well, aggregated across all wells.

(vi) Annual natural gas emissions, in standard cubic feet, from well venting for liquids unloading, calculated according to § 98.233(f)(2) or (3), as applicable.

(vii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from well venting for liquids unloading, calculated according to § 98.233(f)(2) or (3), as applicable, and § 98.233(f)(4).

(viii) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from well venting for liquids unloading, calculated according to § 98.233(f)(2) or (3), as applicable, and § 98.233(f)(4).

(ix) For wells without plunger lifts, the average internal casing diameter, in inches.

(x) For wells with plunger lifts, the average internal tubing diameter, in inches.
