
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Completions and workovers with hydraulic fracturing.

(g)You must indicate whether your facility had any well completions or workovers with hydraulic fracturing during the calendar year. If your facility had well completions or workovers with hydraulic fracturing during the calendar year, then you must report information specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (10) of this section, for each sub-basin and well type combination. Report information separately for completions and workovers.

(1) Sub-basin ID and a list of the well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin that had completions or workovers with hydraulic fracturing during the calendar year.

(2) Well type combination (horizontal or vertical, gas well or oil well).

(3) Number of completions or workovers in the sub-basin and well type combination category.

(4) Calculation method used.

(5) If you used Equation W-10A of § 98.233 to calculate annual volumetric total gas emissions, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Cumulative gas flowback time, in hours, from when gas is first detected until sufficient quantities are present to enable separation, and the cumulative flowback time, in hours, after sufficient quantities of gas are present to enable separation (sum of "T" and sum of "T" values used in Equation W-10A of § 98.233). You may delay the reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells included in this number. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the total number of hours of flowback from all wells during completions or workovers and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in the number.

(ii) For the measured well(s), the flowback rate, in standard cubic feet per hour (average of "FR" values used in Equation W-12A of § 98.233), and the well ID numbers of the wells for which it is measured. You may delay the reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells that can be used for the measurement. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the measured flowback rate during well completion or workover and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in the measurement.

(iii) If you used Equation W-12C of § 98.233 to calculate the average gas production rate for an oil well, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (g)(5)(iii)(A) and (B) of this section.

(A) Gas to oil ratio for the well in standard cubic feet of gas per barrel of oil ("GOR" in Equation W-12C of § 98.233). You may delay the reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells that can be used for the measurement. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the gas to oil ratio for the well and the well ID number for the well.

(B) Volume of oil produced during the first 30 days of production after completions of each newly drilled well or well workover using hydraulic fracturing, in barrels ("V" in Equation W-12C of § 98.233). You may delay the reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells that can be used for the measurement. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the volume of oil produced during the first 30 days of production after well completion or workover and the well ID number for the well.

(6) If you used Equation W-10B of § 98.233 to calculate annual volumetric total gas emissions, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (g)(6)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Vented natural gas volume, in standard cubic feet, for each well in the sub-basin ("FV" in Equation W-10B of § 98.233).

(ii) Flow rate at the beginning of the period of time when sufficient quantities of gas are present to enable separation, in standard cubic feet per hour, for each well in the sub-basin ("FR" in Equation W-10B of § 98.233).

(iii) The well ID number for which vented natural gas volume was measured.

(7) Annual gas emissions, in standard cubic feet ("E" in Equation W-10A or W-10B).

(8) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO.

(9) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH.

(10) If the well emissions were vented to a flare, then you must report the total NO emissions, in metric tons NO.
