
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Onshore production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting storage tanks.

(j)You must indicate whether your facility sends produced oil to atmospheric tanks. If your facility sends produced oil to atmospheric tanks, then you must indicate which Calculation Method(s) you used to calculate GHG emissions, and you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2) of this section as applicable. If you used Calculation Method 1 or Calculation Method 2 of § 98.233(j), and any atmospheric tanks were observed to have malfunctioning dump valves during the calendar year, then you must indicate that dump valves were malfunctioning and you must report the information specified in paragraph (j)(3) of this section.

(1) If you used Calculation Method 1 or Calculation Method 2 of § 98.233(j) to calculate GHG emissions, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(i) through (xvi) of this section for each sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) and by calculation method. Onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities do not report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(ix) and (xi) of this section.

(i) Sub-basin ID (for onshore production) or county name (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting).

(ii) Calculation method used, and name of the software package used if using Calculation Method 1.

(iii) The total annual oil volume from gas-liquid separators and direct from wells or non-separator equipment that is sent to applicable onshore production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting storage tanks, in barrels. You may delay reporting of this data element for onshore production if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and delineation wells are the only wells in the sub-basin with oil production greater than or equal to 10 barrels per day and flowing to gas-liquid separators or direct to storage tanks. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the total volume of oil from all wells and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in this volume.

(iv) The average gas-liquid separator or non-separator equipment temperature, in degrees Fahrenheit.

(v) The average gas-liquid separator or non-separator equipment pressure, in pounds per square inch gauge.

(vi) The average sales oil or stabilized oil API gravity, in degrees.

(vii) The minimum and maximum concentration (mole fraction) of COin flash gas from onshore production and onshore natural gas gathering and boosting storage tanks.

(viii) The minimum and maximum concentration (mole fraction) of CHin flash gas from onshore production and onshore natural gas gathering and boosting storage tanks.

(ix) The number of wells sending oil to gas-liquid separators or directly to atmospheric tanks.

(x) The number of atmospheric tanks.

(xi) An estimate of the number of atmospheric tanks, not on well-pads, receiving your oil.

(xii) If any emissions from the atmospheric tanks at your facility were controlled with vapor recovery systems, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(xii)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) The number of atmospheric tanks that control emissions with vapor recovery systems.

(B) Total COmass, in metric tons CO, that was recovered during the calendar year using a vapor recovery system.

(C) Total CHmass, in metric tons CH, that was recovered during the calendar year using a vapor recovery system.

(D) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from atmospheric tanks equipped with vapor recovery systems.

(E) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from atmospheric tanks equipped with vapor recovery systems.

(xiii) If any atmospheric tanks at your facility vented gas directly to the atmosphere without using a vapor recovery system or without flaring, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(xiii)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) The number of atmospheric tanks that vented gas directly to the atmosphere without using a vapor recovery system or without flaring.

(B) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, that resulted from venting gas directly to the atmosphere.

(C) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, that resulted from venting gas directly to the atmosphere.

(xiv) If you controlled emissions from any atmospheric tanks at your facility with one or more flares, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(1)(xiv)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The number of atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with flares.

(B) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with one or more flares.

(C) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with one or more flares.

(D) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, from atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with one or more flares.

(2) If you used Calculation Method 3 to calculate GHG emissions, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(i)(A) through (F) of this section, at the basin level, for atmospheric tanks where emissions were calculated using Calculation Method 3 of § 98.233(j). Onshore gathering and boosting facilities do not report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(i)(E) and (F) of this section.

(A) The total annual oil/condensate throughput that is sent to all atmospheric tanks in the basin, in barrels. You may delay reporting of this data element for onshore production if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and delineation wells are the only wells in the sub-basin with oil/condensate production less than 10 barrels per day and that send oil/condensate to atmospheric tanks. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the total annual oil/condensate throughput from all wells and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in this volume.

(B) An estimate of the fraction of oil/condensate throughput reported in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(A) of this section sent to atmospheric tanks in the basin that controlled emissions with flares.

(C) An estimate of the fraction of oil/condensate throughput reported in paragraph (j)(2)(i)(A) of this section sent to atmospheric tanks in the basin that controlled emissions with vapor recovery systems.

(D) The number of atmospheric tanks in the basin.

(E) The number of wells with gas-liquid separators ("Count" from Equation W-15 of this subpart) in the basin.

(F) The number of wells without gas-liquid separators ("Count" from Equation W-15 of this subpart) in the basin.

(ii) Report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section for each sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) with atmospheric tanks whose emissions were calculated using Calculation Method 3 of § 98.233(j) and that did not control emissions with flares.

(A) Sub-basin ID (for onshore production) or county name (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting).

(B) The number of atmospheric tanks in the sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) that did not control emissions with flares.

(C) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from atmospheric tanks in the sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) that did not control emissions with flares, calculated using Equation W-15 of § 98.233(j) and adjusted for vapor recovery, if applicable.

(D) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from atmospheric tanks in the sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) that did not control emissions with flares, calculated using Equation W-15 of § 98.233(j) and adjusted for vapor recovery, if applicable.

(iii) Report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(2)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section for each sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) with atmospheric tanks whose emissions were calculated using Calculation Method 3 of § 98.233(j) and that controlled emissions with flares.

(A) Sub-basin ID (for onshore production) or county name (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting).

(B) The number of atmospheric tanks in the sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting) that controlled emissions with flares.

(C) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with flares.

(D) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with flares.

(E) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, from atmospheric tanks that controlled emissions with flares.

(3) If you used Calculation Method 1 or Calculation Method 2 of § 98.233(j), and any gas-liquid separator liquid dump values did not close properly during the calendar year, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (j)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section for each sub-basin (for onshore production) or county (for onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting).

(i) The total number of gas-liquid separators whose liquid dump valves did not close properly during the calendar year.

(ii) The total time the dump valves on gas-liquid separators did not close properly in the calendar year, in hours (sum of the "T" values used in Equation W-16 of this subpart).

(iii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, that resulted from dump valves on gas-liquid separators not closing properly during the calendar year, calculated using Equation W-16 of this subpart.

(iv) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, that resulted from the dump valves on gas-liquid separators not closing properly during the calendar year, calculated using Equation W-16 of this subpart.
