
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Transmission storage tanks.

(k)You must indicate whether your facility contains any transmission storage tanks. If your facility contains at least one transmission storage tank, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (k)(1) through (3) of this section for each transmission storage tank vent stack.

(1) For each transmission storage tank vent stack, report the information specified in (k)(1)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The unique name or ID number for the transmission storage tank vent stack.

(ii) Method used to determine if dump valve leakage occurred.

(iii) Indicate whether scrubber dump valve leakage occurred for the transmission storage tank vent according to § 98.233(k)(2).

(iv) Indicate if there is a flare attached to the transmission storage tank vent stack.

(2) If scrubber dump valve leakage occurred for a transmission storage tank vent stack, as reported in paragraph (k)(1)(iii) of this section, and the vent stack vented directly to the atmosphere during the calendar year, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (k)(2)(i) through (v) of this section for each transmission storage vent stack where scrubber dump valve leakage occurred.

(i) Method used to measure the leak rate.

(ii) Measured leak rate (average leak rate from a continuous flow measurement device), in standard cubic feet per hour.

(iii) Duration of time that the leak is counted as having occurred, in hours, as determined in § 98.233(k)(3) (may use best available data if a continuous flow measurement device was used).

(iv) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, that resulted from venting gas directly to the atmosphere, calculated according to § 98.233(k)(1) through (4).

(v) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, that resulted from venting gas directly to the atmosphere, calculated according to § 98.233(k)(1) through (4).

(3) If scrubber dump valve leakage occurred for a transmission storage tank vent stack, as reported in paragraph (k)(1)(iii), and the vent stack vented to a flare during the calendar year, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (k)(3)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Method used to measure the leak rate.

(ii) Measured leakage rate (average leak rate from a continuous flow measurement device) in standard cubic feet per hour.

(iii) Duration of time that flaring occurred in hours, as defined in § 98.233(k)(3) (may use best available data if a continuous flow measurement device was used).

(iv) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, that resulted from flaring gas, calculated according to § 98.233(k)(5).

(v) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, that resulted from flaring gas, calculated according to § 98.233(k)(5).

(vi) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, that resulted from flaring gas, calculated according to § 98.233(k)(5).
