
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Completions and workovers without hydraulic fracturing.

(h)You must indicate whether the facility had any gas well completions without hydraulic fracturing or any gas well workovers without hydraulic fracturing, and if the activities occurred with or without flaring. If the facility had gas well completions or workovers without hydraulic fracturing, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1) through (4) of this section, as applicable.

(1) For each sub-basin with gas well completions without hydraulic fracturing and without flaring, report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) Sub-basin ID and a list of the well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin for gas well completions without hydraulic fracturing and without flaring.

(ii) Number of well completions that vented gas directly to the atmosphere without flaring.

(iii) Total number of hours that gas vented directly to the atmosphere during venting for all completions in the sub-basin category (the sum of all "T" for completions that vented to the atmosphere as used in Equation W-13B).

(iv) Average daily gas production rate for all completions without hydraulic fracturing in the sub-basin without flaring, in standard cubic feet per hour (average of all "V" used in Equation W-13B of § 98.233). You may delay reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells that can be used for the measurement. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the measured average daily gas production rate for all wells during completions and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in the measurement.

(v) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, that resulted from completions venting gas directly to the atmosphere ("E" from Equation W-13B for completions that vented directly to the atmosphere, converted to mass emissions according to § 98.233(h)(1)).

(vi) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, that resulted from completions venting gas directly to the atmosphere ("E" from Equation W-13B for completions that vented directly to the atmosphere, converted to mass emissions according to § 98.233(h)(1)).

(2) For each sub-basin with gas well completions without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring, report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(2)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) Sub-basin ID and a list of the well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin for gas well completions without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring.

(ii) Number of well completions that flared gas.

(iii) Total number of hours that gas vented to a flare during venting for all completions in the sub-basin category (the sum of all "T" for completions that vented to a flare from Equation W-13B).

(iv) Average daily gas production rate for all completions without hydraulic fracturing in the sub-basin with flaring, in standard cubic feet per hour (the average of all "V" from Equation W-13B of § 98.233). You may delay reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells that can be used for the measurement. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the measured average daily gas production rate for all wells during completions and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in the measurement.

(v) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, that resulted from completions that flared gas calculated according to § 98.233(h)(2).

(vi) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, that resulted from completions that flared gas calculated according to § 98.233(h)(2).

(vii) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, that resulted from completions that flared gas calculated according to § 98.233(h)(2).

(3) For each sub-basin with gas well workovers without hydraulic fracturing and without flaring, report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Sub-basin ID and a list of the well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin for gas well workovers without hydraulic fracturing and without flaring.

(ii) Number of workovers that vented gas to the atmosphere without flaring.

(iii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons COper year, that resulted from workovers venting gas directly to the atmosphere ("E" in Equation W-13A for workovers that vented directly to the atmosphere, converted to mass emissions as specified in § 98.233(h)(1)).

(iv) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CHper year, that resulted from workovers venting gas directly to the atmosphere ("E" in Equation W-13A for workovers that vented directly to the atmosphere, converted to mass emissions as specified in § 98.233(h)(1)).

(4) For each sub-basin with gas well workovers without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring, report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Sub-basin ID and a list of well ID numbers associated with each sub-basin for gas well workovers without hydraulic fracturing and with flaring.

(ii) Number of workovers that flared gas.

(iii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons COper year, that resulted from workovers that flared gas calculated as specified in § 98.233(h)(2).

(iv) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CHper year, that resulted from workovers that flared gas, calculated as specified in § 98.233(h)(2).

(v) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO per year, that resulted from workovers that flared gas calculated as specified in § 98.233(h)(2).
