
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Report by equipment or event type.,i.e.,,i.e.,

(1)If you calculated emissions from blowdown vent stacks by the seven categories listed in § 98.233(i)(2) for industry segments other than the onshore natural gas transmission pipeline segment, then you must report the equipment or event types and the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for each equipment or event type. If a blowdown event resulted in emissions from multiple equipment types, and the emissions cannot be apportioned to the different equipment types, then you may report the information in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for the equipment type that represented the largest portion of the emissions for the blowdown event. If you calculated emissions from blowdown vent stacks by the eight categories listed in § 98.233(i)(2) for the onshore natural gas transmission pipeline segment, then you must report the pipeline segments or event types and the information specified in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for each "equipment or event type" (category). If a blowdown event resulted in emissions from multiple categories, and the emissions cannot be apportioned to the different categories, then you may report the information in paragraphs (i)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section for the "equipment or event type" (category) that represented the largest portion of the emissions for the blowdown event.

(i) Total number of blowdowns in the calendar year for the equipment or event type (the sum of equation variable "N" from Equation W-14A or Equation W-14B of this subpart, for all unique physical volumes for the equipment or event type).

(ii) Annual COemissions for the equipment or event type, in metric tons CO, calculated according to § 98.233(i)(2)(iii).

(iii) Annual CHemissions for the equipment or event type, in metric tons CH, calculated according to § 98.233(i)(2)(iii).
