
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Flare stacks.

(n)You must indicate if your facility contains any flare stacks. You must report the information specified in paragraphs (n)(1) through (12) of this section for each flare stack at your facility, and for each industry segment applicable to your facility.

(1) Unique name or ID for the flare stack. For the onshore petroleum and natural gas production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting industry segments, a different name or ID may be used for a single flare stack for each location where it operates at in a given calendar year.

(2) Indicate whether the flare stack has a continuous flow measurement device.

(3) Indicate whether the flare stack has a continuous gas composition analyzer on feed gas to the flare.

(4) Volume of gas sent to the flare, in standard cubic feet ("V" in Equations W-19 and W-20 of this subpart).

(5) Fraction of the feed gas sent to an un-lit flare ("Z" in Equation W-19 of this subpart).

(6) Flare combustion efficiency, expressed as the fraction of gas combusted by a burning flare.

(7) Mole fraction of CHin the feed gas to the flare ("X" in Equation W-19 of this subpart).

(8) Mole fraction of COin the feed gas to the flare ("X" in Equation W-20 of this subpart).

(9) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO(refer to Equation W-20 of this subpart).

(10) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH(refer to Equation W-19 of this subpart).

(11) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO (refer to Equation W-40 of this subpart).

(12) Indicate whether a CEMS was used to measure emissions from the flare. If a CEMS was used to measure emissions from the flare, then you are not required to report NO and CHemissions for the flare stack.
