
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### As found measurement sample data.

(3)If the measurement methods specified in ยง 98.233(o)(2) or (4) are conducted, report the information specified in paragraph (o)(3)(i) of this section. If the calculation specified in ยง 98.233(o)(6)(ii) is performed, report the information specified in paragraph (o)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) For each as found measurement performed on a leak or vent, report the information specified in paragraphs (o)(3)(i)(A) through (F) of this section.

(A) Name or ID of leak or vent. Use same leak or vent ID as in paragraph (o)(2)(i)(C) of this section.

(B) Measurement date.

(C) Measurement method. If emissions were not detected when using a screening method, report the screening method. If emissions were detected using a screening method, report only the method subsequently used to measure the volumetric emissions.

(D) Measured flow rate, in standard cubic feet per hour.

(E) For each compressor attached to the leak or vent, report the compressor mode during which the measurement was taken.

(F) If the measurement is for a manifolded group of compressor sources, indicate whether the measurement location is prior to or after comingling with non-compressor emission sources.

(ii) For each compressor mode-source combination where a reporter emission factor as calculated in Equation W-23 was used to calculate emissions in Equation W-22, report the information specified in paragraphs (o)(3)(ii)(A) through (D) of this section.

(A) The compressor mode-source combination.

(B) The compressor mode-source combination reporter emission factor, in standard cubic feet per hour (EFin Equation W-23).

(C) The total number of compressors measured in the compressor mode-source combination in the current reporting year and the preceding two reporting years (Countin Equation W-23).

(D) Indicate whether the compressor mode-source combination reporter emission factor is facility-specific or based on all of the reporter's applicable facilities.
