
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Associated natural gas.

(m)You must indicate whether any associated gas was vented or flared during the calendar year. If associated gas was vented or flared during the calendar year, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (m)(1) through (8) of this section for each sub-basin.

(1) Sub-basin ID and a list of well ID numbers for wells for which associated gas was vented or flared.

(2) Indicate whether any associated gas was vented directly to the atmosphere without flaring.

(3) Indicate whether any associated gas was flared.

(4) Average gas to oil ratio, in standard cubic feet of gas per barrel of oil (average of the "GOR" values used in Equation W-18 of this subpart).

(5) Volume of oil produced, in barrels, in the calendar year during the time periods in which associated gas was vented or flared (the sum of "V" used in Equation W-18 of § 98.233). You may delay reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells are the only wells from which associated gas was vented or flared. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the volume of oil produced for well(s) with associated gas venting and flaring and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in the measurement.

(6) Total volume of associated gas sent to sales, in standard cubic feet, in the calendar year during time periods in which associated gas was vented or flared (the sum of "SG" values used in Equation W-18 of § 98.233(m)). You may delay reporting of this data element if you indicate in the annual report that wildcat wells and/or delineation wells from which associated gas was vented or flared. If you elect to delay reporting of this data element, you must report by the date specified in § 98.236(cc) the measured total volume of associated gas sent to sales for well(s) with associated gas venting and flaring and the well ID number(s) for the well(s) included in the measurement.

(7) If you had associated gas emissions vented directly to the atmosphere without flaring, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (m)(7)(i) through (iii) of this section for each sub-basin.

(i) Total number of wells for which associated gas was vented directly to the atmosphere without flaring and a list of their well ID numbers.

(ii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, calculated according to § 98.233(m)(3) and (4).

(iii) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, calculated according to § 98.233(m)(3) and (4).

(8) If you had associated gas emissions that were flared, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (m)(8)(i) through (iv) of this section for each sub-basin.

(i) Total number of wells for which associated gas was flared and a list of their well ID numbers.

(ii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, calculated according to § 98.233(m)(5).

(iii) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, calculated according to § 98.233(m)(5).

(iv) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, calculated according to § 98.233(m)(5).
