
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Onshore petroleum and natural gas production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting.

(5)Reciprocating compressors in onshore petroleum and natural gas production and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting must report the information specified in paragraphs (p)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Number of reciprocating compressors.

(ii) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from reciprocating compressors.

(iii) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from reciprocating compressors.

(q) Equipment leak surveys. For any components subject to or complying with the requirements of § 98.233(q), you must report the information specified in paragraphs (q)(1) and (2) of this section. Natural gas distribution facilities with emission sources listed in § 98.232(i)(1) must also report the information specified in paragraph (q)(3) of this section.

(1) You must report the information specified in paragraphs (q)(1)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Except as specified in paragraph (q)(1)(ii) of this section, the number of complete equipment leak surveys performed during the calendar year.

(ii) Natural gas distribution facilities performing equipment leak surveys across a multiple year leak survey cycle must report the number of years in the leak survey cycle.

(iii) Except for onshore natural gas processing facilities and natural gas distribution facilities, indicate whether any equipment components at your facility are subject to the well site or compressor station fugitive emissions standards in § 60.5397a of this chapter. Report the indication per facility, not per component type.

(iv) For facilities in onshore petroleum and natural gas production, onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting, onshore natural gas transmission compression, underground natural gas storage, LNG storage, and LNG import and export equipment, indicate whether you elected to comply with § 98.233(q) according to § 98.233(q)(1)(iv) for any equipment components at your facility.

(v) Report each type of method described in § 98.234(a) that was used to conduct leak surveys.

(2) You must indicate whether your facility contains any of the component types subject to or complying with § 98.233(q) that are listed in § 98.232(c)(21), (d)(7), (e)(7), (e)(8), (f)(5), (f)(6), (f)(7), (f)(8), (g)(4), (g)(6), (g)(7), (h)(5), (h)(7), (h)(8), (i)(1), or (j)(10) for your facility's industry segment. For each component type that is located at your facility, you must report the information specified in paragraphs (q)(2)(i) through (v) of this section. If a component type is located at your facility and no leaks were identified from that component, then you must report the information in paragraphs (q)(2)(i) through (v) of this section but report a zero ("0") for the information required according to paragraphs (q)(2)(ii) through (v) of this section.

(i) Component type.

(ii) Total number of the surveyed component type that were identified as leaking in the calendar year ("x" in Equation W-30 of this subpart for the component type).

(iii) Average time the surveyed components are assumed to be leaking and operational, in hours (average of "T" from Equation W-30 of this subpart for the component type).

(iv) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for the component type as calculated using Equation W-30 (for surveyed components only).

(v) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for the component type as calculated using Equation W-30 (for surveyed components only).

(3) Natural gas distribution facilities with emission sources listed in § 98.232(i)(1) must also report the information specified in paragraphs (q)(3)(i) through (viii) and, if applicable, (q)(3)(ix) of this section.

(i) Number of above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations surveyed in the calendar year.

(ii) Number of meter/regulator runs at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations surveyed in the calendar year ("Count" from Equation W-31 of this subpart, for the current calendar year).

(iii) Average time that meter/regulator runs surveyed in the calendar year were operational, in hours (average of "T" from Equation W-31 of this subpart, for the current calendar year).

(iv) Number of above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations surveyed in the current leak survey cycle.

(v) Number of meter/regulator runs at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations surveyed in current leak survey cycle (sum of "Count" from Equation W-31 of this subpart, for all calendar years in the current leak survey cycle).

(vi) Average time that meter/regulator runs surveyed in the current leak survey cycle were operational, in hours (average of "T" from Equation W-31 of this subpart, for all years included in the leak survey cycle).

(vii) Meter/regulator run COemission factor based on all surveyed transmission-distribution transfer stations in the current leak survey cycle, in standard cubic feet of COper operational hour of all meter/regulator runs ("EF" for COcalculated using Equation W-31 of this subpart).

(viii) Meter/regulator run CHemission factor based on all surveyed transmission-distribution transfer stations in the current leak survey cycle, in standard cubic feet of CHper operational hour of all meter/regulator runs ("EF" for CHcalculated using Equation W-31 of this subpart).

(ix) If your natural gas distribution facility performs equipment leak surveys across a multiple year leak survey cycle, you must also report:

(A) The total number of meter/regulator runs at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations at your facility ("Count" in Equation W-32B of this subpart).

(B) Average estimated time that each meter/regulator run at above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations was operational in the calendar year, in hours per meter/regulator run ("T" in Equation W-32B of this subpart).

(C) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations at your facility.

(D) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for all above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations at your facility.
