
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Compressor source.

(2)(i) For each compressor source at each compressor, report the information specified in paragraphs (p)(2)(i)(A) through (C) of this section.

(A) Reciprocating compressor name or ID. Use the same ID as in paragraph (p)(1)(i) of this section.

(B) Reciprocating compressor source (isolation valve, blowdown valve, or rod packing).

(C) Unique name or ID for the leak or vent. If the leak or vent is connected to a manifolded group of compressor sources, use the same leak or vent ID for each compressor source in the manifolded group. If multiple compressor sources are released through a single vent for which continuous measurements are used, use the same leak or vent ID for each compressor source released via the measured vent. For a single compressor using as found measurements, you must provide a different leak or vent ID for each compressor source.

(ii) For each leak or vent, report the information specified in paragraphs (p)(2)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section.

(A) Indicate whether the leak or vent is for a single compressor source or manifolded group of compressor sources and whether the emissions from the leak or vent are released to the atmosphere, routed to a flare, combustion (fuel or thermal oxidizer), or vapor recovery.

(B) Indicate whether an as found measurement(s) as identified in ยง 98.233(p)(2) or (4) was conducted on the leak or vent.

(C) Indicate whether continuous measurements as identified in ยง 98.233(p)(3) or (5) were conducted on the leak or vent.
