
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### § 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### Combustion equipment at onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities, onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities, and natural gas distribution facilities.

(z)If your facility is required by § 98.232(c)(22), (i)(7), or (j)(12) to report emissions from combustion equipment, then you must indicate whether your facility has any combustion units subject to reporting according to paragraph (a)(1)(xvii), (a)(8)(i), or (a)(9)(xi) of this section. If your facility contains any combustion units subject to reporting according to paragraph (a)(1)(xviii), (a)(8)(i), or (a)(9)(xii) of this section, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (z)(1) and (2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) Indicate whether the combustion units include: External fuel combustion units with a rated heat capacity less than or equal to 5 million Btu per hour; or, internal fuel combustion units that are not compressor-drivers, with a rated heat capacity less than or equal to 1 mmBtu/hr (or the equivalent of 130 horsepower). If the facility contains external fuel combustion units with a rated heat capacity less than or equal to 5 million Btu per hour or internal fuel combustion units that are not compressor-drivers, with a rated heat capacity less than or equal to 1 million Btu per hour (or the equivalent of 130 horsepower), then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (z)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section for each unit type.

(i) The type of combustion unit.

(ii) The total number of combustion units.

(2) Indicate whether the combustion units include: External fuel combustion units with a rated heat capacity greater than 5 million Btu per hour; internal fuel combustion units that are not compressor-drivers, with a rated heat capacity greater than 1 million Btu per hour (or the equivalent of 130 horsepower); or, internal fuel combustion units of any heat capacity that are compressor-drivers. If your facility contains: External fuel combustion units with a rated heat capacity greater than 5 mmBtu/hr; internal fuel combustion units that are not compressor-drivers, with a rated heat capacity greater than 1 million Btu per hour (or the equivalent of 130 horsepower); or internal fuel combustion units of any heat capacity that are compressor-drivers, then you must report the information specified in paragraphs (z)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section for each combustion unit type and fuel type combination.

(i) The type of combustion unit.

(ii) The type of fuel combusted.

(iii) The quantity of fuel combusted in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet, gallons, or tons.

(iv) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, calculated according to § 98.233(z)(1) and (2).

(v) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, calculated according to § 98.233(z)(1) and (2).

(vi) Annual NO emissions, in metric tons NO, calculated according to § 98.233(z)(1) and (2).

(aa) Each facility must report the information specified in paragraphs (aa)(1) through (11) of this section, for each applicable industry segment, by using best available data. If a quantity required to be reported is zero, you must report zero as the value.

(1) For onshore petroleum and natural gas production, report the data specified in paragraphs (aa)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Report the information specified in paragraphs (aa)(1)(i)(A) through (C) of this section for the basin as a whole.

(A) The quantity of gas produced in the calendar year from wells, in thousand standard cubic feet. This includes gas that is routed to a pipeline, vented or flared, or used in field operations. This does not include gas injected back into reservoirs or shrinkage resulting from lease condensate production.

(B) The quantity of gas produced in the calendar year for sales, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(C) The quantity of crude oil and condensate produced in the calendar year for sales, in barrels.

(ii) Report the information specified in paragraphs (aa)(1)(ii)(A) through (M) of this section for each unique sub-basin category.

(A) State.

(B) County.

(C) Formation type.
