
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(H) The number of wells permanently taken out of production (plugged and abandoned) during the calendar year and a list of the well ID numbers.

(I) Average mole fraction of CHin produced gas.

(J) Average mole fraction of COin produced gas.

(K) If an oil sub-basin, report the average GOR of all wells, in thousand standard cubic feet per barrel.

(L) If an oil sub-basin, report the average API gravity of all wells.

(M) If an oil sub-basin, report average low pressure separator pressure, in pounds per square inch gauge.

(2) For offshore production, report the quantities specified in paragraphs (aa)(2)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) The total quantity of gas handled at the offshore platform in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet, including production volumes and volumes transferred via pipeline from another location.

(ii) The total quantity of oil and condensate handled at the offshore platform in the calendar year, in barrels, including production volumes and volumes transferred via pipeline from another location.

(3) For natural gas processing, report the information specified in paragraphs (aa)(3)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) The quantity of natural gas received at the gas processing plant in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(ii) The quantity of processed (residue) gas leaving the gas processing plant in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iii) The cumulative quantity of all NGLs (bulk and fractionated) received at the gas processing plant in the calendar year, in barrels.

(iv) The cumulative quantity of all NGLs (bulk and fractionated) leaving the gas processing plant in the calendar year, in barrels.

(v) Average mole fraction of CHin natural gas received.

(vi) Average mole fraction of COin natural gas received.

(vii) Indicate whether the facility fractionates NGLs.

(4) For natural gas transmission compression, report the quantity specified in paragraphs (aa)(4)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) The quantity of gas transported through the compressor station in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(ii) Number of compressors.

(iii) Total compressor power rating of all compressors combined, in horsepower.

(iv) Average upstream pipeline pressure, in pounds per square inch gauge.

(v) Average downstream pipeline pressure, in pounds per square inch gauge.

(5) For underground natural gas storage, report the quantities specified in paragraphs (aa)(5)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The quantity of gas injected into storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(ii) The quantity of gas withdrawn from storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iii) Total storage capacity, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(6) For LNG import equipment, report the quantity of LNG imported in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(7) For LNG export equipment, report the quantity of LNG exported in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(8) For LNG storage, report the quantities specified in paragraphs (aa)(8)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) The quantity of LNG added into storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(ii) The quantity of LNG withdrawn from storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iii) Total storage capacity, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(9) For natural gas distribution, report the quantities specified in paragraphs (aa)(9)(i) through (vii) of this section.

(i) The quantity of natural gas received at all custody transfer stations in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet. This value may include meter corrections, but only for the calendar year covered by the annual report.

(ii) The quantity of natural gas withdrawn from in-system storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iii) The quantity of natural gas added to in-system storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iv) The quantity of natural gas delivered to end users, in thousand standard cubic feet. This value does not include stolen gas, or gas that is otherwise unaccounted for.

(v) The quantity of natural gas transferred to third parties such as other LDCs or pipelines, in thousand standard cubic feet. This value does not include stolen gas, or gas that is otherwise unaccounted for.

(vi) The quantity of natural gas consumed by the LDC for operational purposes, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(vii) The estimated quantity of gas stolen in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(10) For onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities, report the quantities specified in paragraphs (aa)(10)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) The quantity of gas received by the gathering and boosting facility in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(ii) The quantity of gas transported to a natural gas processing facility, a natural gas transmission pipeline, a natural gas distribution pipeline, or another gathering and boosting facility in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iii) The quantity of all hydrocarbon liquids received by the gathering and boosting facility in the calendar year, in barrels.

(iv) The quantity of all hydrocarbon liquids transported to a natural gas processing facility, a natural gas transmission pipeline, a natural gas distribution pipeline, or another gathering and boosting facility in the calendar year, in barrels.

(11) For onshore natural gas transmission pipeline facilities, report the quantities specified in paragraphs (aa)(11)(i) through (vi) of this section.

(i) The quantity of natural gas received at all custody transfer stations in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet. This value may include meter corrections, but only for the calendar year covered by the annual report.

(ii) The quantity of natural gas withdrawn from in-system storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iii) The quantity of natural gas added to in-system storage in the calendar year, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(iv) The quantity of natural gas transferred to third parties such as LDCs or other transmission pipelines, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(v) The quantity of natural gas consumed by the transmission pipeline facility for operational purposes, in thousand standard cubic feet.

(vi) The miles of transmission pipeline for each state in the facility.

(bb) For any missing data procedures used, report the information in ยง 98.3(c)(8) except as provided in paragraphs (bb)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For quarterly measurements, report the total number of quarters that a missing data procedure was used for each data element rather than the total number of hours.

(2) For annual or biannual (once every two years) measurements, you do not need to report the number of hours that a missing data procedure was used for each data element.

(cc) If you elect to delay reporting the information in paragraph (g)(5)(i), (g)(5)(ii), (g)(5)(iii)(A), (g)(5)(iii)(B), (h)(1)(iv), (h)(2)(iv), (j)(1)(iii), (j)(2)(i)(A), (l)(1)(iv), (l)(2)(iv), (l)(3)(iii), (l)(4)(iii), (m)(5), or (m)(6) of this section, you must report the information required in that paragraph no later than the date 2 years following the date specified in ยง 98.3(b) introductory text.
