
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart W - Petroleum and Natural Gas Systems
###### ยง 98.236 Data reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(1) You must indicate whether your facility contains any of the emission source types required to use Equation W-32A of ยง 98.233. You must report the information specified in paragraphs (r)(1)(i) through (v) of this section separately for each emission source type required to use Equation W-32A that is located at your facility. Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must report the information specified in paragraphs (r)(1)(i) through (v) separately by component type, service type, and geographic location (Eastern U.S. or Western U.S.).

(i) Emission source type. Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must report the component type, service type and geographic location.

(ii) Total number of the emission source type at the facility ("Count" in Equation W-32A of this subpart).

(iii) Average estimated time that the emission source type was operational in the calendar year, in hours ("T" in Equation W-32A of this subpart).

(iv) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, for the emission source type.

(v) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, for the emission source type.

(2) Natural gas distribution facilities must also report the information specified in paragraphs (r)(2)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Number of above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations at the facility.

(ii) Number of above grade metering-regulating stations that are not transmission-distribution transfer stations at the facility.

(iii) Total number of meter/regulator runs at above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations ("Count" in Equation W-32B of this subpart).

(iv) Average estimated time that each meter/regulator run at above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations was operational in the calendar year, in hours per meter/regulator run ("T" in Equation W-32B of this subpart).

(v) If your facility has above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations and your facility also has above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations, you must also report:

(A) Annual COemissions, in metric tons CO, from above grade metering-regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.

(B) Annual CHemissions, in metric tons CH, from above grade metering regulating stations that are not above grade transmission-distribution transfer stations.

(3) Onshore petroleum and natural gas production facilities and onshore petroleum and natural gas gathering and boosting facilities must also report the information specified in paragraphs (r)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section.

(i) Calculation method used.
