
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### ยง 98.240 Definition of the source category.

(a) The petrochemical production source category consists of processes as described in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) The petrochemical production source category consists of all processes that produce acrylonitrile, carbon black, ethylene, ethylene dichloride, ethylene oxide, or methanol, as either an intermediate in the on-site production of other chemicals or as an end product for sale or shipment off site, except as specified in paragraphs (b) through (g) of this section.

(2) When ethylene dichloride and vinyl chloride monomer are produced in an integrated process, you may consider the entire integrated process to be the petrochemical process for the purpose of complying with the mass balance option in ยง 98.243(c). If you elect to consider the integrated process to be the petrochemical process, then the mass balance must be performed over the entire integrated process.

(b) A process that produces a petrochemical as a byproduct is not part of the petrochemical production source category.

(c) A facility that makes methanol, hydrogen, and/or ammonia from synthesis gas is part of the petrochemical source category if the annual mass of methanol produced exceeds the individual annual mass production levels of both hydrogen recovered as product and ammonia. The facility is part of subpart P of this part (Hydrogen Production) if the annual mass of hydrogen recovered as product exceeds the individual annual mass production levels of both methanol and ammonia. The facility is part of subpart G of this part (Ammonia Manufacturing) if the annual mass of ammonia produced exceeds the individual annual mass production levels of both hydrogen recovered as product and methanol.

(d) A direct chlorination process that is operated independently of an oxychlorination process to produce ethylene dichloride is not part of the petrochemical production source category.

(e) A process that produces bone black is not part of the petrochemical source category.

(f) A process that produces a petrochemical from bio-based feedstock is not part of the petrochemical production source category.

(g) A process that solely distills or recycles waste solvent that contains a petrochemical is not part of the petrochemical production source category.
