
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.242 GHGs to report.

You must report the information in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:

(a) COCH, and NO process emissions from each petrochemical process unit. Process emissions include COgenerated by reaction in the process and by combustion of process off-gas in stationary combustion units and flares.

(1) If you comply with § 98.243(b) or (d), report under this subpart the calculated CO, CH, and NO emissions for each stationary combustion source and flare that burns any amount of petrochemical process off-gas. If you comply with § 98.243(b), also report under this subpart the measured COemissions from process vents routed to stacks that are not associated with stationary combustion units.

(2) If you comply with § 98.243(c), report under this subpart the calculated COemissions for each petrochemical process unit.

(b) CO, CH, and NO combustion emissions from stationary combustion units.

(1) If you comply with § 98.243(b) or (d), report these emissions from stationary combustion units that are associated with petrochemical process units and burn only supplemental fuel under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) by following the requirements of subpart C.

(2) If you comply with § 98.243(c), report CO, CH, and NO combustion emissions under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) by following the requirements of subpart C for all fuels, except emissions from burning petrochemical process off-gas in any combustion unit, including units that are not part of the petrochemical process unit, are not to be reported under subpart C of this part. Determine the applicable Tier in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) based on the maximum rated heat input capacity of the stationary combustion source.

(c) COcaptured. You must report the mass of COcaptured under, subpart PP of this part (Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide (CO) by following the requirements of subpart PP.
