
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.243 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Mass balance for each petrochemical process unit.

(c)Calculate the emissions of COfrom each process unit, for each calendar month as described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.

(1) For each gaseous and liquid feedstock and product, measure the volume or mass used or produced each calendar month with a flow meter by following the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(2). Alternatively, for liquids, you may calculate the volume used or collected in each month based on measurements of the liquid level in a storage tank at least once per month (and just prior to each change in direction of the level of the liquid) following the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(3). Fuels used for combustion purposes are not considered to be feedstocks.

(2) For each solid feedstock and product, measure the mass used or produced each calendar month by following the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(1).

(3) Collect a sample of each feedstock and product at least once per month and determine the molecular weight (for gaseous materials when the quantity is measured in scf) and carbon content of each sample according to the procedures of § 98.244(b)(4). If multiple valid molecular weight or carbon content measurements are made during the monthly measurement period, average them arithmetically. However, if a particular liquid or solid feedstock is delivered in lots, and if multiple deliveries of the same feedstock are received from the same supply source in a given calendar month, only one representative sample is required. Alternatively, you may use the results of analyses conducted by a feedstock supplier, or product customer, provided the sampling and analysis is conducted at least once per month using any of the procedures specified in § 98.244(b)(4).

(4) If you determine that the monthly average concentration of a specific compound in a feedstock or product is greater than 99.5 percent by volume or mass, then as an alternative to the sampling and analysis specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section, you may determine molecular weight and carbon content in accordance with paragraphs (c)(4)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) Calculate the molecular weight and carbon content assuming 100 percent of that feedstock or product is the specific compound.

(ii) Maintain records of any determination made in accordance with this paragraph (c)(4) along with all supporting data, calculations, and other information.

(iii) Reevaluate determinations made under this paragraph (c)(4) after any process change that affects the feedstock or product composition. Keep records of the process change and the corresponding composition determinations. If the feedstock or product composition changes so that the average monthly concentration falls below 99.5 percent, you are no longer permitted to use this alternative method.

(5) Calculate the COmass emissions for each petrochemical process unit using Equations X-1 through X-4 of this section.
