
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.243 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Optional combustion methodology for ethylene production processes.

(d)For each ethylene production process, calculate GHG emissions from combustion units that burn fuel that contains any off-gas from the ethylene process as specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section.

(1) Except as specified in paragraphs (d)(2) and (d)(5) of this section, calculate COemissions using the Tier 3 or Tier 4 methodology in subpart C of this part.

(2) You may use either Equation C-1 or Equation C-2a in subpart C of this part to calculate COemissions from combustion of any ethylene process off-gas streams that meet either of the conditions in paragraphs (d)(2)(i) or (d)(2)(ii) of this section (for any default values in the calculation, use the defaults for fuel gas in Table C-1 of subpart C of this part). Follow the otherwise applicable procedures in subpart C to calculate emissions from combustion of all other fuels in the combustion unit.

(i) The annual average flow rate of fuel gas (that contains ethylene process off-gas) in the fuel gas line to the combustion unit, prior to any split to individual burners or ports, does not exceed 345 standard cubic feet per minute at 60 &#xB0;F and 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute, and a flow meter is not installed at any point in the line supplying fuel gas or an upstream common pipe. Calculate the annual average flow rate using company records assuming total flow is evenly distributed over 525,600 minutes per year.

(ii) The combustion unit has a maximum rated heat input capacity of less than 30 mmBtu/hr, and a flow meter is not installed at any point in the line supplying fuel gas (that contains ethylene process off-gas) or an upstream common pipe.

(3) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(5) of this section, calculate CHand NO emissions using the applicable procedures in § 98.33(c) for the same tier methodology that you used for calculating COemissions.

(i) For all gaseous fuels that contain ethylene process off-gas, use the emission factors for "Fuel Gas" in Table C-2 of subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(ii) For Tier 3, use either the default high heat value for fuel gas in Table C-1 of subpart C of this part or a calculated HHV, as allowed in Equation C-8 of subpart C of this part.

(4) You are not required to use the same Tier for each stationary combustion unit that burns ethylene process off-gas.

(5) For each flare, calculate CO, CH, and NO emissions using the methodology specified in §§ 98.253(b)(1) through (b)(3).
