
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.244 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### i.e.,

(1) Operate, maintain, and calibrate belt scales or other weighing devices as described in Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements for Weighing and Measuring Devices NIST Handbook 44 (2009) (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7), or follow procedures specified by the measurement device manufacturer. You must recalibrate each weighing device according to one of the following frequencies. You may recalibrate either at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer or biennially (once every two years).

(2) Operate and maintain all flow meters used for gas and liquid feedstocks and products according to the manufacturer's recommended procedures. You must calibrate each of these flow meters as specified in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) and (b)(2)(ii) of this section:

(i) You may use either the calibration methods specified by the flow meter manufacturer or an industry consensus standard method. Each flow meter must meet the applicable accuracy specification in § 98.3(i), except as otherwise specified in §§ 98.3(i)(4) through (i)(6).

(ii) You must recalibrate each flow meter according to one of the following frequencies. You may recalibrate at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, biennially (every two years), or at the interval specified by the industry consensus standard practice used.
