
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.244 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(vii) ASTM D5373-08 Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal (incorporated by reference,§ 98.7).

(viii) Method 8015C, Method 8021B, Method 8031, or Method 9060A (all incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(ix) Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6.

(x) Performance Specification 9 in 40 CFR part 60, appendix B for continuous online gas analyzers. The 7-day calibration error test period must be completed prior to the effective date of the rule.

(xi) ASTM D2593-93 (Reapproved 2009) Standard Test Method for Butadiene Purity and Hydrocarbon Impurities by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(xii) ASTM D7633-10 Standard Test Method for Carbon Black-Carbon Content (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7).

(xiii) The results of chromatographic analysis of a feedstock or product, provided that the chromatograph is operated, maintained, and calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(xiv) The results of mass spectrometer analysis of a feedstock or product, provided that the mass spectrometer is operated, maintained, and calibrated according to the manufacturer's instructions.

(xv) Beginning on January 1, 2010, the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(xv)(A) and (B) of this section may be used as alternatives for the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(4)(i) through (b)(4)(xiv) of this section.
