
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.246 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a), (b), or (c) of this section, as appropriate for each process unit.

(a) If you use the mass balance methodology in § 98.243(c), you must report the information specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (13) of this section for each type of petrochemical produced, reported by process unit.

(1) The petrochemical process unit ID number or other appropriate descriptor.

(2) The type of petrochemical produced, names of products, and names of carbon-containing feedstocks.

(3) Annual COemissions calculated using Equation X-4 of this subpart.

(4) The temperature (in &#xB0;F) at which the gaseous feedstock and product volumes used in Equation X-1 of § 98.243 were determined.

(5) Annual quantity of each type of petrochemical produced from each process unit (metric tons). If you are electing to consider the petrochemical process unit to be the entire integrated ethylene dichloride/vinyl chloride monomer process, report the amount of intermediate EDC produced (metric tons). The reported amount of intermediate EDC produced may be a measured quantity or an estimate that is based on process knowledge and best available data.

(6) For each feedstock and product, provide the information specified in paragraphs (a)(6)(i) through (a)(6)(iii) of this section.

(i) Name of each method used to determine carbon content or molecular weight in accordance with § 98.244(b)(4);
