
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.246 Data reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(iii) Identification of each method (method number, title, or other description) used to determine volume or mass in accordance with § 98.244(b)(1) through (3).

(7) [Reserved]

(8) Identification of each combustion unit that burned both process off-gas and supplemental fuel, including combustion units that are not part of the petrochemical process unit.

(9) The number of days during which off-specification product was produced if the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) is used for a product, and, if applicable, the date of any process change that reduced the monthly average composition to less than 99.5 percent for each product or feedstock for which you comply with the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4).

(10) You may elect to report the flow and carbon content of wastewater, and you may elect to report the annual mass of carbon released in fugitive emissions and in process vents that are not controlled with a combustion device. These values may be estimated based on engineering analyses. These values are not to be used in the mass balance calculation.

(11) If you determine carbon content or composition of a feedstock or product using a method under § 98.244(b)(4)(xv)(B), report the information listed in paragraphs (a)(11)(i) through (a)(11)(iii) of this section. Include the information in paragraph (a)(11)(i) of this section in each annual report. Include the information in paragraphs (a)(11)(ii) and (a)(11)(iii) of this section only in the first applicable annual report, and provide any changes to this information in subsequent annual reports.

(i) Name or title of the analytical method.

(ii) A copy of the method. If the method is a modification of a method listed in §§ 98.244(b)(4)(i) through (xiv), you may provide a copy of only the sections that differ from the listed method.

(iii) An explanation of why an alternative to the methods listed in §§ 98.244(b)(4)(i) through (xiv) is needed.

(12) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each carbon-containing feedstock included in Equations X-1, X-2, and X-3 of § 98.243.

(13) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each product included in Equations X-1, X-2, and X-3.

(14) Annual average of the measurements or determinations of the carbon content of each feedstock and product, conducted according to § 98.243(c)(3) or (4).

(i) For feedstocks and products that are gaseous or solid, report this quantity in kg C per kg of feedstock or product.

(ii) For liquid feedstocks and products, report this quantity either in units of kg C per kg of feedstock or product, or kg C per gallon of feedstock or product.

(15) For each gaseous feedstock and product, the annual average of the measurements or determinations of the molecular weight in units of kg per kg mole, conducted according to § 98.243(c)(3) or (4).

(b) If you measure emissions in accordance with § 98.243(b), then you must report the information listed in paragraphs (b)(1) through (10) of this section.

(1) The petrochemical process unit ID or other appropriate descriptor, and the type of petrochemical produced.

(2) For CEMS used on stacks that include emissions from stationary combustion units that burn any amount of off-gas from the petrochemical process, report the relevant information required under § 98.36(c)(2) and (e)(2)(vi) for the Tier 4 calculation methodology. Section 98.36(c)(2)(ii), (ix) and (x) do not apply for the purposes of this subpart.

(3) For CEMS used on stacks that do not include emissions from stationary combustion units, report the information required under § 98.36(b)(6) and (7), (b)(9)(i) and (ii) and (e)(2)(vi).

(4) For each CEMS monitoring location that meets the conditions in paragraph (b)(2) or (3) of this section, provide an estimate based on engineering judgment of the fraction of the total COemissions that results from COdirectly emitted by the petrochemical process unit plus COgenerated by the combustion of off-gas from the petrochemical process unit.

(5) For each CEMS monitoring location that meets the conditions in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, report the CHand NO emissions expressed in metric tons of each gas. For each CEMS monitoring location, provide an estimate based on engineering judgment of the fraction of the total CHand NO emissions that is attributable to combustion of off-gas from the petrochemical process unit.

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Information listed in § 98.256(e) of subpart Y of this part for each flare that burns process off-gas.

(8) Annual quantity of each type of petrochemical produced from each process unit (metric tons). If you are electing to consider the petrochemical process unit to be the entire integrated ethylene dichloride/vinyl chloride monomer process, report the amount of intermediate EDC produced (metric tons). The reported amount of intermediate EDC produced may be a measured quantity or an estimate that is based on process knowledge and best available data.

(9) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each carbon-containing feedstock.

(10) Name and annual quantity (in metric tons) of each product.

(c) If you comply with the combustion methodology specified in § 98.243(d), you must report under this subpart the information listed in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.

(1) The ethylene process unit ID or other appropriate descriptor.

(2) For each stationary combustion unit that burns ethylene process off-gas (or group of stationary sources with a common pipe), except flares, the relevant information listed in § 98.36 for the applicable Tier methodology. For each stationary combustion unit or group of units (as applicable) that burns ethylene process off-gas, provide an estimate based on engineering judgment of the fraction of the total emissions that is attributable to combustion of off-gas from the ethylene process unit.

(3) Information listed in § 98.256(e) of subpart Y of this part for each flare that burns ethylene process off-gas.

(4) Name and annual quantity of each feedstock (metric tons).

(5) Annual quantity of ethylene produced from each process unit (metric tons).
