
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 98.252 GHGs to report.

You must report:

(a) CO, CH, and NO combustion emissions from stationary combustion units and from each flare. Calculate and report the emissions from stationary combustion units under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) by following the requirements of subpart C, except for emissions from combustion of fuel gas. For COemissions from combustion of fuel gas, use either Equation C-5 in subpart C of this part or the Tier 4 methodology in subpart C of this part, unless either of the conditions in paragraphs (a)(1) or (2) of this section are met, in which case use either Equations C-1 or C-2a in subpart C of this part. For CHand NO emissions from combustion of fuel gas, use the applicable procedures in ยง 98.33(c) for the same tier methodology that was used for calculating COemissions. (Use the default CHand NO emission factors for "Fuel Gas" in Table C-2 of this part. For Tier 3, use either the default high heat value for fuel gas in Table C-1 of subpart C of this part or a calculated HHV, as allowed in Equation C-8 of subpart C of this part.) You may aggregate units, monitor common stacks, or monitor common (fuel) pipes as provided in ยง 98.36(c) when calculating and reporting emissions from stationary combustion units. Calculate and report the emissions from flares under this subpart.

(1) The annual average fuel gas flow rate in the fuel gas line to the combustion unit, prior to any split to individual burners or ports, does not exceed 345 standard cubic feet per minute at 60 &#xB0;F and 14.7 pounds per square inch absolute and either of the conditions in paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section exist. Calculate the annual average flow rate using company records assuming total flow is evenly distributed over 525,600 minutes per year.

(i) A flow meter is not installed at any point in the line supplying fuel gas or an upstream common pipe.

(ii) The fuel gas line contains only vapors from loading or unloading, waste or wastewater handling, and remediation activities that are combusted in a thermal oxidizer or thermal incinerator.

(2) The combustion unit has a maximum rated heat input capacity of less than 30 mmBtu/hr and either of the following conditions exist:

(i) A flow meter is not installed at any point in the line supplying fuel gas or an upstream common pipe; or

(ii) The fuel gas line contains only vapors from loading or unloading, waste or wastewater handling, and remediation activities that are combusted in a thermal oxidizer or thermal incinerator.

(b) CO, CH, and NO coke burn-off emissions from each catalytic cracking unit, fluid coking unit, and catalytic reforming unit under this subpart.

(c) COemissions from sour gas sent off site for sulfur recovery operations under this subpart. You must follow the calculation methodologies from ยง 98.253(f) and the monitoring and QA/QC methods, missing data procedures, reporting requirements, and recordkeeping requirements of this subpart.

(d) COprocess emissions from each on-site sulfur recovery plant under this subpart.

(e) CO, CH, and NO emissions from each coke calcining unit under this subpart.

(f) COand CHemissions from asphalt blowing operations under this subpart.

(g) CHemissions from equipment leaks, storage tanks, loading operations, delayed coking units, and uncontrolled blowdown systems under this subpart.

(h) CO, CH, and NO emissions from each process vent not specifically included in paragraphs (a) through (g) of this section under this subpart.

(i) COemissions from non-merchant hydrogen production process units (not including hydrogen produced from catalytic reforming units) following the calculation methodologies, monitoring and QA/QC methods, missing data procedures, reporting requirements, and recordkeeping requirements of subpart P of this part.
