
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart X - Petrochemical Production
###### § 98.247 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(d)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (30) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (d)(1) through (30) of this section.

(1) Indicate whether the feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation X-1 of § 98.243).

(2) Indicate whether you used the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) (Equation X-1).

(3) Volume of gaseous feedstock introduced per month (scf) (Equation X-1).

(4) Mass of gaseous feedstock introduced per month (kg) (Equation X-1).

(5) Average carbon content of the gaseous feedstock per month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation X-1).

(6) Molecular weight of gaseous feedstock per month (kg per kg-mole) (Equation X-1).

(7) Indicate whether the gaseous product is measured as mass or volume (Equation X-1).

(8) Volume of gaseous product produced per month (scf) (Equation X-1).

(9) Mass of gaseous product produced per month (kg) (Equation X-1).

(10) Average carbon content of gaseous product (including streams containing COrecovered for sale or use in another process) per month (kg C per kg of product) (Equation X-1).

(11) Molecular weight of gaseous product per month (kg per kg-mole) (Equation X-1).

(12) Molar volume conversion factor of product (scf per kg-mole) (Equation X-1).

(13) Indicate whether feedstock is measured as mass or volume (Equation X-2 of § 98.243).

(14) Indicate whether you used the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) (Equation X-2).

(15) Volume of liquid feedstock introduced per month (gallons) (Equation X-2).

(16) Mass of liquid feedstock introduced per month (kg) (Equation X-2).

(17) Average carbon content of liquid feedstock per month (kg C per gallon) (Equation X-2).

(18) Average carbon content of liquid feedstock per month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation X-2).

(19) Indicate whether product is measured as mass or volume per month (Equation X-2).

(20) Volume of liquid product produced per month (gallons) (Equation X-2).

(21) Mass of liquid product produced per month (kg) (Equation X-2).

(22) Average carbon content of liquid product per month, including organic liquid wastes (kg C per gallon) (Equation X-2).

(23) Average carbon content of liquid product, including organic liquid wastes (kg C per kg of product) (Equation X-2).

(24) Indicate whether you used the alternative to sampling and analysis specified in § 98.243(c)(4) (Equation X-3 of § 98.243).

(25) Mass of solid feedstock introduced per month (kg) (Equation X-3).

(26) Average carbon content of solid feedstock per month (kg C per kg of feedstock) (Equation X-3).

(27) Mass of solid product produced per month (kg) (Equation X-3).

(28) Average carbon content of solid product per month (kg C per kg of product) (Equation X-3).

(29) Records required in § 98.257(b)(1) through (8) of this section for each flare that burns ethylene process off-gas.

(30) Records required in § 98.37 for each stationary fuel combustion unit (or group of stationary sources with a common pipe) that burns ethylene process off-gas, except flares.
