
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 98.253 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Alternative to heat value or carbon content measurements.

(iii)If you do not measure the higher heating value or carbon content of the flare gas at least weekly, determine the quantity of gas discharged to the flare separately for periods of routine flare operation and for periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction, and calculate the COemissions as specified in paragraphs (b)(1)(iii)(A) through (b)(1)(iii)(C) of this section.

(A) For periods of start-up, shutdown, or malfunction, use engineering calculations and process knowledge to estimate the carbon content of the flared gas for each start-up, shutdown, or malfunction event exceeding 500,000 scf/day.

(B) For periods of normal operation, use the average higher heating value measured for the fuel gas used as flare sweep or purge gas for the higher heating value of the flare gas. If higher heating value of the fuel gas is not measured, the higher heating value of the flare gas under normal operations may be estimated from historic data or engineering calculations.

(C) Calculate the COemissions using Equation Y-3 of this section.

(2) Calculate CHusing Equation Y-4 of this section.

(3) Calculate NO emissions using Equation Y-5 of this section.

(c) For catalytic cracking units and traditional fluid coking units, calculate the GHG emissions using the applicable methods described in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(5) of this section.

(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures COemissions according to subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), you must calculate and report COemissions as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Other catalytic cracking units and traditional fluid coking units must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Combustion Sources), or follow the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2) or (3) of this section.

(i) Calculate COemissions by following the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).
