
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### § 98.253 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### e.g.,,e.g.,

(ii) For catalytic cracking units whose process emissions are discharged through a combined stack with other COemissions (co-mingled with emissions from a CO boiler) you must also calculate the other COemissions using the applicable methods for the applicable subpart (subpart C of this part in the case of a CO boiler). Calculate the process emissions from the catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit as the difference in the COCEMS emissions and the calculated emissions associated with the additional units discharging through the combined stack.

(2) For catalytic cracking units and fluid coking units with rated capacities greater than 10,000 barrels per stream day (bbls/sd) that do not use a continuous COCEMS for the final exhaust stack, you must continuously or no less frequently than hourly monitor the O, CO, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels and calculate the COemissions according to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section:

(i) Calculate the COemissions from each catalytic cracking unit and fluid coking unit using Equation Y-6 of this section.

(ii) Either continuously monitor the volumetric flow rate of exhaust gas from the fluid catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels or calculate the volumetric flow rate of this exhaust gas stream using either Equation Y-7a or Equation Y-7b of this section.

(iii) If you have a CO boiler that uses auxiliary fuels or combusts materials other than catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit exhaust gas, you must determine the COemissions resulting from the combustion of these fuels or other materials following the requirements in subpart C and report those emissions by following the requirements of subpart C of this part.

(3) For catalytic cracking units and fluid coking units with rated capacities of 10,000 barrels per stream day (bbls/sd) or less that do not use a continuous COCEMS for the final exhaust stack, comply with the requirements in paragraph (c)(3)(i) of this section or paragraphs (c)(3)(ii) and (c)(3)(iii) of this section, as applicable.

(i) If you continuously or no less frequently than daily monitor the O, CO, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels, you must calculate the COemissions according to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section, except that daily averages are allowed and the summation can be performed on a daily basis.

(ii) If you do not monitor at least daily the O, CO, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic cracking unit regenerator or fluid coking unit burner prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels, calculate the COemissions from each catalytic cracking unit and fluid coking unit using Equation Y-8 of this section.

(iii) If you have a CO boiler that uses auxiliary fuels or combusts materials other than catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit exhaust gas, you must determine the COemissions resulting from the combustion of these fuels or other materials following the requirements in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources) and report those emissions by following the requirements of subpart C of this part.

(4) Calculate CHemissions using either unit specific measurement data, a unit-specific emission factor based on a source test of the unit, or Equation Y-9 of this section.

(5) Calculate NO emissions using either unit specific measurement data, a unit-specific emission factor based on a source test of the unit, or Equation Y-10 of this section.

(d) For fluid coking units that use the flexicoking design, the GHG emissions from the resulting use of the low value fuel gas must be accounted for only once. Typically, these emissions will be accounted for using the methods described in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). Alternatively, you may use the methods in paragraph (c) of this section provided that you do not otherwise account for the subsequent combustion of this low value fuel gas.

(e) For catalytic reforming units, calculate the COemissions using the applicable methods described in paragraphs (e)(1) through (e)(3) of this section and calculate the CHand NO emissions using the methods described in paragraphs (c)(4) and (c)(5) of this section, respectively.

(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures COemissions according to subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), you must calculate COemissions as provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this section. Other catalytic reforming units must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part, or follow the requirements of paragraph (e)(2) or (e)(3) of this section.

(2) If you continuously or no less frequently than daily monitor the O, CO, and (if necessary) CO concentrations in the exhaust stack from the catalytic reforming unit catalyst regenerator prior to the combustion of other fossil fuels, you must calculate the COemissions according to the requirements of paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(iii) of this section.

(3) Calculate COemissions from the catalytic reforming unit catalyst regenerator using Equation Y-11 of this section.

(f) For on-site sulfur recovery plants and for sour gas sent off site for sulfur recovery, calculate and report COprocess emissions from sulfur recovery plants according to the requirements in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(5) of this section, or, for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants, according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section regardless of the concentration of COin the vented gas stream. Combustion emissions from the sulfur recovery plant (e.g., from fuel combustion in the Claus burner or the tail gas treatment incinerator) must be reported under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). For the purposes of this subpart, the sour gas stream for which monitoring is required according to paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(5) of this section is not considered a fuel.

(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures COemissions according to subpart C of this part, you must calculate COemissions under this subpart by following the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). You must monitor fuel use in the Claus burner, tail gas incinerator, or other combustion sources that discharge via the final exhaust stack from the sulfur recovery plant and calculate the combustion emissions from the fuel use according to subpart C of this part. Calculate the process emissions from the sulfur recovery plant as the difference in the COCEMS emissions and the calculated combustion emissions associated with the sulfur recovery plant final exhaust stack. Other sulfur recovery plants must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C, or follow the requirements of paragraphs (f)(2) through (f)(5) of this section, or (for non-Claus sulfur recovery plants only) follow the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section to determine COemissions for the sulfur recovery plant.

(2) Flow measurement. If you have a continuous flow monitor on the sour gas feed to the sulfur recovery plant or the sour gas feed sent for off-site sulfur recovery, you must use the measured flow rates when the monitor is operational to calculate the sour gas flow rate. If you do not have a continuous flow monitor on the sour gas feed to the sulfur recovery plant or the sour gas feed sent for off-site sulfur recovery, you must use engineering calculations, company records, or similar estimates of volumetric sour gas flow.

(3) Carbon content. If you have a continuous gas composition monitor capable of measuring carbon content on the sour gas feed to the sulfur recovery plant or the sour gas feed sent for off-site for sulfur recovery, or if you monitor gas composition for carbon content on a routine basis, you must use the measured carbon content value. Alternatively, you may develop a site-specific carbon content factor using limited measurement data or engineering estimates or use the default factor of 0.20.

(4) Calculate the COemissions from each on-site sulfur recovery plant and for sour gas sent off-site for sulfur recovery using Equation Y-12 of this section.

(5) If tail gas is recycled to the front of the sulfur recovery plant and the recycled flow rate and carbon content is included in the measured data under paragraphs (f)(2) and (f)(3) of this section, respectively, then the annual COemissions calculated in paragraph (f)(4) of this section must be corrected to avoid double counting these emissions. You may use engineering estimates to perform this correction or assume that the corrected COemissions are 95 percent of the uncorrected value calculated using Equation Y-12 of this section.

(g) For coke calcining units, calculate GHG emissions according to the applicable provisions in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(3) of this section.

(1) If you operate and maintain a CEMS that measures COemissions according to subpart C of this part, you must calculate and report COemissions under this subpart by following the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in § 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources). You must monitor fuel use in the coke calcining unit that discharges via the final exhaust stack from the coke calcining unit and calculate the combustion emissions from the fuel use according to subpart C of this part. Calculate the process emissions from the coke calcining unit as the difference in the COCEMS emissions and the calculated combustion emissions associated with the coke calcining unit final exhaust stack. Other coke calcining units must either install a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part, or follow the requirements of paragraph (g)(2) of this section.

(2) Calculate the COemissions from the coke calcining unit using Equation Y-13 of this section.

(3) For all coke calcining units, use the COemissions from the coke calcining unit calculated in paragraphs (g)(1) or (g)(2), as applicable, and calculate CHusing the methods described in paragraph (c)(4) of this section and NO emissions using the methods described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section.

(h) For asphalt blowing operations, calculate COand CHemissions according to the requirements in paragraph (j) of this section regardless of the COand CHconcentrations or according to the applicable provisions in paragraphs (h)(1) and (h)(2) of this section.

(1) For uncontrolled asphalt blowing operations or asphalt blowing operations controlled either by vapor scrubbing or by another non-combustion control device, calculate COand CHemissions using Equations Y-14 and Y-15 of this section, respectively.

(2) For asphalt blowing operations controlled by either a thermal oxidizer, a flare, or other vapor combustion control device, calculate COusing either Equation Y-16a or Y-16b of this section and calculate CHemissions using Equation Y-17 of this section, provided these emissions are not already included in the flare emissions calculated in paragraph (b) of this section or in the stationary combustion unit emissions required under subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(i) For each delayed coking unit, calculate the CHemissions from delayed decoking operations (venting, draining, deheading, and coke-cutting) according to the requirements in paragraphs (i)(1) through (5) of this section.

(1) Determine the typical dry mass of coke produced per cycle from company records of the mass of coke produced by the delayed coking unit. Alternatively, you may estimate the typical dry mass of coke produced per cycle based on the delayed coking unit vessel (coke drum) dimensions and typical coke drum outage at the end of the coking cycle using Equation Y-18a of this section.

(2) Determine the typical mass of water in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the cooling cycle prior to venting to the atmosphere using Equation Y-18b of this section.

(3) Determine the average temperature of the delayed coking unit vessel when the drum is first vented to the atmosphere using either Equation Y-18c or Y-18d of this section, as appropriate, based on the measurement system available.

(4) Determine the typical mass of steam generated and released per decoking cycle using Equation Y-18e of this section.

(5) Calculate the CHemissions from decoking operations at each delayed coking unit using Equation Y-18f of this section.

(j) For each process vent not covered in paragraphs (a) through (i) of this section that can reasonably be expected to contain greater than 2 percent by volume COor greater than 0.5 percent by volume of CHor greater than 0.01 percent by volume (100 parts per million) of NO, calculate GHG emissions using Equation Y-19 of this section. You must also use Equation Y-19 of this section to calculate CHemissions for catalytic reforming unit depressurization and purge vents when methane is used as the purge gas, and COand/or CHemissions, as applicable, if you elected this method as an alternative to the methods in paragraph (f), (h), or (k) of this section.

(k) For uncontrolled blowdown systems, you must calculate CHemissions either using the methods for process vents in paragraph (j) of this section regardless of the CHconcentration or using Equation Y-20 of this section. Blowdown systems where the uncondensed gas stream is routed to a flare or similar control device are considered to be controlled and are not required to estimate emissions under this paragraph (k).

(l) For equipment leaks, calculate CHemissions using the method specified in either paragraph (l)(1) or (l)(2) of this section.

(1) Use process-specific methane composition data (from measurement data or process knowledge) and any of the emission estimation procedures provided in the Protocol for Equipment Leak Emissions Estimates (EPA-453/R-95-017, NTIS PB96-175401).

(2) Use Equation Y-21 of this section.

(m) For storage tanks, except as provided in paragraph (m)(3) of this section, calculate CHemissions using the applicable methods in paragraphs (m)(1) and (2) of this section.

(1) For storage tanks other than those processing unstabilized crude oil, you must either calculate CHemissions from storage tanks that have a vapor-phase methane concentration of 0.5 volume percent or more using tank-specific methane composition data (from measurement data or product knowledge) and the emission estimation methods provided in AP 42, Section 7.1 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) or estimate CHemissions from storage tanks using Equation Y-22 of this section.

(2) For storage tanks that process unstabilized crude oil, calculate CHemissions from the storage of unstabilized crude oil using either tank-specific methane composition data (from measurement data or product knowledge) and direct measurement of the gas generation rate or by using Equation Y-23 of this section.

(3) You do not need to calculate CHemissions from storage tanks that meet any of the following descriptions:

(i) Units permanently attached to conveyances such as trucks, trailers, rail cars, barges, or ships;

(ii) Pressure vessels designed to operate in excess of 204.9 kilopascals and without emissions to the atmosphere;

(iii) Bottoms receivers or sumps;

(iv) Vessels storing wastewater; or

(v) Reactor vessels associated with a manufacturing process unit.

(n) For crude oil, intermediate, or product loading operations for which the vapor-phase concentration of methane is 0.5 volume percent or more, calculate CHemissions from loading operations using vapor-phase methane composition data (from measurement data or process knowledge) and the emission estimation procedures provided in AP 42, Section 5.2 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7). For loading operations in which the vapor-phase concentration of methane is less than 0.5 volume percent, you may assume zero methane emissions.
