
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 98.254 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) Fuel flow meters, gas composition monitors, and heating value monitors that are associated with sources that use a CEMS to measure COemissions according to subpart C of this part or that are associated with stationary combustion sources must meet the applicable monitoring and QA/QC requirements in ยง 98.34.

(b) All gas flow meters, gas composition monitors, and heating value monitors that are used to provide data for the GHG emissions calculations in this subpart for sources other than those subject to the requirements in paragraph (a) of this section shall be calibrated according to the procedures specified by the manufacturer, or according to the procedures in the applicable methods specified in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this section. In the case of gas flow meters, all gas flow meters must meet the calibration accuracy requirements in ยง 98.3(i). All gas flow meters, gas composition monitors, and heating value monitors must be recalibrated at the applicable frequency specified in paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) You must recalibrate each gas flow meter according to one of the following frequencies. You may recalibrate at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, biennially (every two years), or at the interval specified by the industry consensus standard practice used.

(2) You must recalibrate each gas composition monitor and heating value monitor according to one of the following frequencies. You may recalibrate at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer, annually, or at the interval specified by the industry standard practice used.
