
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 98.256 Data reporting requirements.
####### i.e.,

(i) The method used to calculate the reported storage tank emissions for storage tanks other than those processing unstabilized crude (either AP 42, Section 7.1 (incorporated by reference, see ยง 98.7), or Equation Y-22 of this section).

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) The cumulative CHemissions (in metric tons of CH) for storage tanks used to process unstabilized crude oil or a statement that the facility did not receive any unstabilized crude oil during the reporting year.

(4) For storage tanks that process unstabilized crude oil:

(i) The method used to calculate the reported unstabilized crude oil storage tank emissions.

(ii)-(iv) [Reserved]

(v) The basis for the mole fraction of CHin vent gas from unstabilized crude oil storage tanks.

(vi) If you did not use Equation Y-23, the tank-specific methane composition data and the annual gas generation volume (scf/yr) used to estimate the cumulative CHemissions for storage tanks used to process unstabilized crude oil.

(5)-(7) [Reserved]

(p) For loading operations, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The cumulative annual CHemissions (in metric tons of each pollutant emitted) for loading operations.

(2) The types of materials loaded that have an equilibrium vapor-phase concentration of methane of 0.5 volume percent or greater, and the type of vessel (barge, tanker, marine vessel, etc.) in which each type of material is loaded.

(3) The type of control system used to reduce emissions from the loading of material with an equilibrium vapor-phase concentration of methane of 0.5 volume percent or greater, if any (submerged loading, vapor balancing, etc.).

(q) Name of each method listed in ยง 98.254 or a description of manufacturer's recommended method used to determine a measured parameter.
