
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### ยง 98.255 Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations is required (e.g., concentrations, flow rates, fuel heating values, carbon content values). Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable (e.g., if a CEMS malfunctions during unit operation or if a required fuel sample is not taken), a substitute data value for the missing parameter shall be used in the calculations.

(a) For stationary combustion sources, use the missing data procedures in subpart C of this part.

(b) For each missing value of the heat content, carbon content, or molecular weight of the fuel, substitute the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident. If the "after" value is not obtained by the end of the reporting year, you may use the "before" value for the missing data substitution. If, for a particular parameter, no quality-assured data are available prior to the missing data incident, the substitute data value shall be the first quality-assured value obtained after the missing data period.

(c) For missing CO, CO, O, CH, or NO concentrations, gas flow rate, and percent moisture, the substitute data values shall be the best available estimate(s) of the parameter(s), based on all available process data (e.g., processing rates, operating hours, etc.). The owner or operator shall document and keep records of the procedures used for all such estimates.

(d) For hydrogen plants, use the missing data procedures in subpart P of this part.
