
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### § 98.254 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(5) ASTM D4891-89 (Reapproved 2006) Standard Test Method for Heating Value of Gases in Natural Gas Range by Stoichiometric Combustion (incorporated by reference,§ 98.7).

(f) For gas flow meters used to comply with the requirements in § 98.253(c)(2)(ii), install, operate, calibrate, and maintain each gas flow meter according to the requirements in 40 CFR 63.1572(c) and the following requirements.

(1) Locate the flow monitor at a site that provides representative flow rates. Avoid locations where there is swirling flow or abnormal velocity distributions due to upstream and downstream disturbances.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) Use a continuous monitoring system capable of correcting for the temperature, pressure, and moisture content to output flow in dry standard cubic feet (standard conditions as defined in § 98.6).

(g) For exhaust gas CO/CO/Ocomposition monitors used to comply with the requirements in § 98.253(c)(2), install, operate, calibrate, and maintain exhaust gas composition monitors according to the requirements in 40 CFR 60.105a(b)(2) or 40 CFR 63.1572(c) or according to the manufacturer's specifications and requirements.

(h) Determine the mass of petroleum coke as required by Equation Y-13 of this subpart using mass measurement equipment meeting the requirements for commercial weighing equipment as described in Specifications, Tolerances, and Other Technical Requirements For Weighing and Measuring Devices, NIST Handbook 44 (2009) (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7). Calibrate the measurement device according to the procedures specified by NIST handbook 44 (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7) or the procedures specified by the manufacturer. Recalibrate either biennially or at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer.

(i) Determine the carbon content of petroleum coke as required by Equation Y-13 of this subpart using any one of the following methods. Calibrate the measurement device according to procedures specified by the method or procedures specified by the measurement device manufacturer.
