
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### § 98.256 Data reporting requirements.
####### e.g.,

(6) If you use a CEMS, the relevant information required under § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, the COannual emissions as measured by the CEMS (unadjusted to remove COcombustion emissions associated with additional units, if present) and the process COemissions as calculated according to § 98.253(c)(1)(ii). Report the COannual emissions associated with sources other than those from the coke burn-off in accordance with the applicable subpart (subpart C of this part in the case of a CO boiler).

(7) If you use Equation Y-6 of § 98.253, the annual average exhaust gas flow rate, %CO, and %CO.

(8) If you use Equation Y-7a of this subpart, the annual average flow rate of inlet air and oxygen-enriched air, %O, %O, %CO, and %CO.

(9) If you use Equation Y-7b of this subpart, the annual average flow rate of inlet air and oxygen-enriched air, %N, and %N

(10) If you use Equation Y-8 of § 98.253, the basis for the value of the average carbon content of coke.

(11) Indicate whether you use a measured value, a unit-specific emission factor, or a default for CHemissions. If you use a unit-specific emission factor for CH, report the basis for the factor.

(12) Indicate whether you use a measured value, a unit-specific emission factor, or a default emission factor for NO emissions. If you use a unit-specific emission factor for NO, report the basis for the factor.

(13) If you use Equation Y-11 of § 98.253, the number of regeneration cycles or measurement periods during the reporting year and the average coke burn-off quantity per cycle or measurement period.

(g) For fluid coking unit of the flexicoking type, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The unit ID number (if applicable).

(2) A description of the type of unit.

(3) Maximum rated throughput of the unit, in bbl/stream day.

(4) Indicate whether the GHG emissions from the low heat value gas are accounted for in subpart C of this part or § 98.253(c).

(5) If the GHG emissions for the low heat value gas are calculated at the flexicoking unit, also report the calculated annual CO, CH, and NO emissions for each unit, expressed in metric tons of each pollutant emitted, and the applicable equation input parameters specified in paragraphs (f)(7) through (f)(13) of this section.

(h) For on-site sulfur recovery plants and for emissions from sour gas sent off-site for sulfur recovery, the owner and operator shall report:

(1) The plant ID number (if applicable).

(2) For each on-site sulfur recovery plant, the maximum rated throughput (metric tons sulfur produced/stream day), a description of the type of sulfur recovery plant, and an indication of the method used to calculate COannual emissions for the sulfur recovery plant (e.g., COCEMS, Equation Y-12, or process vent method in § 98.253(j)).

(3) The calculated COannual emissions for each on-site sulfur recovery plant, expressed in metric tons. The calculated annual COemissions from sour gas sent off-site for sulfur recovery, expressed in metric tons.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) If you recycle tail gas to the front of the sulfur recovery plant, indicate whether the recycled flow rate and carbon content are included in the measured data under § 98.253(f)(2) and (3). Indicate whether a correction for COemissions in the tail gas was used in Equation Y-12 of § 98.253. If so, then report:

(i) Indicate whether you used the default (95 percent) or a unit specific correction, and if a unit-specific correction was used, report the value of the correction and the approach used.

(ii) If the following data are not used to calculate the recycling correction factor, report the information specified in paragraphs (h)(5)(ii)(A) through (B) of this section.

(A) The annual volume of recycled tail gas (in scf/year).

(B) The annual average mole fraction of carbon in the tail gas (in kg-mole C/kg-mole gas).

(6) If you use a CEMS, the relevant information required under § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, the COannual emissions as measured by the CEMS and the annual process COemissions calculated according to § 98.253(f)(1). Report the COannual emissions associated with fuel combustion in accordance with subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(7) If you use the process vent method in § 98.253(j) for a non-Claus sulfur recovery plant, the relevant information required under paragraph (l)(5) of this section.

(i) For coke calcining units, the owner and operator shall report:

(1) The unit ID number (if applicable).

(2) Maximum rated throughput of the unit, in metric tons coke calcined/stream day.

(3) The calculated CO, CH, and NO annual emissions for each unit, expressed in metric tons of each pollutant emitted.

(4) A description of the method used to calculate the COemissions for each unit (e.g., reference section and equation number).

(5) If you use Equation Y-13 of § 98.253, an indication of whether coke dust is recycled to the unit (e.g., all dust is recycled, a portion of the dust is recycled, or none of the dust is recycled).

(6) If you use a CEMS, the relevant information required under § 98.36 for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology, the COannual emissions as measured by the CEMS and the annual process COemissions calculated according to § 98.253(g)(1).

(7) Indicate whether you use a measured value, a unit-specific emission factor or a default emission factor for CHemissions. If you use a unit-specific emission factor for CH, report the basis for the factor.

(8) Indicate whether you use a measured value, a unit-specific emission factor, or a default emission factor for NO emissions. If you use a unit-specific emission factor for NO, report the basis for the factor.

(j) For asphalt blowing operations, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The unit ID number (if applicable).

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The type of control device used to reduce methane (and other organic) emissions from the unit.

(4) The calculated annual COand CHemissions for each unit, expressed in metric tons of each pollutant emitted.

(5) If you use Equation Y-14 of § 98.253, the basis for the COemission factor used.

(6) If you use Equation Y-15 of § 98.253, the basis for the CHemission factor used.

(7) If you use Equation Y-16a of § 98.253, the basis for the carbon emission factor used.

(8) If you use Equation Y-16b of § 98.253, the basis for the COemission factor used and the basis for the carbon emission factor used.

(9) If you use Equation Y-17 of § 98.253, the basis for the CHemission factor used.

(10) If you use Equation Y-19 of this subpart, the relevant information required under paragraph (l)(5) of this section.

(k) For each delayed coking unit, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The unit ID number (if applicable).

(2) Maximum rated throughput of the unit, in bbl/stream day.

(3) Annual quantity of coke produced in the unit during the reporting year, in metric tons.

(4) The calculated annual CHemissions (in metric tons of CH) for the delayed coking unit.

(5) The total number of delayed coking vessels (or coke drums) associated with the delayed coking unit.

(6) The basis for the typical dry mass of coke in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the coking cycle (mass measurements from company records or calculated using Equation Y-18a of this subpart).

(7) An indication of the method used to estimate the average temperature of the coke bed, T(overhead temperature and Equation Y-18c of this subpart or pressure correlation and Equation Y-18d of this subpart).

(8) An indication of whether a unit-specific methane emissions factor or the default methane emission factor was used for the delayed coking unit.

(l) For each process vent subject to § 98.253(j), the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The vent ID number (if applicable).

(2) The unit or operation associated with the emissions.

(3) The type of control device used to reduce methane (and other organic) emissions from the unit, if applicable.

(4) The calculated annual CO, CH, and NO emissions for each vent, expressed in metric tons of each pollutant emitted.

(5) The annual volumetric flow discharged to the atmosphere (in scf), and an indication of the measurement or estimation method, annual average mole fraction of each GHG above the concentration threshold or otherwise required to be reported and an indication of the measurement or estimation method, and for intermittent vents, the number of venting events and the cumulative venting time.

(m) For uncontrolled blowdown systems, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) An indication of whether the uncontrolled blowdown emission are reported under § 98.253(k) or § 98.253(j) or a statement that the facility does not have any uncontrolled blowdown systems.

(2) The cumulative annual CHemissions (in metric tons of CH) for uncontrolled blowdown systems.

(3) For uncontrolled blowdown systems reporting under § 98.253(k), the basis for the value of the methane emission factor used for uncontrolled blowdown systems.

(4) For uncontrolled blowdown systems reporting under § 98.253(j), the relevant information required under paragraph (l)(5) of this section.

(n) For equipment leaks, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The cumulative CHemissions (in metric tons of each pollutant emitted) for all equipment leak sources.

(2) The method used to calculate the reported equipment leak emissions.

(3) The number of each type of emission source listed in Equation Y-21 of this subpart at the facility.

(o) For storage tanks, the owner or operator shall report:

(1) The cumulative annual CHemissions (in metric tons of CH) for all storage tanks, except for those used to process unstabilized crude oil.

(2) For storage tanks other than those processing unstabilized crude oil:
