
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### § 98.257 Records that must be retained.
####### i.e.,

(43) Typical distance from the top of the delayed coking unit vessel to the top of the coke bed (coke drum outage) at the end of the coking cycle (feet) from company records or engineering estimates (Equation Y-18a in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(44) Diameter of delayed coking unit vessel (feet) (Equations Y-18a and Y-18b in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(45) Mass of water in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the cooling cycle prior to atmospheric venting (metric ton/cycle) (Equations Y-18b and Y-18e in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(46) Typical distance from the bottom of the coking unit vessel to the top of the water level at the end of the cooling cycle just prior to atmospheric venting (feet) from company records or engineering estimates (Equation Y-18b in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(47) Mass of steam generated and released per decoking cycle (metric tons/cycle) (Equations Y-18e and Y-18f in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(48) Average temperature of the delayed coking unit vessel when the drum is first vented to the atmosphere ( &#xB0;F) (Equations Y-18c, Y-18d, and Y-18e in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(49) Temperature of the delayed coking unit vessel overhead line measured as near the coking unit vessel as practical just prior to venting the atmosphere (Equation Y-18c in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(50) Pressure of the delayed coking unit vessel just prior to opening the atmospheric vent (psig) (Equation Y-18d in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(51) Methane emission factor for delayed coking unit (kilograms CHper metric ton of steam; kg CH/mt steam) (Equation Y-18f in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(52) Cumulative number of decoking cycles (or coke-cutting cycles) for all delayed coking unit vessels associated with the delayed coking unit during the year (Equation Y-18f in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(53) Average volumetric flow rate of process gas during the event from measurement data, process knowledge, or engineering estimates for each set of coke drums or vessels of the same size (scf per hour) (Equation Y-19 of § 98.253).

(54) Mole fraction of methane in process vent during the event from measurement data, process knowledge, or engineering estimates for each set of coke drums or vessels of the same size (kg-mole CH/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-19).

(55) Venting time for the event for each set of coke drums or vessels of the same size (hours) (Equation Y-19).

(56) Molar volume conversion factor for each set of coke drums or vessels of the same size (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-19).

(57) Quantity of crude oil plus the quantity of intermediate products received from off site that are processed at the facility (MMbbl/year) (Equation Y-20 of § 98.253).

(58) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-20).

(59) Methane emission factor for uncontrolled blown systems (scf CH/MMbbl) (Equation Y-20).

(60) Quantity of crude oil plus the quantity of intermediate products received from off site that are processed at the facility (MMbbl/year) (Equation Y-22 of § 98.253).

(61) Quantity of unstabilized crude oil received at the facility (MMbbl/year) (Equation Y-23 of § 98.253).

(62) Pressure differential from the previous storage pressure to atmospheric pressure (psi) (Equation Y-23).

(63) Average mole fraction of CHin vent gas from the unstabilized crude oil storage tanks from facility measurements (kg-mole CH/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-23).

(64) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-23).

(65) Specify whether the calculated or default loading factor L specified in § 98.253(n) is entered, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(66) Saturation factor specified in § 98.253(n), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(67) True vapor pressure of liquid loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (psia) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(68) Molecular weight of vapors (lb per lb-mole), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(69) Temperature of bulk liquid loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (&#xB0;R, degrees Rankine) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(70) Total loading loss (without efficiency correction), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (pounds per 1000 gallons loaded) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(71) Overall emission control system reduction efficiency, including the vapor collection system efficiency and the vapor recovery or destruction efficiency (enter zero if no emission controls), for each liquid loaded to each vessel (percent) (methods specified § 98.253(n)).

(72) Vapor phase concentration of methane in liquid loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (percent by volume) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).

(73) Quantity of material loaded, for each liquid loaded to each vessel (thousand gallon per year) (methods specified in § 98.253(n)).
