
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Z - Phosphoric Acid Production
###### ยง 98.266 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) through (f) of this section.

(a) Annual phosphoric acid production, by origin of the phosphate rock (tons).

(b) Annual phosphoric acid production capacity (tons).

(c) Annual arithmetic average percent inorganic carbon or carbon dioxide in phosphate rock from monthly records (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction).

(d) Annual phosphate rock consumption from monthly measurement records by origin (tons).

(e) If you use a CEMS to measure COemissions, then you must report the information in paragraphs (e)(1) and (e)(2) of this section.

(1) The identification number of each wet-process phosphoric acid process line.

(2) The annual COemissions from each wet-process phosphoric acid process line (metric tons) and the relevant information required under 40 CFR 98.36 (e)(2)(vi) for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology.

(f) If you do not use a CEMS to measure emissions, then you must report the information in paragraphs (f)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) Identification number of each wet-process phosphoric acid process line.

(2) Annual COemissions from each wet-process phosphoric acid process line (metric tons) as calculated by either Equation Z-1a or Equation Z-1b of this subpart.

(3) Annual phosphoric acid production capacity (tons) for each wet-process phosphoric acid process line.

(4) Method used to estimate any missing values of inorganic carbon content or carbon dioxide content of phosphate rock for each wet-process phosphoric acid process line.

(5) [Reserved]

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Number of wet-process phosphoric acid process lines.

(8) Number of times missing data procedures were used to estimate phosphate rock consumption (months), inorganic carbon contents of the phosphate rock (months), and COcontents of the phosphate rock (months).

(9) Annual process COemissions from phosphoric acid production facility (metric tons).
