
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Z - Phosphoric Acid Production
###### ยง 98.264 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) You must obtain a monthly grab sample of phosphate rock directly from the rock being fed to the process line before it enters the mill using one of the following methods. You may conduct the representative bulk sampling using a method published by a consensus standards organization, or you may use industry consensus standard practice methods, including but not limited to the Phosphate Mining States Methods Used and Adopted by the Association of Fertilizer and Phosphate Chemists (AFPC). If phosphate rock is obtained from more than one origin in a month, you must obtain a sample from each origin of rock or obtain a composite representative sample.

(b) You must determine the carbon dioxide or inorganic carbon content of each monthly grab sample of phosphate rock (consumed in the production of phosphoric acid). You may use a method published by a consensus standards organization, or you may use industry consensus standard practice methods, including but not limited to the Phosphate Mining States Methods Used and Adopted by AFPC.

(c) You must determine the mass of phosphate rock consumed each month (by origin) in each wet-process phosphoric acid process line. You can use existing plant procedures that are used for accounting purposes (such as sales records) or you can use data from existing monitoring equipment that is used to measure total mass flow of phosphorous-bearing feed under 40 CFR part 60 or part 63.
