
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart Y - Petroleum Refineries
###### § 98.257 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(b)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (73) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (b)(1) through (73) of this section.

(1) Volume of flare gas combusted during measurement period (scf) (Equation Y-1b of § 98.253).

(2) Mole percent COconcentration in the flare gas stream during the measurement period (mole percent) (Equation Y-1b).

(3) Mole percent concentration of compound "x" in the flare gas stream during the measurement period (mole percent) (Equation Y-1b).

(4) Carbon mole number of compound "x" in the flare gas stream during the measurement period (mole carbon atoms per mole compound) (Equation Y-1b).

(5) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-1b).

(6) Annual volume of flare gas combusted for each flare during normal operations from company records (million (MM) standard cubic feet per year, MMscf/year) (Equation Y-3 of § 98.253).

(7) Higher heating value for fuel gas or flare gas for each flare from company records (British thermal units per scf, Btu/scf = MMBtu/MMscf) (Equation Y-3).

(8) Volume of flare gas combusted during indexed start-up, shutdown, or malfunction event from engineering calculations (scf) (Equation Y-3).

(9) Average molecular weight of the flare gas, from the analysis results or engineering calculations for the event (kg/kg-mole) (Equation Y-3).

(10) Molar volume conversion factor (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-3).

(11) Average carbon content of the flare gas, from analysis results or engineering calculations for the event (kg C per kg flare gas) (Equation Y-3).

(12) Weight fraction of carbon in the flare gas prior to combustion in each flare that is contributed by methane from measurement values or engineering calculations (kg C in methane in flare gas/kg C in flare gas) (Equation Y-4 of § 98.253).

(13) Annual throughput of unit from company records for each catalytic cracking unit or fluid coking unit (barrels/year) (Equation Y-8 of § 98.253).

(14) Coke burn-off factor from engineering calculations (default for catalytic cracking units = 7.3; default for fluid coking units = 11) (kg coke per barrel of feed) (Equation Y-8).

(15) Carbon content of coke based on measurement or engineering estimate (kg C per kg coke) (Equation Y-8).

(16) Value of unit-specific CHemission factor, including the units of measure, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, catalytic reforming unit, and coke calcining unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(4)).

(17) Annual activity data (e.g., input or product rate), including the units of measure, in units of measure consistent with the emission factor, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, catalytic reforming unit, and coke calcining unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(4)).

(18) Value of unit-specific NO emission factor, including the units of measure, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, catalytic reforming unit, and coke calcining unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(5)).

(19) Annual activity data (e.g., input or product rate), including the units of measure, in units of measure consistent with the emission factor, for each catalytic cracking unit, traditional fluid coking unit, catalytic reforming unit, and coke calcining unit (calculation method in § 98.253(c)(5)).

(20) Carbon content of coke based on measurement or engineering estimate (default = 0.94) (kg C per kg coke) (Equation Y-11 of § 98.253).

(21) Volumetric flow rate of sour gas (including sour water stripper gas) feed sent off site for sulfur recovery in the year (scf/year) (Equation Y-12 of § 98.253).

(22) Mole fraction of carbon in the sour gas feed sent off site for sulfur recovery (kg-mole C/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-12).

(23) Molar volume conversion factor for sour gas sent off site (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-12).

(24) Volumetric flow rate of sour gas (including sour water stripper gas) fed to the onsite sulfur recovery plant (scf/year) (Equation Y-12).

(25) Mole fraction of carbon in the sour gas fed to the onsite sulfur recovery plant (kg-mole C/kg-mole gas) (Equation Y-12).

(26) Molar volume conversion factor for onsite sulfur recovery plant (scf per kg-mole) (Equation Y-12).

(27) Annual mass of green coke fed to the coke calcining unit from facility records (metric tons/year) (Equation Y-13 of § 98.253).

(28) Annual mass of marketable petroleum coke produced by the coke calcining unit from facility records (metric tons/year) (Equation Y-13).

(29) Annual mass of petroleum coke dust removed from the process through the dust collection system of the coke calcining unit from facility records. For coke calcining units that recycle the collected dust, the mass of coke dust removed from the process is the mass of coke dust collected less the mass of coke dust recycled to the process (metric tons/year) (Equation Y-13).

(30) Average mass fraction carbon content of green coke from facility measurement data (metric tons C per metric ton green coke) (Equation Y-13).

(31) Average mass fraction carbon content of marketable petroleum coke produced by the coke calcining unit from facility measurement data (metric tons C per metric ton petroleum coke (Equation Y-13).

(32) Quantity of asphalt blown for each asphalt blowing unit (million barrels per year (MMbbl/year)) (Equation Y-14 of § 98.253).

(33) Emission factor for COfrom uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CO/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-14).

(34) Emission factor for CHfrom uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CH/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-15 of § 98.253).

(35) Quantity of asphalt blown (million barrels/year (MMbbl/year)) (Equation Y-16a of § 98.253).

(36) Carbon emission factor from asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data (metric tons C/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-16a).

(37) Quantity of asphalt blown for each asphalt blowing unit (million barrels per year (MMbbl/year)) (Equation Y-16b of § 98.253).

(38) Emission factor for COfrom uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CO/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-16b).

(39) Carbon emission factor from asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons C/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-16b).

(40) Emission factor for CHfrom uncontrolled asphalt blowing from facility-specific test data for each asphalt blowing unit (metric tons CH/MMbbl asphalt blown) (Equation Y-17 of § 98.253).

(41) Typical dry mass of coke in the delayed coking unit vessel at the end of the coking cycle (metric tons/cycle) from company records or calculated using Equation Y-18a of this subpart (Equations Y-18a, Y-18b and Y-18e in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.

(42) Internal height of delayed coking unit vessel (feet) (Equation Y-18a in § 98.253) for each delayed coking unit.
