
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart AA - Pulp and Paper Manufacturing
###### ยง 98.274 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(3) Carbon analyses for spent pulping liquor must be determined no less than annually using ASTM D5373-08 Standard Test Methods for Instrumental Determination of Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen in Laboratory Samples of Coal (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7). If measurements using ASTM D5373-08 are performed more frequently than annually, then the spent pulping liquor carbon content used in Equation AA-2 of this subpart must be based on the average of the representative measurements made during the year.

(c) Each facility must keep records that include a detailed explanation of how company records of measurements are used to estimate GHG emissions. The owner or operator must also document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the measurements of fuel, spent liquor solids, and makeup chemical usage, including, but not limited to calibration of weighing equipment, fuel flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must be recorded and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided. The procedures used to convert spent pulping liquor flow rates to units of mass (i.e., spent liquor solids firing rates) also must be documented.

(d) Records must be made available upon request for verification of the calculations and measurements.
