
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart AA - Pulp and Paper Manufacturing
###### § 98.273 Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) For each chemical recovery furnace located at a kraft or soda facility, you must determine CO, biogenic CO, CH, and NO emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this section. CHand NO emissions must be calculated as the sum of emissions from combustion of fossil fuels and combustion of biomass in spent liquor solids.

(1) Calculate fossil fuel-based COemissions from direct measurement of fossil fuels consumed and default emissions factors according to the Tier 1 methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(a)(1). Tiers 2 or 3 from § 98.33(a)(2) or (3) may be used to calculate fossil fuel-based COemissions if the respective monitoring and QA/QC requirements described in § 98.34 are met.

(2) Calculate fossil fuel-based CHand NO emissions from direct measurement of fossil fuels consumed, default or site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors and convert to metric tons of COequivalent according to the methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(c).

(3) Calculate biogenic COemissions and emissions of CHand NO from biomass using measured quantities of spent liquor solids fired, site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors, according to Equation AA-1 of this section:

(b) For each chemical recovery combustion unit located at a sulfite or stand-alone semichemical facility, you must determine CO, CH, and NO emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(4) of this section:

(1) Calculate fossil COemissions from fossil fuels from direct measurement of fossil fuels consumed and default emissions factors according to the Tier 1 Calculation Methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(a)(1). Tiers 2 or 3 from § 98.33(a)(2) or (3) may be used to calculate fossil fuel-based COemissions if the respective monitoring and QA/QC requirements described in § 98.34 are met.

(2) Calculate CHand NO emissions from fossil fuels from direct measurement of fossil fuels consumed, default or site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors and convert to metric tons of COequivalent according to the methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(c).

(3) Calculate biogenic COemissions using measured quantities of spent liquor solids fired and the carbon content of the spent liquor solids, according to Equation AA-2 of this section:

(4) Calculate CHand NO emissions from biomass using Equation AA-1 of this section and the default CHand NO emissions factors for kraft facilities in Table AA-1 of this subpart and convert the CHor NO emissions to metric tons of COequivalent by multiplying each annual CHand NO emissions total by the appropriate global warming potential (GWP) factor from Table A-1 of subpart A of this part.

(c) For each pulp mill lime kiln located at a kraft or soda facility, you must determine CO, CH, and NO emissions using the procedures in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section:

(1) Calculate COemissions from fossil fuel from direct measurement of fossil fuels consumed and default HHV and default emissions factors, according to the Tier 1 Calculation Methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(a)(1). Tiers 2 or 3 from § 98.33(a)(2) or (3) may be used to calculate fossil fuel-based COemissions if the respective monitoring and QA/QC requirements described in § 98.34 are met.

(2) Calculate CHand NO emissions from fossil fuel from direct measurement of fossil fuels consumed, default or site-specific HHV, and default emissions factors and convert to metric tons of COequivalent according to the methodology for stationary combustion sources in § 98.33(c); use the default HHV listed in Table C-1 of subpart C and the default CHand NO emissions factors listed in Table AA-2 of this subpart.

(3) Biogenic COemissions from conversion of CaCOto CaO are included in the biogenic COestimates calculated for the chemical recovery furnace in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(d) For makeup chemical use, you must calculate COemissions by using direct or indirect measurement of the quantity of chemicals added and ratios of the molecular weights of COand the makeup chemicals, according to Equation AA-3 of this section:
