
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart AA - Pulp and Paper Manufacturing
###### ยง 98.275 Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable (e.g., if a meter malfunctions during unit operation or if a required sample is not taken), a substitute data value for the missing parameter shall be used in the calculations, according to the requirements of paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section:

(a) There are no missing data procedures for measurements of heat content and carbon content of spent pulping liquor. A re-test must be performed if the data from any annual measurements are determined to be invalid.

(b) For missing measurements of the mass of spent liquor solids or spent pulping liquor flow rates, use the lesser value of either the maximum mass or fuel flow rate for the combustion unit, or the maximum mass or flow rate that the fuel meter can measure. Alternatively, records of the daily spent liquor solids firing rate obtained to comply with ยง 63.866(c)(1) of this chapter may be used, adjusting for the duration of the missing measurements, as appropriate.

(c) For the use of makeup chemicals (carbonates), the substitute data value shall be the best available estimate of makeup chemical consumption, based on available data (e.g., past accounting records, production rates). The owner or operator shall document and keep records of the procedures used for all such estimates.
