
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart AA - Pulp and Paper Manufacturing
###### § 98.277 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(g)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in § 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (27) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (g)(1) through (27) of this section.

(1) Mass of the solid fuel combusted (tons/year) (Equation C-1 of § 98.33).

(2) Volume of the liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (Equation C-1).

(3) Volume of the gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (Equation C-1).

(4) Annual natural gas usage (therms/year) (Equation C-1a of § 98.33).

(5) Annual natural gas usage (mmBtu/year) (Equation C-1b of § 98.33).

(6) Mass of the solid fuel combusted (tons/year) (Equation C-2a of § 98.33).

(7) Volume of the liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (Equation C-2a).

(8) Volume of the gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (Equation C-2a).

(9) Annual mass of the solid fuel combusted (short tons/year) (Equation C-3 of § 98.33).

(10) Annual average carbon content of the solid fuel (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation C-3).

(11) Annual volume of the liquid fuel combusted (gallons/year) (Equation C-4 of § 98.33).

(12) Annual average carbon content of the liquid fuel (kg C per gallon of fuel) (Equation C-4).

(13) Annual volume of the gaseous fuel combusted (scf/year) (Equation C-5 of § 98.33).

(14) Annual average carbon content of the gaseous fuel (kg C per kg of fuel) (Equation C-5).

(15) Annual average molecular weight of the gaseous fuel (kg/kg-mole) (Equation C-5).

(16) Molar volume conversion factor at standard conditions, as defined in § 98.6 (scf per kg-mole) (Equation C-5).

(17) Identify if you will use the default high heat value from Table C-1 of subpart C of this part, or actual HHV data (Equation C-8 of § 98.33).

(18) High heat value of the fuel (mmBTU/tons) (Equation C-8).

(19) High heat value of the fuel (mmBTU/gallons) (Equation C-8).

(20) High heat value of the fuel (mmBTU/scf) (Equation C-8).

(21) Mass of spent liquor solids combusted from each chemical recovery furnace located at a kraft or soda facility, in short tons in year, determined according to § 98.274(b) (tons/year) (Equation AA-1 of § 98.273).

(22) Annual high heat value of the spent liquor solids from each chemical recovery furnace located at a kraft or soda facility determined according to § 98.274(b) (mmBtu per kilogram) (Equation AA-1).

(23) Annual high heat value of the spent liquor solids from each chemical recovery combustion unit located at a sulfite or stand-alone semichemical facility, determined according to § 98.274(b) (mmBtu per kilogram) (Equation AA-1).

(24) Mass of the spent liquor solids combusted in short tons per year determined according to § 98.274(b) (tons/year) (Equation AA-2 of § 98.273).

(25) Annual carbon content of the spent liquor solids, determined according to § 98.274(b) (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction (e.g., 95% = 0.95)) (Equation AA-2).

(26) Make-up quantity of CaCOused for the reporting year (metric tons/year) (Equation AA-3 of § 98.273).

(27) Make-up quantity of NaCOused for the reporting year metric tons/year) (Equation AA-3).
