
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart CC - Soda Ash Manufacturing
###### § 98.294 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

Section 98.293 provides three different procedures for emission calculations. The appropriate paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section should be used for the procedure chosen.

(a) If you determine your emissions using § 98.293(b)(2) (Equation CC-1 of this subpart) you must:

(1) Determine the monthly inorganic carbon content of the trona from a weekly composite analysis for each soda ash manufacturing line, using a modified version of ASTM E359-00 (Reapproved 2005)e1, Standard Test Methods for Analysis of Soda Ash (Sodium Carbonate) (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7). ASTM E359-00(Reapproved 2005) e1 is designed to measure the total alkalinity in soda ash not in trona. The modified method referred to above adjusts the regular ASTM method to express the results in terms of trona. Although ASTM E359-00 (Reapproved 2005) e1 uses manual titration, suitable autotitrators may also be used for this determination.

(2) Measure the mass of trona input to each soda ash manufacturing line on a monthly basis using belt scales or methods used for accounting purposes.

(3) Document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the monthly measurements of trona consumed.

(b) If you calculate COprocess emissions based on soda ash production (§ 98.293(b)(2) Equation CC-2 of this subpart), you must:

(1) Determine the inorganic carbon content of the soda ash (i.e., soda ash purity) using ASTM E359-00 (Reapproved 2005) e1 Standard Test Methods for Analysis of Soda Ash (Sodium Carbonate) (incorporated by reference, see § 98.7). Although ASTM E359-00 (Reapproved 2005) e1 uses manual titration, suitable autotitrators may also be used for this determination.

(2) Measure the mass of soda ash produced by each soda ash manufacturing line on a monthly basis using belt scales, by weighing the soda ash at the truck or rail loadout points of your facility, or methods used for accounting purposes.

(3) Document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the monthly measurements of soda ash produced.

(c) If you calculate COemissions using the site-specific emission factor method in § 98.293(b)(3), you must:

(1) Conduct an annual performance test that is based on representative performance (i.e., performance based on normal operating conditions) of the affected process.

(2) Sample the stack gas and conduct three emissions test runs of 1 hour each.

(3) Conduct the stack test using EPA Method 3A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 to measure the COconcentration, Method 2, 2A, 2C, 2D, or 2F at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1 or Method 26 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-2 to determine the stack gas volumetric flow rate. All QA/QC procedures specified in the reference test methods and any associated performance specifications apply. For each test, the facility must prepare an emission factor determination report that must include the items in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) through (c)(3)(iii) of this section.

(i) Analysis of samples, determination of emissions, and raw data.

(ii) All information and data used to derive the emissions factor(s).

(iii) You must determine the average process vent flow rate from the mine water stripper/evaporater during each test and document how it was determined.

(4) You must also determine the annual vent flow rate from the mine water stripper/evaporater from monthly information using the same plant instruments or procedures used for accounting purposes (i.e., volumetric flow meter).
