
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart CC - Soda Ash Manufacturing
###### § 98.297 Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by § 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each soda ash manufacturing line.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must retain under this subpart the records required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology specified in subpart C of this part and the information listed in this paragraph (a):

(1) Monthly production of soda ash (tons)

(2) Monthly consumption of trona or liquid alkaline feedstock (tons)

(3) Annual operating hours (hours).

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure emissions, then you must retain records for the information listed in this paragraph (b):

(1) Records of all analyses and calculations conducted for determining all reported data as listed in § 98.296(b).

(2) If using Equation CC-1 or CC-2 of this subpart, weekly inorganic carbon content factor of trona or soda ash, depending on method chosen, as measured by the applicable method in § 98.294(b) (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction).

(3) Annual operating hours for each manufacturing line used to produce soda ash (hours).

(4) You must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the monthly trona consumption or soda ash production measurements including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.

(5) If you produce soda ash using the liquid alkaline feedstock process and use the site-specific emission factor method to estimate emissions (§ 98.293(b)(3)) then you must also retain the following relevant information:

(i) Records of performance test results.

(ii) You must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the annual average vent flow measurements including, but not limited to, calibration of flow rate meters and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.
