
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart DD - Electrical Transmission and Distribution Equipment Use
###### ยง 98.306 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information for each electric power system, by chemical:

(a) Nameplate capacity of equipment (pounds) containing SFand nameplate capacity of equipment (pounds) containing each PFC:

(1) Existing at the beginning of the year (excluding hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear).

(2) New hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(3) New equipment other than hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(4) Retired hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(5) Retired equipment other than hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(b) Transmission miles (length of lines carrying voltages above 35 kilovolts).

(c) Distribution miles (length of lines carrying voltages at or below 35 kilovolts).

(d) Pounds of SFand PFC stored in containers, but not in energized equipment, at the beginning of the year.

(e) Pounds of SF6 and PFC stored in containers, but not in energized equipment, at the end of the year.

(f) Pounds of SFand PFC purchased in bulk from chemical producers or distributors.

(g) Pounds of SFand PFC purchased from equipment manufacturers or distributors with or inside equipment, including hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear.

(h) Pounds of SFand PFC returned to facility after off-site recycling.

(i) Pounds of SFand PFC in bulk and contained in equipment sold to other entities.

(j) Pounds of SFand PFC returned to suppliers.

(k) Pounds of SFand PFC sent off-site for recycling.

(l) Pounds of SFand PFC sent off-site for destruction.

(m) State(s) or territory in which the facility lies.

(n) The number of SF- or PFC-containing pieces of equipment in each of the following equipment categories:

(1) New hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(2) New equipment other than hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(3) Retired hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.

(4) Retired equipment other than hermetically sealed-pressure switchgear during the year.
