
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart FF - Underground Coal Mines
###### ยง 98.323 Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) For each ventilation shaft, vent hole, or centralized point into which CHfrom multiple shafts and/or vent holes are collected, you must calculate the quarterly CHliberated from the ventilation system using Equation FF-1 of this section. You must measure CHcontent, flow rate, temperature, pressure, and moisture content of the gas using the procedures outlined in ยง 98.324.

(1) The quarterly periods are:

(i) January 1-March 31.

(ii) April 1-June 30.

(iii) July 1-September 30.

(iv) October 1-December 31.

(2) Values of V, C, T, P, and, if applicable, (f), must be based on measurements taken at least once each quarter with no fewer than 6 weeks between measurements. If measurements are taken more frequently than once per quarter, then use the average value for all measurements taken. If continuous measurements are taken, then use the average value over the time period of continuous monitoring.

(3) If a facility has more than one monitoring point, the facility must calculate total CHliberated from ventilation systems (CH) as the sum of the CHfrom all ventilation monitoring points in the mine, as follows:

(b) For each monitoring point in the degasification system (this could be at each degasification well and/or vent hole, or at more centralized points into which CHfrom multiple wells and/or vent holes are collected), you must calculate the weekly CHliberated from the mine using CHmeasured weekly or more frequently (including by CEMS) according to 98.234(c), CHcontent, flow rate, temperature, pressure, and moisture content, and Equation FF-3 of this section.

(1) Values for V, C, T, P, and, if applicable, (f), must be based on measurements taken at least once each calendar week with at least 3 days between measurements. If measurements are taken more frequently than once per week, then use the average value for all measurements taken that week. If continuous measurements are taken, then use the average values over the time period of continuous monitoring when the continuous monitoring equipment is properly functioning.

(2) Quarterly total CHliberated from degasification systems for the mine must be determined as the sum of CHliberated determined at each of the monitoring points in the mine, summed over the number of weeks in the quarter, as follows:

(c) If gas from a degasification system or ventilation system is sold, used onsite, or otherwise destroyed (including by flaring or VAM oxidation), you must calculate the quarterly CHdestroyed for each destruction device and each point of offsite transport to a destruction device, using Equation FF-5 of this section. You must measure CHcontent and flow rate according to the provisions in ยง 98.324, and calculate the methane routed to the destruction device (CH) using either Equation FF-1 or Equation FF-4 of this section, as applicable.

(1) Calculate total CHdestroyed as the sum of the methane destroyed at all destruction devices (onsite and offsite), using Equation FF-6 of this section.

(2) [Reserved]

(d) You must calculate the quarterly measured net CHemissions to the atmosphere using Equation FF-7 of this section.

(e) For the methane collected from degasification and/or ventilation systems that is destroyed on site and is not a fuel input for energy generation or use (those emissions are monitored and reported under Subpart C of this part), you must estimate the COemissions using Equation FF-8 of this section.
