
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart EE - Titanium Dioxide Production
###### ยง 98.316 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the information specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) of this section, as applicable for each titanium dioxide production line.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must report the relevant information required under ยง 98.36(e)(2)(vi) for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology and the following information in this paragraph (a).

(1) Identification number of each process line.

(2) Annual consumption of calcined petroleum coke (tons).

(3) Annual production of titanium dioxide (tons).

(4) Annual production capacity of titanium dioxide (tons).

(5) Annual production of carbon-containing waste (tons), if applicable.

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must report the information listed in this paragraph (b):

(1) Identification number of each process line.

(2) Annual COemissions from each chloride process line (metric tons/year).

(3) Annual consumption of calcined petroleum coke for each process line (tons).

(4) Annual production of titanium dioxide for each process line (tons).

(5) Annual production capacity of titanium dioxide for each process line (tons).

(6) [Reserved]

(7) Annual production of carbon-containing waste for each process line (tons), if applicable.

(8) Monthly production of titanium dioxide for each process line (tons).

(9) [Reserved]

(10) Whether monthly carbon content of the petroleum coke is based on reports from the supplier or through self measurement using applicable ASTM standard methods.

(11) Carbon content for carbon-containing waste for each process line (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction).

(12) If carbon content of petroleum coke is based on self measurement, the ASTM standard methods used.

(13) Sampling analysis results of carbon content of petroleum coke as determined for QA/QC of supplier data under ยง 98.314(d) (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction).

(14) Number of separate chloride process lines located at the facility.

(15) The number of times in the reporting year that missing data procedures were followed to measure the carbon contents of petroleum coke (number of months); petroleum coke consumption (number of months); carbon-containing waste generated (number of months); and carbon contents of the carbon-containing waste (number of times during year).
