
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart EE - Titanium Dioxide Production
###### ยง 98.317 Records that must be retained.

In addition to the records required by ยง 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section for each titanium dioxide production facility.

(a) If a CEMS is used to measure COemissions, then you must retain under this subpart required for the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.37 and the information listed in this paragraph (a):

(1) Records of all calcined petroleum coke purchases.

(2) Annual operating hours for each titanium dioxide process line.

(b) If a CEMS is not used to measure COemissions, then you must retain records for the information listed in this paraghraph:

(1) Records of all calcined petroleum coke purchases (tons).

(2) Records of all analyses and calculations conducted for all reported data as listed in ยง 98.316(b).

(3) Sampling analysis results for carbon content of consumed calcined petroleum coke (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction).

(4) Sampling analysis results for the carbon content of carbon containing waste (percent by weight expressed as a decimal fraction), if applicable.

(5) Monthly production of carbon-containing waste (tons).

(6) You must document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the monthly petroleum coke consumption and quantity of carbon-containing waste measurement including, but not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices must also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates must be provided.

(7) Annual operating hours for each titanium dioxide process line (hours).
