
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart FF - Underground Coal Mines
###### ยง 98.326 Data reporting requirements.
####### e.g.,

(e) Quarterly COemissions from on-site destruction of coal mine gas CH, where the gas is not a fuel input for energy generation or use (flaring) (metric tons CO).

(f) Quarterly volumetric flow rate for each ventilation monitoring point and units of measure (scfm or acfm), date and location of each measurement, and method of measurement (quarterly sampling or continuous monitoring), used in Equation FF-1 of this subpart. Specify whether the volumetric flow rate measurement at each ventilation monitoring point is on dry basis or wet basis; and, if a flow meter is used, indicate whether or not the flow meter automatically corrects for moisture content.

(g) Quarterly CHconcentration for each ventilation monitoring point, dates and locations of each measurement, and method of measurement (sampling or continuous monitoring). Specify whether the CHconcentration measurement at each ventilation monitoring point is on dry basis or wet basis.

(h) Weekly volumetric flow rate used to calculate CHliberated from degasification systems and units of measure (acfm or scfm), and method of measurement (sampling or continuous monitoring), used in Equation FF-3 of this subpart. Specify whether the volumetric flow rate measurement at each degasification monitoring point is on dry basis or wet basis; and, if a flow meter is used, indicate whether or not the flow meter automatically corrects for moisture content.

(i) Quarterly CHconcentration (%) used to calculate CHliberated from degasification systems, and if the data is based on CEMS or weekly sampling. Specify whether the CHconcentration measurement at each degasification monitoring point is on dry basis or wet basis.

(j) Weekly volumetric flow rate used to calculate CHdestruction for each destruction device and each point of offsite transport, and units of measure (acfm or scfm).

(k) Weekly CHconcentration (%) used to calculate CHflow to each destruction device and each point of offsite transport (C).

(l) Dates in quarterly reporting period where active ventilation of mining operations is taking place.

(m) Dates in quarterly reporting period where degasification of mining operations is taking place.

(n) Dates in quarterly reporting period when continuous monitoring equipment is not properly functioning, if applicable.

(o) Temperature (&#xB0;R), pressure (atm), moisture content (if applicable), and the moisture correction factor (if applicable) used in Equations FF-1 and FF-3 of this subpart; and the gaseous organic concentration correction factor, if Equation FF-9 of this subpart was required. Moisture content is required to be reported only if CHconcentration is measured on a wet basis and volumetric flow is measured on a dry basis, if CHconcentration is measured on a dry basis and volumetric flow is measured on a wet basis; and, if a flow meter is used, the flow meter does not automatically correct for moisture content.

(p) For each destruction device, a description of the device, including an indication of whether destruction occurs at the coal mine or off-site. If destruction occurs at the mine, also report an indication of whether a back-up destruction device is present at the mine, the annual operating hours for the primary destruction device, the annual operating hours for the back-up destruction device (if present), and the destruction efficiencies assumed (percent).

(q) A description of the gas collection system (manufacturer, capacity, and number of wells) the surface area of the gas collection system (square meters), and the annual operating hours of the gas collection system.

(r) Identification information and description for each well, shaft, and vent hole, including paragraphs (r)(1) through (r)(3) of this section:

(1) Indication of whether the well, shaft, or vent hole is monitored individually, or as part of a centralized monitoring point. Note which method (sampling or continuous monitoring) was used.

(2) Start date and close date of each well, shaft, and vent hole. If the well, shaft, or vent hole is operating through the end of the reporting year, December 31st of the reporting year shall be the close date for purposes of reporting.

(3) Number of days the well, shaft, or vent hole was in operation during the reporting year. To obtain the number of days in the reporting year, divide the total number of hours that the system was in operation by 24 hours per day.

(s) For each centralized monitoring point, identification of the wells and shafts included in the point. Note which method (sampling or continuous monitoring) was used.

(t) Mine Safety and Health Administration (MSHA) identification for this coal mine.
