
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart GG - Zinc Production
###### ยง 98.333 Calculating GHG emissions.

You must calculate and report the annual process COemissions using the procedures specified in either paragraph (a) or (b) of this section.

(a) Calculate and report under this subpart the process or combined process and combustion COemissions by operating and maintaining a CEMS according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources).

(b) Calculate and report under this subpart the process COemissions by following paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) For each Waelz kiln or electrothermic furnace at your facility used for zinc production, you must determine the mass of carbon in each carbon-containing material, other than fuel, that is fed, charged, or otherwise introduced into each Waelz kiln and electrothermic furnace at your facility for each year and calculate annual COprocess emissions from each affected unit at your facility using Equation GG-1 of this section. For electrothermic furnaces, carbon containing input materials include carbon eletrodes and carbonaceous reducing agents. For Waelz kilns, carbon containing input materials include carbonaceous reducing agents. If you document that a specific material contributes less than 1 percent of the total carbon into the process, you do not have to include the material in your calculation using Equation R-1 of ยง 98.183.

(2) You must determine the COemissions from all of the Waelz kilns or electrothermic furnaces at your facility using Equation GG-2 of this section.

(c) If GHG emissions from a Waelz kiln or electrothermic furnace are vented through the same stack as any combustion unit or process equipment that reports COemissions using a CEMS that complies with the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in subpart C of this part (General Stationary Fuel Combustion Sources), then the calculation methodology in paragraph (b) of this section shall not be used to calculate process emissions. The owner or operator shall report under this subpart the combined stack emissions according to the Tier 4 Calculation Methodology in ยง 98.33(a)(4) and all associated requirements for Tier 4 in subpart C of this part.
