
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart GG - Zinc Production
###### ยง 98.337 Records that must be retained.
####### Verification software records.

(c)You must keep a record of the file generated by the verification software specified in ยง 98.5(b) for the applicable data specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section. Retention of this file satisfies the recordkeeping requirement for the data in paragraphs (c)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) Annual mass of zinc bearing material charged to kiln or furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1 of ยง 98.333).

(2) Carbon content of the zinc bearing material, from the annual carbon analysis for kiln or furnace (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).

(3) Annual mass of flux materials (e.g., limestone, dolomite) charged to each kiln or furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1).

(4) Carbon content of the flux materials charged to each kiln or furnace, from the annual carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).

(5) Annual mass of carbon electrode consumed in each furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1).

(6) Carbon content of the carbon electrode consumed in each furnace, from the annual carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).

(7) Annual mass of carbonaceous materials (e.g., coal, coke) charged to each kiln or furnace (tons) (Equation GG-1).

(8) Carbon content of the carbonaceous materials charged to each kiln or furnace, from the annual carbon analysis (percent by weight, expressed as a decimal fraction) (Equation GG-1).

(9) Identify whether each unit is a Waelz kiln or an electrothermic furnace.
