
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart HH - Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
###### ยง 98.343 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### e.g.,

(ii) Determine the working capacity in units of mass for each type of container or vehicle used to haul waste to the landfill (using volumetric capacity and waste density measurements; direct measurement of a selected number of passenger vehicles and light duty pick-up trucks; or similar methods); record the number of loads received at the landfill by vehicle/container type; calculate the annual mass per vehicle/container type as the mass product of the number of loads of that vehicle/container multiplied by its working capacity; and calculate the annual quantity of waste received as the sum of the annual mass per vehicle/container type across all of the vehicle/container types used to haul waste to the landfill.

(4) For years prior to the first emissions reporting year, use methods in paragraph (a)(3) of this section when waste disposal quantity data are readily available. When waste disposal quantity data are not readily available, Wshall be estimated using one of the applicable methods in paragraphs (a)(4)(i) through (a)(4)(iii) of this section. You must determine which method is most applicable to the conditions and disposal history of your facility. Historical waste disposal quantities should only be determined once, as part of the first annual report, and the same values should be used for all subsequent annual reports, supplemented by the next year's data on new waste disposal.

(i) Assume all prior years waste disposal quantities are the same as the waste quantity in the first year for which waste quantities are available.

(ii) Use the estimated population served by the landfill in each year, the values for national average per capita waste disposal rates found in Table HH-2 to this subpart, and calculate the waste quantity landfilled using Equation HH-2 of this section.

(iii) Use a constant average waste disposal quantity calculated using Equation HH-3 of this section for each year the landfill was in operation (i.e., from the first year accepting waste until the last year for which waste disposal data is unavailable, inclusive).

(b) For landfills with gas collection systems, calculate the quantity of CHdestroyed according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(1) If you continuously monitor the flow rate, CHconcentration, temperature, pressure, and, if necessary, moisture content of the landfill gas that is collected and routed to a destruction device (before any treatment equipment) using a monitoring meter specifically for CHgas, as specified in ยง 98.344, you must use this monitoring system and calculate the quantity of CHrecovered for destruction using Equation HH-4 of this section. A fully integrated system that directly reports CHcontent requires no other calculation than summing the results of all monitoring periods for a given year.

(2) If you do not continuously monitor according to paragraph (b)(1) of this section, you must determine the flow rate, CHconcentration, temperature, pressure, and moisture content of the landfill gas that is collected and routed to a destruction device (before any treatment equipment) according to the requirements in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (b)(2)(iii) of this section and calculate the quantity of CHrecovered for destruction using Equation HH-4 of this section.

(i) Continuously monitor gas flow rate and determine the cumulative volume of landfill gas each month and the cumulative volume of landfill gas each year that is collected and routed to a destruction device (before any treatment equipment). Under this option, the gas flow meter is not required to automatically correct for temperature, pressure, or, if necessary, moisture content. If the gas flow meter is not equipped with automatic correction for temperature, pressure, or, if necessary, moisture content, you must determine these parameters as specified in paragraph (b)(2)(iii) of this section.

(ii) Determine the CHconcentration in the landfill gas that is collected and routed to a destruction device (before any treatment equipment) in a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter at least once each calendar month; if only one measurement is made each calendar month, there must be at least fourteen days between measurements.

(iii) If the gas flow meter is not equipped with automatic correction for temperature, pressure, or, if necessary, moisture content:

(A) Determine the temperature and pressure in the landfill gas that is collected and routed to a destruction device (before any treatment equipment) in a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter at least once each calendar month; if only one measurement is made each calendar month, there must be at least fourteen days between measurements.

(B) If the CHconcentration is determined on a dry basis and flow is determined on a wet basis or CHconcentration is determined on a wet basis and flow is determined on a dry basis, and the flow meter does not automatically correct for moisture content, determine the moisture content in the landfill gas that is collected and routed to a destruction device (before any treatment equipment) in a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter at least once each calendar month; if only one measurement is made each calendar month, there must be at least fourteen days between measurements.

(c) For all landfills, calculate CHgeneration (adjusted for oxidation in cover materials) and actual CHemissions (taking into account any CHrecovery, and oxidation in cover materials) according to the applicable methods in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.

(1) Calculate CHgeneration, adjusted for oxidation, from the modeled CH(Gfrom Equation HH-1 of this section) using Equation HH-5 of this section.

(2) For landfills that do not have landfill gas collection systems, the CHemissions are equal to the CHgeneration (MG) calculated in Equation HH-5 of this section.

(3) For landfills with landfill gas collection systems, calculate CHemissions using the methodologies specified in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (c)(3)(ii) of this section.

(i) Calculate CHemissions from the modeled CHgeneration and measured CHrecovery using Equation HH-6 of this section.

(ii) Calculate CHgeneration and CHemissions using measured CHrecovery and estimated gas collection efficiency and Equations HH-7 and HH-8 of this section.
