
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart HH - Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
###### ยง 98.345 Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG emissions calculations is required. Therefore, whenever a quality-assured value of a required parameter is unavailable (e.g., if a meter malfunctions during unit operation or if a required fuel sample is not taken), a substitute data value for the missing parameter shall be used in the calculations, according to the requirements in paragraphs (a) through (c) of this section.

(a) For each missing value of the CHcontent, the substitute data value shall be the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident. If the "after" value is not obtained by the end of the reporting year, you may use the "before" value for the missing data substitution. If, for a particular parameter, no quality-assured data are available prior to the missing data incident, the substitute data value shall be the first quality-assured value obtained after the missing data period.

(b) For missing gas flow rates, the substitute data value shall be the arithmetic average of the quality-assured values of that parameter immediately preceding and immediately following the missing data incident. If the "after" value is not obtained by the end of the reporting year, you may use the "before" value for the missing data substitution. If, for a particular parameter, no quality-assured data are available prior to the missing data incident, the substitute data value shall be the first quality-assured value obtained after the missing data period.

(c) For missing daily waste disposal quantity data for disposal in the reporting year, the substitute value shall be the average daily waste disposal quantity for that day of the week as measured on the week before and week after the missing daily data.
