
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart HH - Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
###### ยง 98.344 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(3) ASTM D1946-90 (Reapproved 2006), Standard Practice for Analysis of Reformed Gas by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7).

(4) GPA Standard 2261-00, Analysis for Natural Gas and Similar Gaseous Mixtures by Gas Chromatography.

(5) UOP539-97 Refinery Gas Analysis by Gas Chromatography (incorporated by reference, see ยง 98.7).

(6) As an alternative to the gas chromatography methods provided in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section, you may use total gaseous organic concentration analyzers and calculate the methane concentration following the requirements in paragraphs (b)(6)(i) through (b)(6)(iii) of this section.

(i) Use Method 25A or 25B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 to determine total gaseous organic concentration. You must calibrate the instrument with methane and determine the total gaseous organic concentration as carbon (or as methane; K = 1 in Equation 25A-1 of Method 25A at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7).

(ii) Determine a non-methane organic carbon correction factor at the routine sampling location no less frequently than once a reporting year following the requirements in paragraphs (b)(6)(ii)(A) through (b)(6)(ii)(C) of this section.

(A) Take a minimum of three grab samples of the landfill gas with a minimum of 20 minutes between samples and determine the methane composition of the landfill gas using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(5) of this section.

(B) As soon as practical after each grab sample is collected and prior to the collection of a subsequent grab sample, determine the total gaseous organic concentration of the landfill gas using either Method 25A or 25B at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-7 as specified in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this section.

(C) Determine the arithmetic average methane concentration and the arithmetic average total gaseous organic concentration of the samples analyzed according to paragraphs (b)(6)(ii)(A) and (b)(6)(ii)(B) of this section, respectively, and calculate the non-methane organic carbon correction factor as the ratio of the average methane concentration to the average total gaseous organic concentration. If the ratio exceeds 1, use 1 for the non-methane organic carbon correction factor.

(iii) Calculate the methane concentration as specified in Equation HH-9 of this section.

(c) For landfills with gas collection systems, install, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas flow meter capable of measuring the volumetric flow rate of the recovered landfill gas using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(8) of this section or as specified by the manufacturer. Each gas flow meter shall be recalibrated either biennially (every 2 years) or at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer. Except as provided in ยง 98.343(b)(2)(i), each gas flow meter must be capable of correcting for the temperature and pressure and, if necessary, moisture content.
