
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart HH - Municipal Solid Waste Landfills
###### ยง 98.344 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(7) ASME MFC-18M-2001 Measurement of Fluid Flow using Variable Area Meters (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7).

(8) Method 2A or 2D at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-1.

(d) All temperature, pressure, and if necessary, moisture content monitors must be calibrated using the procedures and frequencies specified by the manufacturer.

(e) For landfills electing to measure the fraction by volume of CHin landfill gas (F), follow the requirements in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section. (1) Use a gas composition monitor capable of measuring the concentration of CHon a dry basis that is properly operated, calibrated, and maintained according to the requirements specified in paragraph (b) of this section. You must either use a gas composition monitor that is also capable of measuring the Oconcentration correcting for excess (infiltration) air or you must operate, maintain, and calibrate a second monitor capable of measuring the Oconcentration on a dry basis according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(2) Use Equation HH-10 of this section to correct the measured CHconcentration to 0% oxygen. If multiple CHconcentration measurements are made during the reporting year, determine F separately for each measurement made during the reporting year, and use the results to determine the arithmetic average value of F for use in Equation HH-1 of this part.

(f) The owner or operator shall document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of disposal quantities and, if applicable, gas flow rate, gas composition, temperature, pressure, and moisture content measurements. These procedures include, but are not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, fuel flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices, and the technical basis for these estimates shall be recorded.
