
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart II - Industrial Wastewater Treatment
###### ยง 98.354 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### e.g.,,see,see

(c) You must collect samples representing wastewater influent to the anaerobic wastewater treatment process, following all preliminary and primary treatment steps (after grit removal, primary clarification, oil-water separation, dissolved air flotation, or similar solids and oil separation processes). You must collect and analyze samples for COD or BODconcentration at least once each calendar week that the anaerobic wastewater treatment process is operating; if only one measurement is made each calendar week, there must be at least three days between measurements. You must collect a sample that represents the average COD or BODconcentration of the waste stream over a 24-hour sampling period. You must collect a minimum of four sample aliquots per 24-hour period and composite the aliquots for analysis. Collect a flow-proportional composite sample (either constant time interval between samples with sample volume proportional to stream flow, or constant sample volume with time interval between samples proportional to stream flow). Follow sampling procedures and techniques presented in Chapter 5, Sampling, of the "NPDES Compliance Inspection Manual," (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7) or Section 7.1.3, Sample Collection Methods, of the "U.S. EPA NPDES Permit Writers' Manual," (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7).

(d) You must measure the flowrate of wastewater entering anaerobic wastewater treatment process at least once each calendar week that the process is operating; if only one measurement is made each calendar week, there must be at least three days between measurements. You must measure the flowrate for the 24-hour period for which you collect samples analyzed for COD or BODconcentration. The flow measurement location must correspond to the location used to collect samples analyzed for COD or BODconcentration. You must measure the flowrate using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(5) of this section or as specified by the manufacturer.
