
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart II - Industrial Wastewater Treatment
###### ยง 98.354 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### see

(5) ASTM D5614-94 (Reapproved 2008) Standard Test Method for Open Channel Flow Measurement of Water with Broad-Crested Weirs, approved October 1, 2008, (incorporated by reference,ยง 98.7).

(e) All wastewater flow measurement devices must be calibrated prior to the first year of reporting and recalibrated either biennially (every 2 years) or at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer. Wastewater flow measurement devices must be calibrated using the procedures specified by the device manufacturer.

(f) For each anaerobic process (such as anaerobic reactor, sludge digester, or lagoon) from which biogas is recovered, you must make the measurements or determinations specified in paragraphs (f)(1) through (f)(3) of this section.

(1) You must continuously measure the biogas flow rate as specified in paragraph (h) of this section and determine the cumulative volume of biogas recovered.

(2) You must determine the CHconcentration of the recovered biogas as specified in paragraph (g) of this section at a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter. You must determine CHconcentration either continuously or intermittently. If you determine the concentration intermittently, you must determine the concentration at least once each calendar week that the cumulative biogas flow measured as specified in paragraph (h) of this section is greater than zero, with at least three days between measurements.

(3) As specified in ยง 98.353(c) and paragraph (h) of this section, you must determine temperature, pressure, and moisture content as necessary to accurately determine the biogas flow rate and CHconcentration. You must determine temperature and pressure if the gas flow meter or gas composition monitor do not automatically correct for temperature or pressure. You must measure moisture content of the recovered biogas if the biogas flow rate is measured on a wet basis and the CHconcentration is measured on a dry basis. You must also measure the moisture content of the recovered biogas if the biogas flow rate is measured on a dry basis and the CHconcentration is measured on a wet basis.

(g) For each anaerobic process (such as an anaerobic reactor, sludge digester, or lagoon) from which biogas is recovered, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas composition monitor capable of measuring the concentration of CHin the recovered biogas using one of the methods specified in paragraphs (g)(1) through (g)(6) of this section or as specified by the manufacturer.

(1) Method 18 at 40 CFR part 60, appendix A-6.
