
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart II - Industrial Wastewater Treatment
###### § 98.353 Calculating GHG emissions.

(a) For each anaerobic reactor and anaerobic lagoon, estimate the annual mass of CHgenerated according to the applicable requirements in paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(2) of this section.

(1) If you measure the concentration of organic material entering the anaerobic reactors or anaerobic lagoon using methods for the determination of chemical oxygen demand (COD), then estimate annual mass of CHgenerated using Equation II-1 of this section.

(2) If you measure the concentration of organic material entering an anaerobic reactor or anaerobic lagoon using methods for the determination of 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), then estimate annual mass of CHgenerated using Equation II-2 of this section.

(b) For each anaerobic reactor and anaerobic lagoon from which biogas is not recovered, estimate annual CHemissions using Equation II-3 of this section.

(c) For each anaerobic sludge digester, anaerobic reactor, or anaerobic lagoon from which some biogas is recovered, estimate the annual mass of CHrecovered according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(1) and (c)(2) of this section. To estimate the annual mass of CHrecovered, you must continuously monitor biogas flow rate and determine the volume of biogas each week and the cumulative volume of biogas each year that is collected and routed to a destruction device as specified in § 98.354(h). If the gas flow meter is not equipped with automatic correction for temperature, pressure, or, if necessary, moisture content, you must determine these parameters as specified in paragraph (c)(2)(ii) of this section.

(1) If you continuously monitor CHconcentration (and if necessary, temperature, pressure, and moisture content required as specified in § 98.354(f)) of the biogas that is collected and routed to a destruction device using a monitoring meter specifically for CHgas, as specified in § 98.354(g), you must use this monitoring system and calculate the quantity of CHrecovered for destruction using Equation II-4 of this section. A fully integrated system that directly reports CHquantity requires only the summing of results of all monitoring periods for a given year.

(2) If you do not continuously monitor CHconcentration according to paragraph (c)(1) of this section, you must determine the CHconcentration, temperature, pressure, and, if necessary, moisture content of the biogas that is collected and routed to a destruction device according to the requirements in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (c)(2)(ii) of this section and calculate the quantity of CHrecovered for destruction using Equation II-4 of this section.

(i) Determine the CHconcentration in the biogas that is collected and routed to a destruction device in a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter at least once each calendar week; if only one measurement is made each calendar week, there must be least three days between measurements. For a given calendar week, you are not required to determine CHconcentration if the cumulative volume of biogas for that calendar week, determined as specified in paragraph (c) of this section, is zero.

(ii) If the gas flow meter is not equipped with automatic correction for temperature, pressure, or, if necessary, moisture content:

(A) Determine the temperature and pressure in the biogas that is collected and routed to a destruction device in a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter at least once each calendar week; if only one measurement is made each calendar week, there must be at least three days between measurements.

(B) If the CHconcentration is determined on a dry basis and biogas flow is determined on a wet basis, or CHconcentration is determined on a wet basis and biogas flow is determined on a dry basis, and the flow meter does not automatically correct for moisture content, determine the moisture content in the biogas that is collected and routed to a destruction device in a location near or representative of the location of the gas flow meter at least once each calendar week that the cumulative biogas flow measured as specified in § 98.354(h) is greater than zero; if only one measurement is made each calendar week, there must be at least three days between measurements.

(d) For each anaerobic sludge digester, anaerobic reactor, or anaerobic lagoon from which some quantity of biogas is recovered, you must estimate both the annual mass of CHthat is generated, but not recovered, according to paragraph (d)(1) of this section and the annual mass of CHemitted according to paragraph (d)(2) of this section.

(1) Estimate the annual mass of CHthat is generated, but not recovered, using Equation II-5 of this section.

(2) For each anaerobic sludge digester, anaerobic reactor, or anaerobic lagoon from which some quantity of biogas is recovered, estimate the annual mass of CHemitted using Equation II-6 of this section.

(e) Estimate the total mass of CHemitted from all anaerobic processes from which biogas is not recovered (calculated in Eq. II-3) and all anaerobic processes from which some biogas is recovered (calculated in Equation II-6) using Equation II-7 of this section.
