
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart II - Industrial Wastewater Treatment
###### ยง 98.356 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information for each wastewater treatment system.

(a) Identify the anaerobic processes used in the industrial wastewater treatment system to treat industrial wastewater and industrial wastewater treatment sludge, provide a unique identifier for each anaerobic process, indicate the average depth in meters of each anaerobic lagoon, and indicate whether biogas generated by each anaerobic process is recovered. Provide a description or diagram of the industrial wastewater treatment system, identifying the processes used, indicating how the processes are related to each other, and providing a unique identifier for each anaerobic process. Each anaerobic process must be identified as one of the following:

(1) Anaerobic reactor.

(2) Anaerobic deep lagoon (depth more than 2 meters).

(3) Anaerobic shallow lagoon (depth less than 2 meters).

(4) Anaerobic sludge digester.

(b) For each anaerobic wastewater treatment process (reactor, deep lagoon, or shallow lagoon) you must report:

(1) Weekly average COD or BODconcentration of wastewater entering each anaerobic wastewater treatment process, for each week the anaerobic process was operated.

(2) Volume of wastewater entering each anaerobic wastewater treatment process for each week the anaerobic process was operated.

(3) Maximum CHproduction potential (B) used as an input to Equation II-1 or II-2 of this subpart, from Table II-1 to this subpart.

(4) Methane conversion factor (MCF) used as an input to Equation II-1 or II-2 of this subpart, from Table II-1 to this subpart.

(5) Annual mass of CHgenerated by each anaerobic wastewater treatment process, calculated using Equation II-1 or II-2 of this subpart.

(6) If the facility performs an ethanol production processing operation as defined in ยง 98.358, you must indicate if the facility uses a wet milling process or a dry milling process.

(c) For each anaerobic wastewater treatment process from which biogas is not recovered, you must report the annual CHemissions, calculated using Equation II-3 of this subpart.

(d) For each anaerobic wastewater treatment process and anaerobic sludge digester from which some biogas is recovered, you must report:

(1) Annual quantity of CHrecovered from the anaerobic process calculated using Equation II-4 of this subpart.

(2) Total weekly volumetric biogas flow for each week (up to 52 weeks/year) that biogas is collected for destruction.

(3) Weekly average CHconcentration for each week that biogas is collected for destruction.

(4) Weekly average biogas temperature for each week at which flow is measured for biogas collected for destruction, or statement that temperature is incorporated into monitoring equipment internal calculations.

(5) Whether flow was measured on a wet or dry basis, whether CHconcentration was measured on a wet or dry basis, and if required for Equation II-4 of this subpart, weekly average moisture content for each week at which flow is measured for biogas collected for destruction, or statement that moisture content is incorporated into monitoring equipment internal calculations.

(6) Weekly average biogas pressure for each week at which flow is measured for biogas collected for destruction, or statement that pressure is incorporated into monitoring equipment internal calculations.

(7) CHcollection efficiency (CE) used in Equation II-5 of this subpart.

(8) Whether destruction occurs at the facility or off-site. If destruction occurs at the facility, also report whether a back-up destruction device is present at the facility, the annual operating hours for the primary destruction device, the annual operating hours for the back-up destruction device (if present), the destruction efficiency for the primary destruction device, and the destruction efficiency for the back-up destruction device (if present).

(9) For each anaerobic process from which some biogas is recovered, you must report the annual CHemissions, as calculated by Equation II-6 of this subpart.

(e) The total mass of CHemitted from all anaerobic processes from which biogas is not recovered (calculated in Equation II-3 of this subpart) and from all anaerobic processes from which some biogas is recovered (calculated in Equation II-6 of this subpart) using Equation II-7 of this subpart.
