
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart JJ - Manure Management
###### ยง 98.363 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories,

(2) Average annual animal populations for growing populations (meat animals such as beef and veal cattle, market swine, broilers, and turkeys) must be estimated each year using the average number of days each animal is kept at the facility and the number of animals produced annually, and an equation similar or equal to Equation JJ-4 below, adapted from Equation 10.1 inVolume 4, Chapter 10.

(b) For each digester, calculate the total amount of CHemissions, and then sum the emissions from all digesters, as shown in Equation JJ-5 of this section.

(1) For each digester, calculate the annual CHflow to the combustion device (CHC) using Equation JJ-6 of this section. A fully integrated system that directly reports the quantity of CHflow to the digester combustion device requires only summing the results of all monitoring periods for a given year to obtain CHC.

(2) For each digester, calculate the average annual volumetric flow rate, CHconcentration of digester gas, temperature, and pressure at which flow are measured using Equations JJ-7 through JJ-10 of this section.

(3) For each digester, calculate the CHdestruction at the digester combustion device using Equation JJ-11 of this section.

(4) For each digester, calculate the CHleakage using Equation JJ-12 of this section.

(c) For each MMS component, estimate the annual NO emissions and sum for all MMS components to obtain total emissions from the manure management system for all animal types using Equation JJ-13 of this section.

(d) Estimate the annual total facility emissions using Equation JJ-15 of this section.
