
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart JJ - Manure Management
###### ยง 98.360 Definition of the source category.

(a) This source category consists of livestock facilities with manure management systems that emit 25,000 metric tons COe or more per year.

(1) Table JJ-1 presents the minimum average annual animal population by animal group that is estimated to emit 25,000 metric tons COe or more per year. Facilities with an average annual animal population, as described in ยง 98.363(a)(1) and (2), below those listed in Table JJ-1 do not need to report under this rule. A facility with an annual animal population that exceeds those listed in Table JJ-1 should conduct a more thorough analysis to determine applicability.

(2) (i) If a facility has more than one animal group present (e.g., swine and poultry), the facility must determine if they are required to report by calculating the combined animal group factor (CAGF) using equation JJ-1:

(ii) If the calculated CAGF for a facility is less than 1, the facility is not required to report under this rule. If the CAGF is equal to or greater than 1, the facility must use more detailed applicability tables and tools to determine if they are required to report under this rule.

(b) A manure management system (MMS) is a system that stabilizes and/or stores livestock manure, litter, or manure wastewater in one or more of the following system components: Uncovered anaerobic lagoons, liquid/slurry systems with and without crust covers (including but not limited to ponds and tanks), storage pits, digesters, solid manure storage, dry lots (including feedlots), high-rise houses for poultry production (poultry without litter), poultry production with litter, deep bedding systems for cattle and swine, manure composting, and aerobic treatment.

(c) This source category does not include system components at a livestock facility that are unrelated to the stabilization and/or storage of manure such as daily spread or pasture/range/paddock systems or land application activities or any method of manure utilization that is not listed in ยง 98.360(b).

(d) This source category does not include manure management activities located off site from a livestock facility or off-site manure composting operations.
