
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart JJ - Manure Management
###### ยง 98.366 Data reporting requirements.

(a) In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information:

(1) List of manure management system components at the facility.

(2) Fraction of manure from each animal type that is handled in each manure management system component.

(3) Average annual animal population (for each animal type) for static populations or the results of Equation JJ-4 for growing populations.

(4) Average number of days that growing animals are kept at the facility (for each animal type).

(5) The number of animals produced annually for growing populations (for each animal type).

(6) Typical animal mass (for each animal type).

(7) Total facility emissions (results of Equation JJ-15).

(8) CHemissions from manure management system components listed in ยง 98.360(b), except digesters (results of Equation JJ-2).

(9) VS value used (for each animal type).

(10) Bvalue used (for each animal type).

(11) Methane conversion factor used for each MMS component.

(12) Average ambient temperature used to select each methane conversion factor.

(13) NO emissions (results of Equation JJ-13).

(14) N value used for each animal type.

(15) NO emission factor selected for each MMS component.

(b) Facilities with anaerobic digesters must also report:

(1) CHemissions from anaerobic digesters (results of Equation JJ-5).

(2) CHflow to the digester combustion device for each digester (results of Equation JJ-6, or value from fully integrated monitoring system as described in 98.363(b)).

(3) CHdestruction for each digester (results of Equation JJ-11).

(4) CHleakage for each digester (results of Equation JJ-12).

(5) Total annual volumetric biogas flow for each digester (results of Equation JJ-7).

(6) Average annual CHconcentration for each digester (results of Equation JJ-8).

(7) Average annual temperature at which gas flow is measured for each digester (results of Equation JJ-9).

(8) Average annual gas flow pressure at which gas flow is measured for each digester (results of Equation JJ-10).

(9) Destruction efficiency used for each digester.

(10) Number of days per year that each digester was operating.

(11) Collection efficiency used for each digester.
