
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart MM - Suppliers of Petroleum Products
###### ยง 98.393 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Optional procedures for blended products that do not contain biomass.

(i)(1) In the event that a reporter produces, imports, or exports a blended product that does not include biomass, the reporter may calculate emissions for the blended product according to the method in paragraph (i)(2) of this section. In the event that a refiner receives a blended non-crude feedstock that does not include biomass, the refiner may calculate emission for the blended non-crude feedstock according to the method in paragraph (i)(3) of this section. The procedures in this section may be used only if all of the following criteria are met:

(i) The reporter knows the relative proportion of each component of the blend (i.e., the mass or volume percentage).

(ii) Each component of blended product "i" or blended non-crude feedstock "j" meets the strict definition of a product listed in Table MM-1 to subpart MM.

(iii) The blended product or non-crude feedstock is not comprised entirely of natural gas liquids.

(iv) The reporter uses Calculation Method 1.

(v) Solid components are blended only with other solid components.

(2) The reporter must calculate emissions for the blended product using Equation MM-12 of this section in place of Equation MM-1 of this section.

(3) For refineries, the reporter must calculate emissions for the blended non-crude feedstock using Equation MM-13 of this section in place of Equation MM-2 of this section.

(4) For refineries, if a blending component "k" used in paragraph (i)(2) of this section enters the refinery before blending as non-crude feedstock:

(i) The emissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of non-crude feedstock "k" must still be calculated separately using Equation MM-2 of this section and applied in Equation MM-4 of this section.

(ii) The quantity of blending component "k" applied in Equation MM-12 of this section and the quantity of non-crude feedstock "k" applied in Equation MM-2 of this section must be determined using the same method or practice.
