
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart MM - Suppliers of Petroleum Products
###### ยง 98.394 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Determination of quantity.

(a)(1) The quantity of petroleum products, natural gas liquids, and biomass, shall be determined as follows:

(i) Where an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization exists, such a method shall be used. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Gas Association (AGA), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB).

(ii) Where no appropriate standard method developed by a consensus-based standards organization exists, industry standard practices shall be followed.

(iii) For products that are liquid at 60 degrees Fahrenheit and one standard atmosphere, all measurements of quantity shall be temperature-adjusted and pressure-adjusted to these conditions. For all other products, reporters shall use appropriate standard conditions specified in the standard method; if temperature and pressure conditions are not specified in the standard method or if a reporter uses an industry standard practice to determine quantity, the reporter shall use appropriate standard conditions according to established industry practices.

(2) All measurement equipment (including, but not limited to, flow meters and tank gauges) used for compliance with this subpart shall be appropriate for the standard method or industry standard practice followed under paragraph (a)(1)(i) or (a)(1)(ii) of this section.

(3) The annual quantity of crude oil received shall be determined according to one of the following methods. You may use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization or you may use an industry standard practice.
