
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart MM - Suppliers of Petroleum Products
###### ยง 98.394 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Procedures for Calculation Method 2 of this subpart.

(c)(1) Reporting parties shall collect one sample of each petroleum product or natural gas liquid on any day of each calendar month of the reporting year in which the quantity of that product was measured in accordance with the requirements of this subpart. For example, if a given product was measured as entering the refinery continuously throughout the reporting year, twelve samples of that product shall be collected over the reporting year, one on any day of each calendar month of that year. If a given product was only measured from April 15 through June 10 of the reporting year, a refiner would collect three samples during that year, one during each of the calendar months of April, May and June on a day when the product was measured as either entering or exiting the refinery. Each sample shall be collected using an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.

(2) Mixing and handling of samples shall be performed using an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.

(3) Density measurement.

(i) For all products that are not solid, reporters shall test for density using an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.

(ii) The density value for a given petroleum product shall be generated by either making a physical composite of all of the samples collected for the reporting year and testing that single sample or by measuring the individual samples throughout the year and defining the representative density value for the sample set by numerical means, i.e., a mathematical composite. If a physical composite is chosen as the option to obtain the density value, the reporter shall submit each of the individual samples collected during the reporting year to the laboratory responsible for generating the composite sample.

(iii) For physical composites, the reporter shall handle the individual samples and the laboratory shall mix them in accordance with an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.

(iv) All measurements of density shall be temperature-adjusted and pressure-adjusted to the conditions assumed for determining the quantities of the product reported under this subpart.

(4) Carbon share measurement.

(i) Reporters shall test for carbon share using an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.

(ii) If a standard method that involves gas chromatography is used to determine the percent mass of each component in a product, the molecular formula for each component shall be obtained from the information provided in the standard method and the atomic mass of each element in a given molecular component shall be obtained from the periodic table of the elements.

(iii) The carbon share value for a given petroleum product shall be generated by either making a physical composite of all of the samples collected for the reporting year and testing that single sample or by measuring the individual samples throughout the year and defining the representative carbon share value for the sample set by numerical means, i.e., a mathematical composite. If a physical composite is chosen as the option to obtain the carbon share value, the reporter shall submit each of the individual samples collected during the reporting year to the laboratory responsible for generating the composite sample.

(iv) For physical composites, the reporter shall handle the individual samples and the laboratory shall mix them in accordance with an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization.
