
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart MM - Suppliers of Petroleum Products
###### ยง 98.397 Records that must be retained.

(a) All reporters shall retain copies of all reports submitted to EPA under ยง 98.396. In addition, all reporters shall maintain sufficient records to support information contained in those reports, including but not limited to information on the characteristics of their feedstocks and products.

(b) Reporters shall maintain records to support quantities that are reported under this subpart, including records documenting any estimations of missing data and the number of calendar days in the reporting year for which substitute data procedures were followed. For all reported quantities of petroleum products, natural gas liquids, and biomass, reporters shall maintain metering, gauging, and other records normally maintained in the course of business to document product and feedstock flows including the date of initial calibration and the frequency of recalibration for the measurement equipment used.

(c) Reporters shall retain laboratory reports, calculations and worksheets used to estimate the COemissions of the quantities of petroleum products, natural gas liquids, biomass, and feedstocks reported under this subpart.

(d) Reporters shall maintain laboratory reports, calculations and worksheets used in the measurement of density and carbon share for any petroleum product or natural gas liquid for which COemissions were calculated using Calculation Method 2.

(e) Estimates of missing data shall be documented and records maintained showing the calculations.

(f) Reporters described in this subpart shall also retain all records described in ยง 98.3(g).
