
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart NN - Suppliers of Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids
###### ยง 98.400 Definition of the source category.

This supplier category consists of natural gas liquids fractionators and local natural gas distribution companies.

(a) Natural gas liquids fractionators are installations that fractionate natural gas liquids (NGLs) into their constituent liquid products or mixtures of products (ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane or pentanes plus) for supply to downstream facilities.

(b) Local Distribution Companies (LDCs) are companies that own or operate distribution pipelines, not interstate pipelines or intrastate pipelines, that physically deliver natural gas to end users and that are within a single state that are regulated as separate operating companies by State public utility commissions or that operate as independent municipally-owned distribution systems. LDCs do not include pipelines (both interstate and intrastate) delivering natural gas directly to major industrial users and farm taps upstream of the local distribution company inlet.

(c) This supply category does not consist of the following facilities:

(1) Field gathering and boosting stations.

(2) Natural gas processing plants that separate NGLs from natural gas and produce bulk or y-grade NGLs but do not fractionate these NGLs into their constituent products.

(3) Facilities that meet the definition of refineries and report under subpart MM of this part.

(4) Facilities that meet the definition of petrochemical plants and report under subpart X of this part.
