
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart NN - Suppliers of Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids
###### ยง 98.403 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Methodology 1.,e.g.,

(1)NGL fractionators shall estimate COemissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the product(s) supplied using Equation NN-1 of this section. The annual volume of each NGL product supplied (Fuel) shall include any amount of that NGL supplied in a mixture or blend of two or more products listed in Tables NN-1 and NN-2 of this subpart. The annual volume of each NGL product supplied shall exclude any amount of that NGL contained in bulk NGLs exiting the facility (y-grade, o-grade, and other bulk NGLs). LDCs shall estimate COemissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the natural gas received at the city gate (including natural gas that is transported by, but not owned by, the reporter) using Equation NN-1 of this section. For each product, use the default value for higher heating value and COemission factor in Table NN-1 of this subpart. Alternatively, for each product, a reporter-specific higher heating value and COemission factor may be used, in place of one or both defaults provided they are developed using methods outlined in ยง 98.404. For each product, you must use the same volume unit throughout the equation.
