
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart NN - Suppliers of Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids
###### § 98.403 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Calculation Methodology 2.,e.g.,

(2)NGL fractionators shall estimate COemissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the product(s) supplied using Equation NN-2 of this section. The annual volume of each NGL product supplied (Fuel) shall include any amount of that NGL supplied in a mixture or blend of two or more products listed in Tables NN-1 and NN-2 of this subpart. The annual volume of each NGL product supplied shall exclude any amount of that NGL contained in bulk NGLs exiting the facility (y-grade, o-grade, and other bulk NGLs). LDCs shall estimate COemissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the natural gas received at the city gate (including natural gas that is transported by, but not owned by, the reporter) using Equation NN-2 of this section. For each product, use the default COemission factor found in Table NN-2 of this subpart. Alternatively, for each product, a reporter-specific COemission factor may be used in place of the default factor, provided it is developed using methods outlined in § 98.404. For each product, you must use the same volume unit throughout the equation.

(b) Each LDC shall follow the procedures below.

(1) For natural gas that is received for redelivery to downstream gas transmission pipelines and other local distribution companies, use Equation NN-3 of this section and the default values for the COemission factors found in Table NN-2 of this subpart. Alternatively, reporter-specific COemission factors may be used, provided they are developed using methods outlined in § 98.404.

(2)(i) For natural gas delivered to large end-users, use Equation NN-4 of this section and the default values for the COemission factors found in Table NN-2 of this subpart. A large end-user means any end-user facility receiving greater than or equal to 460,000 Mscf of natural gas per year. If the LDC does not know the total quantity of gas delivered to the end-user facility based on readily available information in the LDCs possession, then large end-user means any single meter at an end-user facility to which the LDC delivers equal to or greater than 460,000 Mscf per year.

(ii) Alternatively, reporter-specific COemission factors may be used, provided they are developed using methods outlined in § 98.404.

(3) For the net change in natural gas stored on system by the LDC during the reporting year, use Equation NN-5a of this section. For natural gas that is received by means other than through the city gate, and is not otherwise accounted for by Equation NN-1 or NN-2 of this section, use Equation NN-5b of this section.

(i) For natural gas received by the LDC that is injected into on-system storage, and/or liquefied and stored, and for gas removed from storage and used for deliveries, use Equation NN-5a of this section and the default value for the COemission factors found in Table NN-2 of this subpart. Alternatively, a reporter-specific COemission factor may be used, provided it is developed using methods outlined in § 98.404.

(ii) For natural gas received by the LDC that bypassed the city gate, use Equation NN-5b of this section. This includes natural gas received directly by LDC systems from producers or natural gas processing plants from local production, received as a liquid and vaporized for delivery, or received from any other source that bypassed the city gate. Use the default value for the COemission factors found in Table NN-2 of this subpart. Alternatively, a reporter-specific COemission factor may be used, provided it is developed using methods outlined in § 98.404.

(4) Calculate the total COemissions that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the annual supply of natural gas to end-users that receive a supply less than 460,000 Mscf per year using Equation NN-6 of this section.

(c) Each NGL fractionator shall follow the following procedures.

(1)(i) For fractionated NGLs received by the reporter from other NGL fractionators, you shall use Equation NN-7 of this section and the default values for the COemission factors found in Table NN-2 of this subpart.

(ii) Alternatively, reporter-specific COemission factors may be used, provided they are developed using methods outlined in § 98.404.

(2) Calculate the total COequivalent emissions that would result from the combustion or oxidation of fractionated NGLs supplied less the quantity received from other fractionators using Equation NN-8 of this section.
