
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart NN - Suppliers of Natural Gas and Natural Gas Liquids
###### § 98.406 Data reporting requirements.

(a) In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), the annual report for each NGL fractionator covered by this rule shall contain the following information.

(1) Annual quantity (in barrels) of each NGL product supplied (including fractionated NGL products received from other NGL fractionators) in the following product categories: Ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane, and pentanes plus (Fuelin Equations NN-1 and NN-2 of this subpart).

(2) Annual quantity (in barrels) of each NGL product received from other NGL fractionators in the following product categories: Ethane, propane, normal butane, isobutane, and pentanes plus (Fuelin Equation NN-7 of this subpart).

(3) Annual volumes in Mscf of natural gas received for processing.

(4) Annual quantities (in barrels) of y-grade, o-grade, and other bulk NGLs:

(i) Received.

(ii) Supplied to downstream users.

(5) Annual quantity (in barrels) of propane that the NGL fractionator odorizes at the facility and delivers to others.

(6) Annual COemissions (metric tons) that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the quantities in paragraphs (a)(1) and (a)(2) of this section, calculated in accordance with § 98.403(a) and (c)(1).

(7) Annual COmass emissions (metric tons) that would result from the combustion or oxidation of fractionated NGLs supplied less the quantity received from other fractionators, calculated in accordance with § 98.403(c)(2). If the calculated value is negative, the reporter shall report the value as zero.

(8) The specific industry standard used to measure each quantity reported in paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(9) If the NGL fractionator developed reporter-specific EFs or HHVs, report the following for each product type:

(i) The specific industry standard(s) used to develop reporter-specific higher heating value(s) and/or emission factor(s), pursuant to § 98.404(b)(2) and (c)(3).

(ii) The developed HHV(s).

(iii) The developed EF(s).

(b) In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), the annual report for each LDC shall contain the following information.

(1) Annual volume in Mscf of natural gas received by the LDC at its city gate stations for redelivery on the LDC's distribution system, including for use by the LDC (Fuelin Equations NN-1 and NN-2 of this subpart).

(2) Annual volume in Mscf of natural gas placed into storage or liquefied and stored (Fuelin Equation NN-5a).

(3) Annual volume in Mscf of natural gas withdrawn from on-system storage and annual volume in Mscf of vaporized liquefied natural gas (LNG) withdrawn from storage for delivery on the distribution system (Fuelin Equation NN-5a).

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Annual volume in Mscf of natural gas that bypassed the city gate(s) and was supplied through the LDC distribution system. This includes natural gas from producers and natural gas processing plants from local production, or natural gas that was vaporized upon receipt and delivered, and any other source that bypassed the city gate (Fuelin Equation NN-5b).

(6) Annual volume in Mscf of natural gas delivered to downstream gas transmission pipelines and other local distribution companies (Fuel in Equation NN-3 of this subpart).

(7) Annual volume in Mscf of natural gas delivered by the LDC to each large end-user as defined in § 98.403(b)(2)(i) of this section.

(8) The total annual COmass emissions (metric tons) associated with the volumes in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(7) of this section, calculated in accordance with § 98.403(a) and (b)(1) through (b)(3).

(9) Annual COemissions (metric tons) that would result from the complete combustion or oxidation of the annual supply of natural gas to end-users registering less than 460,000 Mscf, calculated in accordance with § 98.403(b)(4). If the calculated value is negative, the reporter shall report the value as zero.

(10) The specific industry standard used to develop the volume reported in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(11) If the LDC developed reporter-specific EFs or HHVs, report the following:

(i) The specific industry standard(s) used to develop reporter-specific higher heating value(s) and/or emission factor(s), pursuant to § 98.404 (b)(2) and (c)(3).

(ii) The developed HHV(s).

(iii) The developed EF(s).

(12) For each large end-user reported in paragraph (b)(7) of this section, report:

(i) The customer name, address, and meter number(s).

(ii) Whether the quantity of natural gas reported in paragraph (b)(7) of this section is the total quantity delivered to a large end-user's facility, or the quantity delivered to a specific meter located at the facility.

(iii) If known, report the EIA identification number of each LDC customer.

(13) The annual volume in Mscf of natural gas delivered by the LDC (including natural gas that is not owned by the LDC) to each of the following end-use categories. For definitions of these categories, refer to EIA Form 176 (Annual Report of Natural Gas and Supplemental Gas Supply & Disposition) and Instructions.

(i) Residential consumers.

(ii) Commercial consumers.

(iii) Industrial consumers.

(iv) Electricity generating facilities.

(14) The name of the U.S. state or territory covered in this report submission.

(c) Each reporter shall report the number of days in the reporting year for which substitute data procedures were used for the following purpose:

(1) To measure quantity.

(2) To develop HHV(s).

(3) To develop EF(s).
