
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart OO - Suppliers of Industrial Greenhouse Gases
###### § 98.410 Definition of the source category.

(a) The industrial gas supplier source category consists of any facility that produces fluorinated GHGs or nitrous oxide; any bulk importer of fluorinated GHGs or nitrous oxide; and any bulk exporter of fluorinated GHGs or nitrous oxide. Starting with reporting year 2018, this source category also consists of any facility that produces fluorinated HTFs; any bulk importer of fluorinated HTFs; any bulk exporter of fluorinated HTFs; and any facility that destroys fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs.

(b) To produce a fluorinated GHG means to manufacture a fluorinated GHG from any raw material or feedstock chemical. Producing a fluorinated GHG includes the manufacture of a fluorinated GHG as an isolated intermediate for use in a process that will result in its transformation either at or outside of the production facility. Producing a fluorinated GHG also includes the creation of a fluorinated GHG (with the exception of HFC-23) that is captured and shipped off site for any reason, including destruction. Producing a fluorinated GHG does not include the reuse or recycling of a fluorinated GHG, the creation of HFC-23 during the production of HCFC-22, the creation of intermediates that are created and transformed in a single process with no storage of the intermediates, or the creation of fluorinated GHGs that are released or destroyed at the production facility before the production measurement at § 98.414(a).

(c) To produce nitrous oxide means to produce nitrous oxide by thermally decomposing ammonium nitrate (NHNO). Producing nitrous oxide does not include the reuse or recycling of nitrous oxide or the creation of by-products that are released or destroyed at the production facility.

(d) To produce a fluorinated HTF means to manufacture, from any raw material or feedstock chemical, a fluorinated GHG used for temperature control, device testing, cleaning substrate surfaces and other parts, and soldering in processes including but not limited to certain types of electronics manufacturing production processes. Fluorinated heat transfer fluids do not include fluorinated GHGs used as lubricants or surfactants. For fluorinated heat transfer fluids under this subpart, the lower vapor pressure limit of 1 mm Hg in absolute at 25 &#xB0;C in the definition of fluorinated greenhouse gas in § 98.6 shall not apply. Fluorinated heat transfer fluids include, but are not limited to, perfluoropolyethers, perfluoroalkanes, perfluoroethers, tertiary perfluoroamines, and perfluorocyclic ethers. Producing a fluorinated HTF does not include the reuse or recycling of a fluorinated HTF, the creation of intermediates, or the creation of fluorinated HTFs that are released or destroyed at the production facility before the production measurement at § 98.414(a).

(e) For purposes of this subpart, to destroy fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs means to cause the expiration of a previously produced (as defined in paragraphs (b) and (d) of this section) fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF to the destruction efficiency actually achieved. Such destruction does not result in a commercially useful end product. For purposes of this subpart, such destruction does not include HFC-23 destruction as defined at § 98.150 or the dissociation of fluorinated GHGs that occurs during electronics manufacturing as defined at § 98.90. For example, such destruction does not include the dissociation of fluorinated GHGs that occurs during etch or chamber cleaning processes or during use of abatement systems that treat the fluorinated GHGs vented from such processes at electronics manufacturing facilities.
