
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart OO - Suppliers of Industrial Greenhouse Gases
###### ยง 98.414 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.

(a) The mass of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide coming out of the production process shall be measured using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of one percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than one fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF, the concentrations of each of the fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs, other than low-concentration constituents, shall be measured as set forth in paragraph (n) of this section. For each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF, the mean of the concentrations of that fluorinated GHG (mass fraction) measured under paragraph (n) shall be multiplied by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of that fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF coming out of the production process.

(b) The mass of any used fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or used nitrous oxide added back into the production process upstream of the output measurement in paragraph (a) of this section shall be measured using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of one percent of full scale or better. If the mass in paragraph (a) is measured by weighing containers that include returned heels as well as newly produced fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs, the returned heels shall be considered used fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs for purposes of this paragraph (b) and ยง 98.413(b).

(c) The mass of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide fed into the transformation process shall be measured using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of one percent of full scale or better.

(d) The fraction of the fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide fed into the transformation process that is actually transformed shall be estimated considering yield calculations or quantities of unreacted fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide permanently removed from the process and recovered, destroyed, or emitted.

(e) The mass of fluorinated GHGs, fluorinated HTFs, or nitrous oxide sent to another facility for transformation shall be measured using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of one percent of full scale or better.

(f) The mass of fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs sent to another facility for destruction shall be measured using flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of one percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than trace concentrations of materials other than the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF, the concentration of the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF shall be estimated considering current or previous representative concentration measurements and other relevant process information. This concentration (mass fraction) shall be multiplied by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF sent to another facility for destruction.

(g) You must estimate the share of the mass of fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs in paragraph (f) of this section that is comprised of fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs that are not included in the mass produced in ยง 98.413(a) because they are removed from the production process as by-products or other wastes.

(h) You must measure the mass of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is fed into the destruction device and that was previously produced as defined at ยง 98.410(b). Such fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed. You must use flowmeters, weigh scales, or a combination of volumetric and density measurements with an accuracy and precision of one percent of full scale or better. If the measured mass includes more than trace concentrations of materials other than the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF being destroyed, you must estimate the concentrations of the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF being destroyed considering current or previous representative concentration measurements and other relevant process information. You must multiply this concentration (mass fraction) by the mass measurement to obtain the mass of the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF fed into the destruction device.

(i) Very small quantities of fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs that are difficult to measure because they are entrained in other media such as destroyed filters and destroyed sample containers are exempt from paragraphs (f) and (h) of this section.

(j) [Reserved]

(k) For purposes of Equation OO-4 of this subpart, the destruction efficiency can be equated to the destruction efficiency determined during a previous performance test of the destruction device or, if no performance test has been done, the destruction efficiency provided by the manufacturer of the destruction device.

(l) In their estimates of the mass of fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs destroyed, facilities that destroy fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs shall account for any temporary reductions in the destruction efficiency that result from any startups, shutdowns, or malfunctions of the destruction device, including departures from the operating conditions defined in state or local permitting requirements and/or oxidizer manufacturer specifications.

(m) Calibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures that are used to measure or calculate quantities that are to be reported under this subpart prior to the first year for which GHG emissions are reported under this part. Calibrations performed prior to the effective date of this rule satisfy this requirement. Recalibrate all flow meters, weigh scales, and combinations of volumetric and density measures at the minimum frequency specified by the manufacturer. Use NIST-traceable standards and suitable methods published by a consensus standards organization (e.g., ASTM, ASME, ISO, or others).

(n) If the mass coming out of the production process includes more than one fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF, you shall measure the concentrations of all of the fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs, other than low-concentration constituents, as follows:
