
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart OO - Suppliers of Industrial Greenhouse Gases
###### ยง 98.414 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Number of samples.

(5)Analyze a minimum of three samples of the fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTF product that have been drawn under conditions that are representative of the process producing the fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTF product. If the relative standard deviation of the measured concentrations of any of the fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTF constituents (other than low-concentration constituents) is greater than or equal to 15 percent, draw and analyze enough additional samples to achieve a total of at least six samples of the fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF product.

(o) All analytical equipment used to determine the concentration of fluorinated GHGs or fluorinated HTFs, including but not limited to gas chromatographs and associated detectors, IR, FTIR and NMR devices, shall be calibrated at a frequency needed to support the type of analysis specified in the site GHG Monitoring Plan as required under paragraph (n) of this section and ยง 98.3(g)(5). Quality assurance samples at the concentrations of concern shall be used for the calibration. Such quality assurance samples shall consist of or be prepared from certified standards of the analytes of concern where available; if not available, calibration shall be performed by a method specified in the GHG Monitoring Plan.

(p) Isolated intermediates that are produced and transformed at the same facility are exempt from the monitoring requirements of this section.

(q) Low-concentration constituents are exempt from the monitoring and QA/QC requirements of this section.
