
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart OO - Suppliers of Industrial Greenhouse Gases
###### § 98.416 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information:

(a) Each fluorinated GHG, fluorinated HTF, or nitrous oxide production facility shall report the following information:

(1) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF produced at that facility by process, except for amounts that are captured solely to be shipped off site for destruction.

(2) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF transformed at that facility, by process.

(3) Mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is destroyed at that facility and that was previously produced as defined at § 98.410(b). Quantities to be reported under paragraph (a)(3) of this section include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Total mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF sent to another facility for transformation.

(6) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF sent to another facility for destruction, except fluorinated GHGs and fluorinated HTFs that are not included in the mass produced in § 98.413(a) because they are removed from the production process as byproducts or other wastes. Quantities to be reported under paragraph (a)(6) of this section could include, for example, fluorinated GHGs that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore sent to another facility for destruction.

(7) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is sent to another facility for destruction and that is not included in the mass produced in § 98.413(a) because it is removed from the production process as a byproduct or other waste.

(8)-(9) [Reserved]

(10) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF fed into the transformation process, by process.

(11) Mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is fed into the destruction device and that was previously produced as defined at § 98.410(b). Quantities to be reported under paragraph (a)(11) of this section include but are not limited to quantities that are shipped to the facility by another facility for destruction and quantities that are returned to the facility for reclamation but are found to be irretrievably contaminated and are therefore destroyed.

(12) Mass in metric tons of nitrous oxide and each fluorinated GHG or fluorinated HTF that is measured coming out of the production process, by process.
