
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart PP - Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.425 Procedures for estimating missing data.

(a) Whenever the quality assurance procedures in ยง 98.424(a)(1) of this subpart cannot be followed to measure quarterly mass flow or volumetric flow of CO, the most appropriate of the following missing data procedures shall be followed:

(1) A quarterly COmass flow or volumetric flow value that is missing may be substituted with a quarterly value measured during another quarter of the current reporting year.

(2) A quarterly COmass flow or volumetric flow value that is missing may be substituted with a quarterly value measured during the same quarter from the past reporting year.

(3) If a mass or volumetric flow meter is installed to measure the COstream, you may substitute data from a mass or volumetric flow meter measuring the COstream transferred for any period during which the installed meter is inoperable.

(4) The mass or volumetric flow used for purposes of product tracking and billing according to the reporter's established procedures may be substituted for any period during which measurement equipment is inoperable.

(b) Whenever the quality assurance procedures in ยง 98.424(b) cannot be followed to determine concentration of the COstream, the most appropriate of the following missing data procedures shall be followed:

(1) A quarterly concentration value that is missing may be substituted with a quarterly value measured during another quarter of the current reporting year.

(2) A quarterly concentration value that is missing may be substituted with a quarterly value measured during the same quarter from the previous reporting year.

(3) The concentration used for purposes of product tracking and billing according to the reporter's established procedures may be substituted for any quarterly value.

(c) Missing data on density of the COstream shall be substituted with quarterly or annual average values from the previous calendar year.

(d) Whenever the quality assurance procedures in ยง 98.424(a)(2) of this subpart cannot be followed to measure quarterly quantity of COin containers, the most appropriate of the following missing data procedures shall be followed:

(1) A quarterly quantity of COin containers that is missing may be substituted with a quarterly value measured during another representative quarter of the current reporting year.

(2) A quarterly quantity of COin containers that is missing may be substituted with a quarterly value measured during the same quarter from the past reporting year.

(3) The quarterly quantity of COin containers recorded for purposes of product tracking and billing according to the reporter's established procedures may be substituted for any period during which measurement equipment is inoperable.
