
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart PP - Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide
###### § 98.424 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### Determination of quantity.

(a)(1) Reporters following the procedures in § 98.423(a) shall determine quantity using a flow meter or meters located in accordance with this paragraph.

(i) If the COstream is segregated such that only a portion is captured for commercial application or for injection, you must locate the flow meter according to the following:

(A) For reporters following the procedures in § 98.423(a)(3)(i), you must locate the flow meter(s) after the point of segregation.

(B) For reporters following the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of § 98.423, you must locate the main flow meter(s) on the captured COstream(s) prior to the point of segregation and the subsequent flow meter(s) on the COstream(s) for on-site use after the point of segregation. You may only follow the procedures in paragraph (a)(3)(ii) of § 98.423 if the COstream(s) for on-site use is/are the only diversion(s) from the main, captured COstream(s) after the main flow meter location(s).

(ii) Reporters that have a mass flow meter or volumetric flow meter installed to measure the flow of a COstream that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section shall base calculations in § 98.423 of this subpart on the installed mass flow or volumetric flow meters.

(iii) Reporters that do not have a mass flow meter or volumetric flow meter installed to measure the flow of the COstream that meets the requirements of paragraph (a)(1)(i) of this section shall base calculations in § 98.423 of this subpart on the flow of gas transferred off site using a mass flow meter or a volumetric flow meter located at the point of off-site transfer.

(2) Reporters following the procedures in paragraph (b) of § 98.423 shall determine quantity in accordance with this paragraph.

(i) Reporters that supply COin containers using weigh bills, scales, or load cells shall measure the mass of contents of each COcontainer to which the COstream is delivered, sum the mass of contents supplied in all containers to which the COstream is delivered during each quarter, sample the COstream delivering COto containers on a quarterly basis to determine the composition of the COstream, and apply Equation PP-1.

(ii) Reporters that supply COin containers using loaded container volumes shall measure the volume of contents of each COcontainer to which the COstream is delivered, sum the volume of contents supplied in all containers to which the COstream is delivered during each quarter, sample the COstream on a quarterly basis to determine the composition of the COstream, determine the density quarterly, and apply Equation PP-2.

(3) Importers or exporters that import or export COin containers shall measure the mass in each COcontainer using weigh bills, scales, or load cells and sum the mass in all containers imported or exported during the reporting year.

(4) All flow meters, scales, and load cells used to measure quantities that are reported in § 98.423 of this subpart shall be operated and calibrated according to the following procedure:

(i) You shall use an appropriate standard method published by a consensus-based standards organization if such a method exists. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International, the American National Standards Institute (ANSI), the American Gas Association (AGA), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), the American Petroleum Institute (API), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB).

(ii) Where no appropriate standard method developed by a consensus-based standards organization exists, you shall follow industry standard practices.

(iii) You must ensure that any flow meter calibrations performed are NIST traceable.

(5) Reporters using Equation PP-2 of this subpart and measuring COconcentration as weight % COshall determine the density of the COstream on a quarterly basis in order to calculate the mass of the COstream according to one of the following procedures:
