
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart PP - Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.422 GHGs to report.
############# ยง 98.423 Calculating COsupply.

(a) Except as allowed in paragraph (b) of this section, calculate the annual mass of COcaptured, extracted, imported, or exported through each flow meter in accordance with the procedures specified in either paragraph (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section. If multiple flow meters are used, you shall calculate the annual mass of COfor all flow meters according to the procedures specified in paragraph (a)(3) of this section.

(1) For each mass flow meter, you shall calculate quarterly the mass of COin a COstream in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the composition data, according to Equation PP-1 of this section. Mass flow and composition data measurements shall be made in accordance with ยง 98.424 of this subpart.

(2) For each volumetric flow meter, you shall calculate quarterly the mass of COin a COstream in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow by the concentration and density data, according to Equation PP-2 of this section. Volumetric flow, concentration and density data measurements shall be made in accordance with ยง 98.424 of this section.

(3) To aggregate data, use either Equation PP-3a or PP-3b in this paragraph, as appropriate.

(i) For facilities with production process units or production wells that capture or extract a COstream and either measure it after segregation or do not segregate the flow, calculate the total COsupplied in accordance with Equation PP-3a in paragraph (a)(3).

(ii) For facilities with production process units that capture a COstream and measure it ahead of segregation, calculate the total COsupplied in accordance with Equation PP-3b.

(b) As an alternative to paragraphs (a)(1) through (3) of this section for COthat is supplied in containers, calculate the annual mass of COsupplied in containers delivered by each COstream in accordance with the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section. If multiple COstreams are used to deliver COto containers, you shall calculate the annual mass of COsupplied in containers delivered by all COstreams according to the procedures specified in paragraph (b)(3) of this section.

(1) For each COstream that delivers COto containers, for which mass is measured, you shall calculate COsupply in containers using Equation PP-1 of this section.

(2) For each COstream that delivers to containers, for which volume is measured, you shall calculate COsupply in containers using Equation PP-2 of this section.

(3) To aggregate data, sum the mass of COsupplied in containers delivered by all COstreams in accordance with Equation PP-3a of this section.

(c) Importers or exporters that import or export COin containers shall calculate the total mass of COimported or exported in metric tons based on summing the mass in each COcontainer using weigh bills, scales, or load cells according to Equation PP-4 of this section.
