
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart PP - Suppliers of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.426 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c) of subpart A of this part, the annual report shall contain the following information, as applicable:

(a) If you use Equation PP-1 of this subpart, report the following information for each mass flow meter or COstream that delivers COto containers:

(1) Annual mass in metric tons of CO.

(2) Quarterly mass in metric tons of CO.

(3) Quarterly concentration of the COstream.

(4) The standard used to measure COconcentration.

(5) The location of the flow meter in your process chain in relation to the points of COstream capture, dehydration, compression, and other processing.

(b) If you use Equation PP-2 of this subpart, report the following information for each volumetric flow meter or COstream that delivers COto containers:

(1) Annual mass in metric tons of CO.

(2) Quarterly volume in standard cubic meters of CO.

(3) Quarterly concentration of the COstream in volume or weight percent.

(4) Report density as follows:

(i) Quarterly density of the COstream in metric tons per standard cubic meter if you report the concentration of the COstream in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in weight percent.

(ii) Quarterly density of COin metric tons per standard cubic meter if you report the concentration of the COstream in paragraph (b)(3) of this section in volume percent.

(5) The method used to measure density.

(6) The standard used to measure COconcentration.

(7) The location of the flow meter in your process chain in relation to the points of COstream capture, dehydration, compression, and other processing.

(c) For the aggregated annual mass of COemissions calculated using Equation PP-3a or PP-3b, report the following:

(1) If you use Equation PP-3a of this subpart, report the annual COmass in metric tons from all flow meters and COstreams that deliver COto containers.

(2) If you use Equation PP-3b of this subpart, report:

(i) The total annual COmass through main flow meter(s) in metric tons.

(ii) The total annual COmass through subsequent flow meter(s) in metric tons.

(iii) The total annual COmass supplied in metric tons.

(iv) The location of each flow meter in relation to the point of segregation.

(d) If you use Equation PP-4 of this subpart, report at the corporate level the annual mass of COin metric tons in all COcontainers that are imported or exported.

(e) Each reporter shall report the following information:

(1) The type of equipment used to measure the total flow of the COstream or the total mass or volume in COcontainers.

(2) The standard used to operate and calibrate the equipment reported in (e)(1) of this section.

(3) The number of days in the reporting year for which substitute data procedures were used for the following purpose:

(i) To measure quantity.

(ii) To measure concentration.

(iii) To measure density.

(f) Report the aggregated annual quantity of COin metric tons that is transferred to each of the following end use applications, if known:

(1) Food and beverage.

(2) Industrial and municipal water/wastewater treatment.

(3) Metal fabrication, including welding and cutting.

(4) Greenhouse uses for plant growth.

(5) Fumigants (e.g., grain storage) and herbicides.

(6) Pulp and paper.

(7) Cleaning and solvent use.

(8) Fire fighting.

(9) Transportation and storage of explosives.

(10) Injection of carbon dioxide for enhanced oil and natural gas recovery that is covered by subpart UU of this part.

(11) Geologic sequestration of carbon dioxide that is covered by subpart RR of this part.

(12) Research and development.

(13) Other.

(g) Each production process unit that captures a COstream for purposes of supplying COfor commercial applications or in order to sequester or otherwise inject it underground when custody of the COis maintained shall report the percentage of that stream, if any, that is biomass-based during the reporting year.

(h) If you capture a COstream from an electricity generating unit that is subject to subpart D of this part and transfer COto any facilities that are subject to subpart RR of this part, you must:

(1) Report the facility identification number associated with the annual GHG report for the subpart D facility;

(2) Report each facility identification number associated with the annual GHG reports for each subpart RR facility to which COis transferred; and

(3) Report the annual quantity of COin metric tons that is transferred to each subpart RR facility.
