
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart QQ - Importers and Exporters of Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases Contained in Pre-Charged Equipment or Closed-Cell Foams
###### ยง 98.436 Data reporting requirements.

(a) Each importer of fluorinated GHGs contained in pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams must submit an annual report that summarizes its imports at the corporate level, except for transshipments, as specified:

(1) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG imported in pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams.

(2) For each type of pre-charged equipment with a unique combination of charge size and charge type, the identity of the fluorinated GHG used as a refrigerant or electrical insulator, charge size (holding charge, if applicable), and number imported.

(3) For closed-cell foams that are imported inside of equipment, the identity of the fluorinated GHG contained in the foam, the mass of the fluorinated GHG contained in the foam in each piece of equipment, and the number of pieces of equipment imported with each unique combination of mass and identity of fluorinated GHG within the closed-cell foams.

(4) For closed cell-foams that are not imported inside of equipment, the identity of the fluorinated GHG in the foam, the density of the fluorinated GHG in the foam (kg fluorinated GHG/cubic foot), and the volume of foam imported (cubic feet) for each type of closed-cell foam with a unique combination of fluorinated GHG density and identity.

(5) Dates on which the pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams were imported.

(6) If the importer does not know the identity and mass of the fluorinated GHGs within the closed-cell foam, the importer must report the following:

(i) Total mass in metric tons of COe of the fluorinated GHGs imported in closed-cell foams.

(ii) For closed-cell foams that are imported inside of equipment, the mass of the fluorinated GHGs in COe contained in the foam in each piece of equipment and the number of pieces of equipment imported for each equipment type.

(iii) For closed-cell foams that are not imported inside of equipment, the density in COe of the fluorinated GHGs in the foam (kg COe/cubic foot) and the volume of foam imported (cubic feet) for each type of closed-cell foam.

(iv) Dates on which the closed-cell foams were imported.

(v) Name of the foam manufacturer for each type of closed-cell foam where the identity and mass of the fluorinated GHGs is unknown.

(vi) Certification that the importer was unable to obtain information on the identity and mass of the fluorinated GHGs within the closed-cell foam from the closed-cell foam manufacturer or manufacturers.

(b) Each exporter of fluorinated GHGs contained in pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams must submit an annual report that summarizes its exports at the corporate level, except for transshipments, as specified:

(1) Total mass in metric tons of each fluorinated GHG exported in pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams.

(2) For each type of pre-charged equipment with a unique combination of charge size and charge type, the identity of the fluorinated GHG used as a refrigerant or electrical insulator, charge size (including holding charge, if applicable), and number exported.

(3) For closed-cell foams that are exported inside of equipment, the identity of the fluorinated GHG contained in the foam in each piece of equipment, the mass of the fluorinated GHG contained in the foam in each piece of equipment, and the number of pieces of equipment exported with each unique combination of mass and identity of fluorinated GHG within the closed-cell foams.

(4) For closed-cell foams that are not exported inside of equipment, the identity of the fluorinated GHG in the foam, the density of the fluorinated GHG in the foam (kg fluorinated GHG/cubic foot), and the volume of foam exported (cubic feet) for each type of closed-cell foam with a unique combination of fluorinated GHG density and identity.

(5) Dates on which the pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams were exported.

(6) If the exporter does not know the identity and mass of the fluorinated GHG within the closed-cell foam, the exporter must report the following:

(i) Total mass in metric tons of COe of the fluorinated GHGs exported in closed-cell foams.

(ii) For closed-cell foams that are exported inside of equipment, the mass of the fluorinated GHGs in COe contained in the foam in each piece of equipment and the number of pieces of equipment imported for each equipment type.

(iii) For closed-cell foams that are not exported inside of equipment, the density in COe of the fluorinated GHGs in the foam (kg COe/cubic foot) and the volume of foam imported (cubic feet) for each type of closed-cell foam.

(iv) Dates on which the closed-cell foams were exported.

(v) Name of the foam manufacturer for each type of closed-cell foam where the identity and mass of the fluorinated GHGg is unknown.

(vi) Certification that the exporter was unable to obtain information on the identity and mass of the fluorinated GHGs within the closed-cell foam from the closed-cell foam manufacturer or manufacturers.
