
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart QQ - Importers and Exporters of Fluorinated Greenhouse Gases Contained in Pre-Charged Equipment or Closed-Cell Foams
###### ยง 98.437 Records that must be retained.

(a) In addition to the data required by ยง 98.3(g), importers of fluorinated GHGs in pre-charged equipment and closed-cell foams must retain the following records substantiating each of the imports that they report:

(1) A copy of the bill of lading for the import.

(2) The invoice for the import.

(3) The U.S. Customs entry form.

(4) Ports of entry through which the pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams passed.

(5) Countries from which the pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams were imported.

(6) For importers that report the mass of fluorinated GHGs within closed-cell foams on a COe basis, correspondence or other documents that show the importer was unable to obtain information on the identity and mass of fluorinated GHG within closed-cell foams from the foam manufacturer.

(b) In addition to the data required by ยง 98.3(g), exporters of fluorinated GHGs in pre-charged equipment and closed-cell foams must retain the following records substantiating each of the exports that they report:

(1) A copy of the bill of lading for the export and

(2) The invoice for the export.

(3) Ports of exit through which the pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams passed.

(4) Countries to which the pre-charged equipment or closed-cell foams were exported.

(5) For exporters that report the mass of fluorinated GHGs within closed-cell foams on a COe basis, correspondence or other documents that show the exporter was unable to obtain information on the identity and mass of fluorinated GHG within closed-cell foams from the foam manufacturer.

(c) For importers and exports of fluorinated GHGs inside pre-charged equipment and closed-cell foams, the GHG Monitoring Plans, as described in ยง 98.3(g)(5), must be completed by April 1, 2011.

(d) Persons who transship pre-charged equipment and closed-cell foams containing fluorinated GHGs must maintain records that indicated that the pre-charged equipment or foam originated in a foreign country and was destined for another foreign country and did not enter into commerce in the United States.
