
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.444 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### CO,received.

(a)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you must determine the quarterly flow rate of COreceived by pipeline by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:

(i) You may measure flow rate at the receiving custody transfer meter prior to any subsequent processing operations at the facility and collect the flow rate quarterly.

(ii) If you took ownership of the COin a commercial transaction, you may use the quarterly flow rate data from the sales contract if it is a one-time transaction or from invoices or manifests if it is an ongoing commercial transaction with discrete shipments.

(iii) If you inject COreceived from a production process unit that is part of your facility, you may use the quarterly COflow rate that was measured at the equivalent of a custody transfer meter following procedures provided in subpart PP of this part. To be the equivalent of a custody transfer meter, a meter must measure the flow of CObeing transported to an injection well to the same degree of accuracy as a meter used for commercial transactions.

(2) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you must determine the quarterly mass or volume of contents in all containers if you receive COin containers by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:

(i) You may measure the mass of contents of containers summed quarterly using weigh bills, scales, or load cells.

(ii) You may determine the volume of the contents of containers summed quarterly.

(iii) If you took ownership of the COin a commercial transaction, you may use the quarterly mass or volume of contents from the sales contract if it is a one-time transaction or from invoices or manifests if it is an ongoing commercial transaction with discrete shipments.

(3) Except as provided in paragraph (a)(4) of this section, you must determine a quarterly concentration of the COreceived that is representative of all COreceived in that quarter by following the most appropriate of the following procedures:

(i) You may sample the COstream at least once per quarter at the point of receipt and measure its COconcentration.

(ii) If you took ownership of the COin a commercial transaction for which the sales contract was contingent on COconcentration, and if the supplier of the COsampled the COstream in a quarter and measured its concentration per the sales contract terms, you may use the COconcentration data from the sales contract for that quarter.

(iii) If you inject COfrom a production process unit that is part of your facility, you may report the quarterly COconcentration of the COstream supplied that was measured following the procedures provided in subpart PP of this part.

(4) If the COyou receive is wholly injected and is not mixed with any other supply of CO, you may report the annual mass of COinjected that you determined following the requirements under paragraph (b) of this section as the total annual mass of COreceived instead of using Equation RR-1 or RR-2 of this subpart to calculate COreceived.

(5) You must assume that the COyou receive meets the definition of a COstream unless you can trace it through written records to a source other than a COstream.
