
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### § 98.442 GHGs to report.
############# § 98.443 Calculating COgeologic sequestration.

You must calculate the mass of COreceived using COreceived equations (Equations RR-1 to RR-3 of this section), unless you follow the procedures in § 98.444(a)(4). You must calculate COsequestered using injection equations (Equations RR-4 to RR-6 of this section), production/recycling equations (Equations RR-7 to RR-9 of this section), surface leakage equations (Equation RR-10 of this section), and sequestration equations (Equations RR-11 and RR-12 of this section). For your first year of reporting, you must calculate COsequestered starting from the date set forth in your approved MRV plan.

(a) You must calculate and report the annual mass of COreceived by pipeline using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and the procedures in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if applicable.

(1) For a mass flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of COin a COstream received in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the COconcentration in the flow, according to Equation RR-1 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.

(2) For a volumetric flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of COin a COstream received in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow at standard conditions by the COconcentration in the flow and the density of COat standard conditions, according to Equation RR-2 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.

(3) If you receive COthrough more than one flow meter, you must sum the mass of all COreceived in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-3 of this section.

(b) You must calculate and report the annual mass of COreceived in containers using the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) If you are measuring the mass of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.444(a)(2)(i), you must calculate the COreceived for injection in containers using Equation RR-1 of this section.

(2) If you are measuring the volume of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.444(a)(2)(ii), you must calculate the COreceived for injection in containers using Equation RR-2 of this section.

(c) You must report the annual mass of COinjected in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(3) of this section.

(1) If you use a mass flow meter to measure the flow of an injected COstream, you must calculate annually the total mass of CO(in metric tons) in the COstream injected each year in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the COconcentration in the flow, according to Equation RR-4 of this section. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.

(2) If you use a volumetric flow meter to measure the flow of an injected COstream, you must calculate annually the total mass of CO(in metric tons) in the COstream injected each year in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow at standard conditions by the COconcentration in the flow and the density of COat standard conditions, according to Equation RR-5 of this section. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.

(3) To aggregate injection data for all wells covered under this subpart, you must sum the mass of all COinjected through all injection wells in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-6 of this section.

(d) You must calculate the annual mass of COproduced from oil or gas production wells or from other fluid wells for each separator that sends a stream of gas into a recycle or end use system in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(3) of this section. You must account for any COthat is produced and not processed through a separator. You must account only for wells that produce the COthat was injected into the well or wells covered by this source category.

(1) For each gas-liquid separator for which flow is measured using a mass flow meter, you must calculate annually the total mass of COproduced from an oil or other fluid stream in metric tons that is separated from the fluid by multiplying the mass gas flow by the COconcentration in the gas flow, according to Equation RR-7 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.

(2) For each gas-liquid separator for which flow is measured using a volumetric flow meter, you must calculate annually the total mass of COproduced from an oil or other fluid stream in metric tons that is separated from the fluid by multiplying the volumetric gas flow at standard conditions by the COconcentration in the gas flow and the density of COat standard conditions, according to Equation RR-8 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.444.

(3) To aggregate production data, you must sum the mass of all of the COseparated at each gas-liquid separator in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-9 of this section. You must assume that the total COmeasured at the separator(s) represents a percentage of the total COproduced. In order to account for the percentage of COproduced that is estimated to remain with the produced oil or other fluid, you must multiply the quarterly mass of COmeasured at the separator(s) by a percentage estimated using a methodology in your approved MRV plan. If fluids containing COfrom injection wells covered under this source category are produced and not processed through a gas-liquid separator, the concentration of COin the produced fluids must be measured at a flow meter located prior to reinjection or reuse using methods in § 98.444(f)(1). The considerations you intend to use to calculate COfrom produced fluids for the mass balance equation must be described in your approved MRV plan in accordance with § 98.448(a)(5).

(e) You must report the annual mass of COthat is emitted by surface leakage in accordance with your approved MRV plan. You must calculate the total annual mass of COemitted from all leakage pathways in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-10 of this section.

(f) You must report the annual mass of COthat is sequestered in subsurface geologic formations in the reporting year in accordance with the procedures specified in paragraphs (f)(1) and (f)(2) of this section.

(1) If you are actively producing oil or natural gas or if you are producing any other fluids, you must calculate the annual mass of COthat is sequestered in the underground subsurface formation in the reporting year in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation RR-11 of this section.

(2) If you are not actively producing oil or natural gas or any other fluids, you must calculate the annual mass of COthat is sequestered in subsurface geologic formations in the reporting year in accordance with the procedures specified in Equation RR-12 of this section.
