
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### § 98.445 Procedures for estimating missing data.

A complete record of all measured parameters used in the GHG quantities calculations is required. Whenever the monitoring procedures cannot be followed, you must use the following missing data procedures:

(a) A quarterly flow rate of COreceived that is missing must be estimated as follows:

(1) Another calculation methodology listed in § 98.444(a)(1) must be used if possible.

(2) If another method listed in § 98.444(a)(1) cannot be used, a quarterly flow rate value that is missing must be estimated using a representative flow rate value from the nearest previous time period.

(b) A quarterly mass or volume of contents in containers received that is missing must be estimated as follows:

(1) Another calculation methodology listed in § 98.444(a)(2) must be used if possible.

(2) If another method listed in § 98.444(a)(2) cannot be used, a quarterly mass or volume value that is missing must be estimated using a representative mass or volume value from the nearest previous time period.

(c) A quarterly COconcentration of a COstream received that is missing must be estimated as follows:

(1) Another calculation methodology listed in § 98.444(a)(3) must be used if possible.

(2) If another method listed in § 98.444(a)(3) cannot be used, a quarterly concentration value that is missing must be estimated using a representative concentration value from the nearest previous time period.

(d) A quarterly quantity of COinjected that is missing must be estimated using a representative quantity of COinjected from the nearest previous period of time at a similar injection pressure.

(e) For any values associated with COemissions from equipment leaks and vented emissions of COfrom surface equipment at the facility that are reported in this subpart, missing data estimation procedures should be followed in accordance with those specified in subpart W of this part.

(f) The quarterly quantity of COproduced from subsurface geologic formations that is missing must be estimated using a representative quantity of COproduced from the nearest previous period of time.

(g) You must estimate the mass of COemitted by surface leakage that is missing as required by your approved MRV plan.

(h) You must estimate other missing data as required by your approved MRV plan.
