
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.448 Geologic sequestration monitoring, reporting, and verification (MRV) plan.
####### Contents of MRV plan.

(a)You must develop and submit to the Administrator a proposed MRV plan for monitoring, reporting, and verification of geologic sequestration at your facility. Your proposed MRV plan must contain the following components:

(1) Delineation of the maximum monitoring area and the active monitoring areas. The first period for your active monitoring area will begin from the date determined in your MRV plan through the date at which the plan calls for the first expansion of the monitoring area. The length of each monitoring period can be any time interval chosen by you that is greater than 1 year.

(2) Identification of potential surface leakage pathways for COin the maximum monitoring area and the likelihood, magnitude, and timing, of surface leakage of COthrough these pathways.

(3) A strategy for detecting and quantifying any surface leakage of CO.

(4) A strategy for establishing the expected baselines for monitoring COsurface leakage.

(5) A summary of the considerations you intend to use to calculate site-specific variables for the mass balance equation. This includes, but is not limited to, considerations for calculating COemissions from equipment leaks and vented emissions of CObetween the injection flow meter and injection well and/or the production flow meter and production well, and considerations for calculating COin produced fluids.

(6) If a well is permitted under the Underground Injection Control program, for each injection well, report the well identification number used for the Underground Injection Control permit and the Underground Injection Control permit class. If the well is not yet permitted, and you have applied for an Underground Injection Control permit, report the well identification numbers in the permit application. If an offshore well is not subject to the Safe Drinking Water Act, for each injection well, report any well identification number and any identification number used for the legal instrument authorizing geologic sequestration. If you are submitting your Underground Injection Control permit application as part of your proposed MRV plan, you must notify EPA when the permit has been approved. If you are an offshore facility not subject to the Safe Drinking Water Act, and are submitting your application for the legal instrument authorizing geologic sequestration as part of your proposed MRV plan, you must notify EPA when the legal instrument authorizing geologic sequestration has been approved.

(7) Proposed date to begin collecting data for calculating total amount sequestered according to equation RR-11 or RR-12 of this subpart. This date must be after expected baselines as required by paragraph (a)(4) of this section are established and the leakage detection and quantification strategy as required by paragraph (a)(3) of this section is implemented in the initial AMA.
