
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.447 Records that must be retained.

(a) You must follow the record retention requirements specified by ยง 98.3(g). In addition to the records required by ยง 98.3(g), you must retain the records specified in paragraphs (a)(1) through (7) of this section, as applicable. You must retain all required records for at least 3 years.

(1) Quarterly records of COreceived, including mass flow rate of contents of containers (mass or volumetric) at standard conditions and operating conditions, operating temperature and pressure, and concentration of these streams.

(2) Quarterly records of produced CO, including mass flow or volumetric flow at standard conditions and operating conditions, operating temperature and pressure, and concentration of these streams.

(3) Quarterly records of injected COincluding mass flow or volumetric flow at standard conditions and operating conditions, operating temperature and pressure, and concentration of these streams.

(4) Annual records of information used to calculate the COemitted by surface leakage from leakage pathways.

(5) Annual records of information used to calculate the COemitted from equipment leaks and vented emissions of COfrom equipment located on the surface between the flow meter used to measure injection quantity and the injection wellhead.

(6) Annual records of information used to calculate the COemitted from equipment leaks and vented emissions of COfrom equipment located on the surface between the production wellhead and the flow meter used to measure production quantity.

(7) Any other records as specified for retention in your EPA-approved MRV plan.

(b) You must complete your monitoring plans, as described in ยง 98.3(g)(5), by April 1 of the year you begin collecting data.
