
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.448 Geologic sequestration monitoring, reporting, and verification (MRV) plan.
####### MRV plan revisions.

(d)You must revise and submit the MRV plan within 180 days to the Administrator for approval if any of the following in paragraphs (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section applies. You must include the reason(s) for the revisions in your submittal.

(1) A material change was made to monitoring and/or operational parameters that was not anticipated in the original MRV plan. Examples of material changes include but are not limited to: Large changes in the volume of COinjected; the construction of new injection wells not identified in the MRV plan; failures of the monitoring system including monitoring system sensitivity, performance, location, or baseline; changes to surface land use that affects baseline or operational conditions; observed plume location that differs significantly from the predicted plume area used for developing the MRV plan; a change in the maximum monitoring area or active monitoring area; or a change in monitoring technology that would result in coverage or detection capability different from the MRV plan.

(2) A change in the permit class of your Underground Injection Control permit.

(3) If you are notified by EPA of substantive errors in your MRV plan or monitoring report.

(4) You choose to revise your MRV plan for any other reason in any reporting year.
