
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart RR - Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide
###### ยง 98.448 Geologic sequestration monitoring, reporting, and verification (MRV) plan.
####### Timing.

(b)You must submit a proposed MRV plan to EPA according to the following schedule:

(1) You must submit a proposed MRV plan to EPA by June 30, 2011 if you were issued a final Underground Injection Control permit authorizing the injection of COinto the subsurface on or before December 31, 2010. You will be allowed to request one extension of up to an additional 180 days in which to submit your proposed MRV plan.

(2) You must submit a proposed MRV plan to EPA within 180 days of receiving a final Underground Injection Control permit authorizing the injection of COinto the subsurface. If your facility is an offshore facility not subject to the Safe Drinking Water Act, you must submit a proposed MRV plan to EPA within 180 days of receiving authorization to begin geologic sequestration of CO. You will be allowed to request one extension of the submittal date of up to an additional 180 days.

(3) If you are injecting a COstream in subsurface geologic formations to enhance the recovery of oil or natural gas and you are not permitted as Class VI under the Underground Injection Control program, you may opt to submit an MRV plan at any time.

(4) If EPA determines that your proposed MRV plan is incomplete, you must submit an updated MRV plan within 45 days of EPA notification, unless otherwise specified by EPA.
