
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart SS - Electrical Equipment Manufacture or Refurbishment
###### ยง 98.456 Data reporting requirements.

In addition to the information required by ยง 98.3(c), each annual report must contain the following information for each chemical at the facility level:

(a) Pounds of SFand PFCs stored in containers at the beginning of the year.

(b) Pounds of SFand PFCs stored in containers at the end of the year.

(c) Pounds of SFand PFCs purchased in bulk.

(d) Pounds of SFand PFCs returned by equipment users with or inside equipment.

(e) Pounds of SFand PFCs returned to site from off site after recycling.

(f) Pounds of SFand PFCs inside new equipment delivered to customers.

(g) Pounds of SFand PFCs delivered to equipment users in containers.

(h) Pounds of SFand PFCs returned to suppliers.

(i) Pounds of SFand PFCs sent off site for destruction.

(j) Pounds of SFand PFCs sent off site to be recycled.

(k) The nameplate capacity of the equipment, in pounds, delivered to customers with SFor PFCs inside, if different from the quantity in paragraph (f) of this section.

(l) A description of the engineering methods and calculations used to determine emissions from hoses or other flow lines that connect the container to the equipment that is being filled.

(m) The values for EFof Equation SS-5 of this subpart for each hose and valve combination and the associated valve fitting sizes and hose diameters.

(n) The total number of fill operations for each hose and valve combination, or, Fof Equation SS-5 of this subpart.

(o) If the mass of SFor the PFC disbursed to customers in new equipment over the period p is determined according to the methods required in ยง 98.453(h), report the mean value of nameplate capacity in pounds for each make, model, and group of conditions.

(p) If the mass of SFor the PFC disbursed to customers in new equipment over the period p is determined according to the methods required in ยง 98.453(h), report the number of samples and the upper and lower bounds on the 95 percent confidence interval for each make, model, and group of conditions.

(q) Pounds of SFand PFCs used to fill equipment at off-site electric power transmission or distribution locations, or M, of Equation SS-6 of this subpart.

(r) Pounds of SFand PFCs used to charge the equipment prior to leaving the electrical equipment manufacturer or refurbishment facility, or M, of Equation SS-6 of this subpart.

(s) The nameplate capacity of the equipment, in pounds, installed at off-site electric power transmission or distribution locations used to determine emissions from installation, or N, of Equation SS-6 of this subpart.

(t) For any missing data, you must report the reason the data were missing, the parameters for which the data were missing, the substitute parameters used to estimate emissions in their absence, and the quantity of emissions thereby estimated.
