
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart TT - Industrial Waste Landfills
###### § 98.463 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### Degradable organic content (DOC).,e.g.,

(3)For any year, X, in Equation TT-1 of this section, use either the applicable default DOC values provided in Table TT-1 of this subpart or determine values for DOCas specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section. When developing historical waste quantity data, you may use default DOC values from Table TT-1 of this subpart for certain years and determined values for DOCfor other years. The historical values for DOC or DOCmust be developed only for the first annual report required for the industrial waste landfill; and used for all subsequent annual reports (if DOC for year x = 1990 was determined to be 0.15 in the first reporting year, you must use 0.15 for the 1990 DOC value for all subsequent annual reports).

(i) For the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported, determine the DOCvalue of each waste stream disposed of in the landfill no less frequently than once per quarter using the methods specified in § 98.464(b). Calculate annual DOCfor each waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOCvalues for that waste stream that were measured during the year.

(ii) For subsequent years (after the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported), either use the DOCof each waste stream calculated for the most recent reporting year for which DOC values were determined according to paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section, or determine new DOC values for that year following the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section. You must determine new DOC values following the requirements in paragraph (a)(3)(i) of this section if changes in the process operations occurred during the previous reporting year that can reasonably be expected to alter the characteristics of the waste stream, such as the water content or volatile solids concentration. Should changes to the waste stream occur, you must revise the GHG Monitoring Plan as required in § 98.3(g)(5)(iii) and report the new DOCvalue according to the requirements of § 98.466.

(iii) If DOCmeasurement data for each waste stream are available according to the methods specified in § 98.464(b) for years prior to the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported, determine DOCfor each waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOCvalues for that waste stream that were measured in Year X. A single measurement value is acceptable for determining DOCfor years prior to the first reporting year.

(iv) For historical years for which DOCmeasurement data, determined according to the methods specified in § 98.464(b), are not available, determine the historical values for DOCusing the applicable methods specified in paragraphs (a)(3)(iv)(A) and (B) of this section. Determine these historical values for DOConly for the first annual report required for this industrial waste landfill; historical values for DOCcalculated for this first annual report should be used for all subsequent annual reports.
