
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart TT - Industrial Waste Landfills
###### ยง 98.464 Monitoring and QA/QC requirements.
####### http://www.astm.org,http://www.ansi.org,http://www.asme.org,http://www.api.org

(A) You may use the procedures published by a consensus-based standards organization to conduct a minimum of a 60-day anaerobic biodegradation test. Consensus-based standards organizations include, but are not limited to, the following: ASTM International (100 Barr Harbor Drive, P.O. Box CB700, West Conshohocken, Pennsylvania 19428-B2959, (800) 262-1373,), the American National Standards Institute (ANSI, 1819 L Street, NW., 6th floor, Washington, DC 20036, (202) 293-8020,), the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME, Three Park Avenue, New York, NY 10016-5990, (800) 843-2763,), and the North American Energy Standards Board (NAESB, 801 Travis Street, Suite 1675, Houston, TX 77002, (713) 356-0060,).

(B) Use a minimum of four samples: Two waste stream samples, a control sample using a known substrate (such as ethanol), and a digester sludge blank sample. Each waste stream sample must be appropriately ground to ensure the waste material is fully exposed to the anaerobic digester sludge.

(C) Determine the net mass of carbon degraded in the control sample as the difference in the results of the control sample and the digester sludge blank sample. Determine the net mass of carbon degraded in each waste stream sample as the difference in the results of each waste stream sample and the digester sludge blank sample.

(D) Determine the fraction of carbon degraded in the control sample as the net mass of carbon degraded in the control sample divided by the mass of carbon added via the substrate material in the control sample. If less than 50 percent of the theoretical mass of carbon in the control sample is degraded, the test run is invalid.

(E) Determine the DOC of each waste sample using Equation TT-7 of this section. If the DOC values for the two waste stream samples differ by more than 20 percent, the test run is invalid. The DOC of the waste stream is determined as the average DOC value of the two waste stream samples determined during a valid test.

(ii) Calculate the waste stream-specific DOCvalue using Equation TT-8 of this section.

(c) For each waste stream that was historically managed in the landfill for which you choose to determine volatile solids concentration and/or a waste stream-specific DOC, you must determine volatile solids concentration or DOCof the waste stream as initially placed in the landfill using the methods specified in paragraph (c)(1) or (2) of this section, as applicable.

(1) If you can identify a similar waste stream to the waste stream that was historically managed in the landfill, you must determine the volatile solids concentration or DOCof the similar waste stream using the applicable procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section.

(2) If you cannot identify a similar waste stream to the waste stream that was historically managed in the landfill, you may determine the volatile solids concentration or DOCof the historically managed waste stream using process knowledge. You must document the basis for the volatile solids concentration or DOCvalue as determined through process knowledge.

(d) For landfills with gas collection systems, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas composition monitor capable of measuring the concentration of CHaccording to the requirements specified at ยง 98.344(b).

(e) For landfills with gas collection systems, install, operate, maintain, and calibrate a gas flow meter capable of measuring the volumetric flow rate of the recovered landfill gas according to the requirements specified at ยง 98.344(c).

(f) For landfills with gas collection systems, all temperature, pressure, and if applicable, moisture content monitors must be calibrated using the procedures and frequencies specified by the manufacturer.

(g) For landfills electing to measure the fraction by volume of CHin landfill gas (F), follow the requirements in paragraphs (g)(1) and (g)(2) of this section.

(1) Use a gas composition monitor capable of measuring the concentration of CHon a dry basis that is properly operated, calibrated, and maintained according to the requirements specified at ยง 98.344(b). You must either use a gas composition monitor that is also capable of measuring the Oconcentration correcting for excess (infiltration) air or you must operate, maintain, and calibrate a second monitor capable of measuring the Oconcentration on a dry basis according to the manufacturer's specifications.

(2) Use Equation TT-9 of this section to correct the measured CHconcentration to 0% oxygen. If multiple CHconcentration measurements are made during the reporting year, determine F separately for each measurement made during the reporting year, and use the results to determine the arithmetic average value of F for use in Equation TT-1 of this part.

(h) The facility shall document the procedures used to ensure the accuracy of the estimates of disposal quantities and, if the industrial waste landfill has a gas collection system, gas flow rate, gas composition, temperature, pressure, and moisture content measurements. These procedures include, but are not limited to, calibration of weighing equipment, fuel flow meters, and other measurement devices. The estimated accuracy of measurements made with these devices shall also be recorded, and the technical basis for these estimates shall be provided.
