
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart TT - Industrial Waste Landfills
###### § 98.463 Calculating GHG emissions.
####### i.e.,

(A) For years in which waste stream-specific disposal quantities are determined (as required in paragraphs (a)(2) (ii)(A) and (B) of this section), calculate the average DOC value for a given waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOC measurements of that waste stream that follow the methods provided in § 98.464(b), including any measurement values for years prior to the first reporting year and the four measurement values required in the first reporting year. Use the resulting waste-specific average DOC value for all applicable years (years in which waste stream-specific disposal quantities are determined) for which direct DOC measurement data are not available.

(B) For years for which bulk waste disposal quantities are determined according to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section, calculate the weighted average bulk DOC value according to the following: Calculate the average DOC value for each waste stream as the arithmetic average of all DOC measurements of that waste stream that follows the methods provided in § 98.464(b) (generally, this will include only the DOC values determined in the first year in which GHG emissions from this industrial waste landfill must be reported); calculate the average annual disposal quantity for each waste stream as the arithmetic average of the annual disposal quantities for each year in which waste stream-specific disposal quantities have been determined; and calculate the bulk waste DOC value using Equation TT-5 of this section. Use the bulk waste DOC value as DOCfor all years for which bulk waste disposal quantities are determined according to paragraphs (a)(2)(ii)(C) of this section.

(b) For each landfill, calculate CHgeneration (adjusted for oxidation in cover materials) and CHemissions (taking into account any CHrecovery, if applicable, and oxidation in cover materials) according to the applicable methods in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(3) of this section.

(1) For each landfill, calculate CHgeneration, adjusted for oxidation, from the modeled CH(Gfrom Equation TT-1 of this section) using Equation TT-6 of this section.

(2) For landfills that do not have landfill gas collection systems operating during the reporting year, the CHemissions are equal to the CHgeneration (MG) calculated in Equation TT-6 of this section.

(3) For landfills with landfill gas collection systems in operation during any portion of the reporting year, perform all of the calculations specified in paragraphs (b)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section.

(i) Calculate the quantity of CHrecovered according to the requirements at § 98.343(b).

(ii) Calculate CHemissions using the Equation HH-6 of § 98.343(c)(3)(i), except use Gdetermined using Equation TT-1 of this section in Equation HH-6 of § 98.343(c)(3)(i).

(iii) Calculate CHgeneration (MG) from the quantity of CHrecovered using Equation HH-7 of § 98.343(c)(3)(ii).

(iv) Calculate CHemissions from the quantity of CHrecovered using Equation HH-8 of § 98.343(c)(3)(ii).
