
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart UU - Injection of Carbon Dioxide
###### § 98.472 GHGs to report.
############# § 98.473 Calculating COreceived.

(a) You must calculate and report the annual mass of COreceived by pipeline using the procedures in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(2) of this section and the procedures in paragraph (a)(3) of this section, if applicable.

(1) For a mass flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of COin a COstream received in metric tons by multiplying the mass flow by the COconcentration in the flow, according to Equation UU-1 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Mass flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.474.

(2) For a volumetric flow meter, you must calculate the total annual mass of COin a COstream received in metric tons by multiplying the volumetric flow at standard conditions by the COconcentration in the flow and the density of COat standard conditions, according to Equation UU-2 of this section. You must collect these data quarterly. Volumetric flow and concentration data measurements must be made in accordance with § 98.474.

(3) If you receive COthrough more than one flow meter, you must sum the mass of all COreceived in accordance with the procedure specified in Equation UU-3 of this section.

(b) You must calculate and report the annual mass of COreceived in containers using the procedures specified in either paragraph (b)(1) or (b)(2) of this section.

(1) If you are measuring the mass of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.474(a)(2)(i), you must calculate the COreceived in containers using Equation UU-1 of this section.

(2) If you are measuring the volume of contents in a container under the provisions of § 98.474(a)(2)(ii), you must calculate the COreceived in containers using Equation UU-2 of this section.
