
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 98 - MANDATORY GREENHOUSE GAS REPORTING
##### Subpart UU - Injection of Carbon Dioxide
###### § 98.476 Data reporting requirements.

If you are subject to this part and report under this subpart, you are not required to report the information in § 98.3(c)(4) for this subpart. In addition to the information required by § 98.3(c)(1) through § 98.3(c)(3) and by § 98.3(c)(5) through § 98.3(c)(9), you must report the information listed in this section.

(a) If you receive COby pipeline, report the following for each receiving flow meter:

(1) The total net mass of COreceived (metric tons) annually.

(2) If a volumetric flow meter is used to receive CO:

(i) The volumetric flow through a receiving flow meter at standard conditions (in standard cubic meters) in each quarter.

(ii) The volumetric flow through a receiving flow meter that is redelivered to another facility without being injected into your well (in standard cubic meters) in each quarter.

(iii) The COconcentration in the flow (volume percent COexpressed as a decimal fraction) in each quarter.

(3) If a mass flow meter is used to receive CO:

(i) The mass flow through a receiving flow meter (in metric tons) in each quarter.

(ii) The mass flow through a receiving flow meter that is redelivered to another facility without being injected into your well (in metric tons) in each quarter.

(iii) The COconcentration in the flow (weight percent COexpressed as a decimal fraction) in each quarter.

(4) The standard or method used to calculate each value in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(3) of this section.

(5) The number of times in the reporting year for which substitute data procedures were used to calculate values reported in paragraphs (a)(2) through (a)(3) of this section.

(6) Whether the flow meter is mass or volumetric.

(b) If you receive COin containers, report:

(1) The mass (in metric tons) or volume at standard conditions (in standard cubic meters) of contents in containers in each quarter.

(2) The concentration of COof contents in containers (volume or weight percent COexpressed as a decimal fraction) in each quarter.

(3) The mass (in metric tons) or volume (in standard cubic meters) of contents in containers that is redelivered to another facility without being injected into your well in each quarter.

(4) The net total mass of COreceived (in metric tons) annually.

(5) The standard or method used to calculate each value in paragraphs (b)(1), (b)(2), and (b)(3) of this section.

(6) The number of times in the reporting year for which substitute data procedures were used to calculate values reported in paragraphs (b)(1) and (b)(2) of this section.

(c) If you use more than one receiving flow meter, report the net total mass of COreceived (metric tons) through all flow meters annually.

(d) The source of the COreceived according to the following categories:

(1) COproduction wells.

(2) Electric generating unit.

(3) Ethanol plant.

(4) Pulp and paper mill.

(5) Natural gas processing.

(6) Gasification operations.

(7) Other anthropogenic source.

(8) Discontinued enhanced oil and gas recovery project.

(9) Unknown.

(e) Report the following:

(1) Whether the facility received a Research and Development project exemption from reporting under 40 CFR part 98, subpart RR, for this reporting year. If you received an exemption, report the start and end dates of the exemption approved by EPA.

(2) Whether the facility includes a well or group of wells where a COstream was injected into subsurface geologic formations to enhance the recovery of oil during this reporting year.

(3) Whether the facility includes a well or group of wells where a COstream was injected into subsurface geologic formations to enhance the recovery of natural gas during this reporting year.

(4) Whether the facility includes a well or group of wells where a COstream was injected into subsurface geologic formations for acid gas disposal during this reporting year.

(5) Whether the facility includes a well or group of wells where a COstream was injected for a purpose other than those listed in paragraphs (e)(1) through (4) of this section. If you injected COfor another purpose, report the purpose of the injection.
