
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Subpart A - Applicability, Definitions, and General Requirements for All Facilities and All Types of Oils
###### § 112.3 Requirement to prepare and implement a Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plan.

The owner or operator or an onshore or offshore facility subject to this section must prepare in writing and implement a Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure Plan (hereafter "SPCC Plan" or "Plan")," in accordance with § 112.7 and any other applicable section of this part.

(a)(1) Except as otherwise provided in this section, if your facility, or mobile or portable facility, was in operation on or before August 16, 2002, you must maintain your Plan, but must amend it, if necessary to ensure compliance with this part, and implement the amended Plan no later than November 10, 2011. If such a facility becomes operational after August 16, 2002, through November 10, 2011, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan on or before November 10, 2011. If such a facility (excluding oil production facilities) becomes operational after November 10, 2011, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan before you begin operations. You are not required to prepare a new Plan each time you move a mobile or portable facility to a new site; the Plan may be general. When you move the mobile or portable facility, you must locate and install it using the discharge prevention practices outlined in the Plan for the facility. The Plan is applicable only while the mobile or portable facility is in a fixed (non-transportation) operating mode.

(2) If your drilling, production or workover facility, including a mobile or portable facility, is offshore or has an offshore component; or your onshore facility is required to have and submit a Facility Response Plan pursuant to 40 CFR 112.20(a), and was in operation on or before August 16, 2002, you must maintain your Plan, but must amend it, if necessary to ensure compliance with this part, and implement the amended Plan no later than November 10, 2010. If such a facility becomes operational after August 16, 2002, through November 10, 2010, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan on or before November 10, 2010. If such a facility (excluding oil production facilities) becomes operational after November 10, 2010, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan before you begin operations. You are not required to prepare a new Plan each time you move a mobile or portable facility to a new site; the Plan may be general. When you move the mobile or portable facility, you must locate and install it using the discharge prevention practices outlined in the Plan for the facility. The Plan is applicable only while the mobile or portable facility is in a fixed (non-transportation) operating mode.

(3) If your farm, as defined in § 112.2, was in operation on or before August 16, 2002, you must maintain your Plan, but must amend it, if necessary to ensure compliance with this part, and implement the amended Plan on or before May 10, 2013. If your farm becomes operational after August 16, 2002, through May 10, 2013, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan on or before May 10, 2013. If your farm becomes operational after May 10, 2013, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan before you begin operations.

(b) If your oil production facility as described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section becomes operational after November 10, 2011, or as described in paragraph (a)(2) of this section becomes operational after November 10, 2010, and could reasonably be expected to have a discharge as described in § 112.1(b), you must prepare and implement a Plan within six months after you begin operations.

(c) [Reserved]

(d) Except as provided in § 112.6, a licensed Professional Engineer must review and certify a Plan for it to be effective to satisfy the requirements of this part.

(1) By means of this certification the Professional Engineer attests:

(i) That he is familiar with the requirements of this part ;

(ii) That he or his agent has visited and examined the facility;

(iii) That the Plan has been prepared in accordance with good engineering practice, including consideration of applicable industry standards, and with the requirements of this part;

(iv) That procedures for required inspections and testing have been established; and

(v) That the Plan is adequate for the facility.

(vi) That, if applicable, for a produced water container subject to § 112.9(c)(6), any procedure to minimize the amount of free-phase oil is designed to reduce the accumulation of free-phase oil and the procedures and frequency for required inspections, maintenance and testing have been established and are described in the Plan.

(2) Such certification shall in no way relieve the owner or operator of a facility of his duty to prepare and fully implement such Plan in accordance with the requirements of this part.

(e) If you are the owner or operator of a facility for which a Plan is required under this section, you must:

(1) Maintain a complete copy of the Plan at the facility if the facility is normally attended at least four hours per day, or at the nearest field office if the facility is not so attended, and

(2) Have the Plan available to the Regional Administrator for on-site review during normal working hours.
