
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Petroleum Oils and Non-Petroleum Oils, Except Animal Fats and Oils and Greases, and Fish and Marine Mammal Oils; and Vegetable Oils (Including Oils from Seeds, Nuts, Fruits, and Kernels)
###### ยง 112.8 Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plan requirements for onshore facilities (excluding production facilities).
####### Facility drainage.

(b)(1) Restrain drainage from diked storage areas by valves to prevent a discharge into the drainage system or facility effluent treatment system, except where facility systems are designed to control such discharge. You may empty diked areas by pumps or ejectors; however, you must manually activate these pumps or ejectors and must inspect the condition of the accumulation before starting, to ensure no oil will be discharged.

(2) Use valves of manual, open-and-closed design, for the drainage of diked areas. You may not use flapper-type drain valves to drain diked areas. If your facility drainage drains directly into a watercourse and not into an on-site wastewater treatment plant, you must inspect and may drain uncontaminated retained stormwater, as provided in paragraphs (c)(3)(ii), (iii), and (iv) of this section.

(3) Design facility drainage systems from undiked areas with a potential for a discharge (such as where piping is located outside containment walls or where tank truck discharges may occur outside the loading area) to flow into ponds, lagoons, or catchment basins designed to retain oil or return it to the facility. You must not locate catchment basins in areas subject to periodic flooding.

(4) If facility drainage is not engineered as in paragraph (b)(3) of this section, equip the final discharge of all ditches inside the facility with a diversion system that would, in the event of an uncontrolled discharge, retain oil in the facility.

(5) Where drainage waters are treated in more than one treatment unit and such treatment is continuous, and pump transfer is needed, provide two "lift" pumps and permanently install at least one of the pumps. Whatever techniques you use, you must engineer facility drainage systems to prevent a discharge as described in ยง 112.1(b) in case there is an equipment failure or human error at the facility.
