
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Subpart B - Requirements for Petroleum Oils and Non-Petroleum Oils, Except Animal Fats and Oils and Greases, and Fish and Marine Mammal Oils; and Vegetable Oils (Including Oils from Seeds, Nuts, Fruits, and Kernels)
###### ยง 112.9 Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasure Plan Requirements for onshore oil production facilities (excluding drilling and workover facilities).
####### Oil production facility bulk storage containers.

(c)(1) Not use a container for the storage of oil unless its material and construction are compatible with the material stored and the conditions of storage.

(2) Except as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section for flow-through process vessels and paragraph (c)(6) of this section for produced water containers and any associated piping and appurtenances downstream from the container, construct all tank battery, separation, and treating facility installations, so that you provide a secondary means of containment for the entire capacity of the largest single container and sufficient freeboard to contain precipitation. You must safely confine drainage from undiked areas in a catchment basin or holding pond.

(3) Except as described in paragraph (c)(5) of this section for flow-through process vessels and paragraph (c)(6) of this section for produced water containers and any associated piping and appurtenances downstream from the container, periodically and upon a regular schedule visually inspect each container of oil for deterioration and maintenance needs, including the foundation and support of each container that is on or above the surface of the ground.

(4) Engineer or update new and old tank battery installations in accordance with good engineering practice to prevent discharges. You must provide at least one of the following:

(i) Container capacity adequate to assure that a container will not overfill if a pumper/gauger is delayed in making regularly scheduled rounds.

(ii) Overflow equalizing lines between containers so that a full container can overflow to an adjacent container.

(iii) Vacuum protection adequate to prevent container collapse during a pipeline run or other transfer of oil from the container.

(iv) High level sensors to generate and transmit an alarm signal to the computer where the facility is subject to a computer production control system.
