
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Subpart D - Response Requirements
###### ยง 112.20 Facility response plans.
####### et seq.

(g)(1) All facility response plans shall be consistent with the requirements of the National Oil and Hazardous Substance Pollution Contingency Plan (40 CFR part 300) and applicable Area Contingency Plans prepared pursuant to section 311(j)(4) of the Clean Water Act. The facility response plan should be coordinated with the local emergency response plan developed by the local emergency planning committee under section 303 of Title III of the Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 11001). Upon request, the owner or operator should provide a copy of the facility response plan to the local emergency planning committee or State emergency response commission.

(2) The owner or operator shall review relevant portions of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Pollution Contingency Plan and applicable Area Contingency Plan annually and, if necessary, revise the facility response plan to ensure consistency with these plans.

(3) The owner or operator shall review and update the facility response plan periodically to reflect changes at the facility.

(h) A response plan shall follow the format of the model facility-specific response plan included in appendix F to this part, unless you have prepared an equivalent response plan acceptable to the Regional Administrator to meet State or other Federal requirements. A response plan that does not follow the specified format in appendix F to this part shall have an emergency response action plan as specified in paragraphs (h)(1) of this section and be supplemented with a cross-reference section to identify the location of the elements listed in paragraphs (h)(2) through (h)(10) of this section. To meet the requirements of this part, a response plan shall address the following elements, as further described in appendix F to this part:
