
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Subpart D - Response Requirements
###### ยง 112.21 Facility response training and drills/exercises.

(a) The owner or operator of any facility required to prepare a facility response plan under ยง 112.20 shall develop and implement a facility response training program and a drill/exercise program that satisfy the requirements of this section. The owner or operator shall describe the programs in the response plan as provided in ยง 112.20(h)(8).

(b) The facility owner or operator shall develop a facility response training program to train those personnel involved in oil spill response activities. It is recommended that the training program be based on the USCG's Training Elements for Oil Spill Response, as applicable to facility operations. An alternative program can also be acceptable subject to approval by the Regional Administrator.

(1) The owner or operator shall be responsible for the proper instruction of facility personnel in the procedures to respond to discharges of oil and in applicable oil spill response laws, rules, and regulations.

(2) Training shall be functional in nature according to job tasks for both supervisory and non-supervisory operational personnel.

(3) Trainers shall develop specific lesson plans on subject areas relevant to facility personnel involved in oil spill response and cleanup.

(c) The facility owner or operator shall develop a program of facility response drills/exercises, including evaluation procedures. A program that follows the National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability) will be deemed satisfactory for purposes of this section. An alternative program can also be acceptable subject to approval by the Regional Administrator.
