
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Subpart D - Response Requirements
###### ยง 112.20 Facility response plans.
####### Response plan cover sheet.

(11)The response plan shall include a completed response plan cover sheet provided in section 2.0 of appendix F to this part.

(i)(1) In the event the owner or operator of a facility does not agree with the Regional Administrator's determination that the facility could, because of its location, reasonably be expected to cause substantial harm or significant and substantial harm to the environment by discharging oil into or on the navigable waters or adjoining shorelines, or that amendments to the facility response plan are necessary prior to approval, such as changes to the worst case discharge planning volume, the owner or operator may submit a request for reconsideration to the Regional Administrator and provide additional information and data in writing to support the request. The request and accompanying information must be submitted to the Regional Administrator within 60 days of receipt of notice of the Regional Administrator's original decision. The Regional Administrator shall consider the request and render a decision as rapidly as practicable.

(2) In the event the owner or operator of a facility believes a change in the facility's classification status is warranted because of an unplanned event or change in the facility's characteristics (i.e., substantial harm or significant and substantial harm), the owner or operator may submit a request for reconsideration to the Regional Administrator and provide additional information and data in writing to support the request. The Regional Administrator shall consider the request and render a decision as rapidly as practicable.

(3) After a request for reconsideration under paragraph (i)(1) or (i)(2) of this section has been denied by the Regional Administrator, an owner or operator may appeal a determination made by the Regional Administrator. The appeal shall be made to the EPA Administrator and shall be made in writing within 60 days of receipt of the decision from the Regional Administrator that the request for reconsideration was denied. A complete copy of the appeal must be sent to the Regional Administrator at the time the appeal is made. The appeal shall contain a clear and concise statement of the issues and points of fact in the case. It also may contain additional information from the owner or operator, or from any other person. The EPA Administrator may request additional information from the owner or operator, or from any other person. The EPA Administrator shall render a decision as rapidly as practicable and shall notify the owner or operator of the decision.
