
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix C to Part 112 - Substantial Harm Criteria
###### Facilities That Have Experienced Reportable Oil Discharges in an Amount Greater Than or Equal to 10,000 Gallons Within the Past 5 Years and That Have a Total Oil Storage Capacity Greater Than or Equal to 1 Million Gallons.

2.5A facility's oil spill history within the past 5 years shall be considered in the evaluation for substantial harm. Any facility with a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons that has experienced a reportable oil discharge in an amount greater than or equal to 10,000 gallons within the past 5 years must submit a response plan to EPA.

If the facility does not meet the substantial harm criteria listed in Attachment C-I to this appendix, the owner or operator shall complete and maintain at the facility the certification form contained in Attachment C-II to this appendix. In the event an alternative formula that is comparable to the one in this appendix is used to evaluate the substantial harm criteria, the owner or operator shall attach documentation to the certification form that demonstrates the reliability and analytical soundness of the comparable formula and shall notify the Regional Administrator in writing that an alternative formula was used.

Chow, V.T. 1959. Open Channel Hydraulics. McGraw Hill.

USCG IFR (58 FR 7353, February 5, 1993). This document is available through EPA's rulemaking docket as noted in appendix E to this part, section 13.

1. Does the facility transfer oil over water to or from vessels and does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 42,000 gallons?

Yes ____ No ____

2. Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and does the facility lack secondary containment that is sufficiently large to contain the capacity of the largest aboveground oil storage tank plus sufficient freeboard to allow for precipitation within any aboveground oil storage tank area?

Yes ____ No ____

3. Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and is the facility located at a distance (as calculated using the appropriate formula in Attachment C-III to this appendix or a comparable formula) such that a discharge from the facility could cause injury to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments? For further description of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, see Appendices I, II, and III to DOC/NOAA's "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments" (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability) and the applicable Area Contingency Plan.

Yes ____ No ____

4. Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and is the facility located at a distance (as calculated using the appropriate formula in Attachment C-III to this appendix or a comparable formula) such that a discharge from the facility would shut down a public drinking water intake?

Yes ____ No ____

5. Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and has the facility experienced a reportable oil discharge in an amount greater than or equal to 10,000 gallons within the last 5 years?

Yes ____ No ____

I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this document, and that based on my inquiry of those individuals responsible for obtaining this information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete.

1.1 The facility owner or operator must evaluate whether the facility is located at a distance such that a discharge from the facility could cause injury to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments or disrupt operations at a public drinking water intake. To quantify that distance, EPA considered oil transport mechanisms over land and on still, tidal influence, and moving navigable waters. EPA has determined that the primary concern for calculation of a planning distance is the transport of oil in navigable waters during adverse weather conditions. Therefore, two formulas have been developed to determine distances for planning purposes from the point of discharge at the facility to the potential site of impact on moving and still waters, respectively. The formula for oil transport on moving navigable water is based on the velocity of the water body and the time interval for arrival of response resources. The still water formula accounts for the spread of discharged oil over the surface of the water. The method to determine oil transport on tidal influence areas is based on the type of oil discharged and the distance down current during ebb tide and up current during flood tide to the point of maximum tidal influence.

1.2 EPA's formulas were designed to be simple to use. However, facility owners or operators may calculate planning distances using more sophisticated formulas, which take into account broader scientific or engineering principles, or local conditions. Such comparable formulas may result in different planning distances than EPA's formulas. In the event that an alternative formula that is comparable to one contained in this appendix is used to evaluate the criterion in 40 CFR 112.20(f)(1)(ii)(B) or (f)(1)(ii)(C), the owner or operator shall attach documentation to the response plan cover sheet contained in appendix F to this part that demonstrates the reliability and analytical soundness of the alternative formula and shall notify the Regional Administrator in writing that an alternative formula was used.

1.3 A regulated facility may meet the criteria for the potential to cause substantial harm to the environment without having to perform a planning distance calculation. For facilities that meet the substantial harm criteria because of inadequate secondary containment or oil spill history, as listed in the flowchart in Attachment C-I to this appendix, calculation of the planning distance is unnecessary. For facilities that do not meet the substantial harm criteria for secondary containment or oil spill history as listed in the flowchart, calculation of a planning distance for proximity to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments and public drinking water intakes is required, unless it is clear without performing the calculation (e.g., the facility is located in a wetland) that these areas would be impacted.

1.4 A facility owner or operator who must perform a planning distance calculation on navigable water is only required to do so for the type of navigable water conditions (i.e., moving water, still water, or tidal- influenced water) applicable to the facility. If a facility owner or operator determines that more than one type of navigable water condition applies, then the facility owner or operator is required to perform a planning distance calculation for each navigable water type to determine the greatest single distance that oil may be transported. As a result, the final planning distance for oil transport on water shall be the greatest individual distance rather than a summation of each calculated planning distance.

1.5 The planning distance formula for transport on moving waterways contains three variables: the velocity of the navigable water (v), the response time interval (t), and a conversion factor (c). The velocity, v, is determined by using the Chezy-Manning equation, which, in this case, models the flood flow rate of water in open channels. The Chezy-Manning equation contains three variables which must be determined by facility owners or operators. Manning's Roughness Coefficient (for flood flow rates), n, can be determined from Table 1 of this attachment. The hydraulic radius, r, can be estimated using the average mid-channel depth from charts provided by the sources listed in Table 2 of this attachment. The average slope of the river, s, can be determined using topographic maps that can be ordered from the U.S. Geological Survey, as listed in Table 2 of this attachment.

1.6 Table 3 of this attachment contains specified time intervals for estimating the arrival of response resources at the scene of a discharge. Assuming no prior planning, response resources should be able to arrive at the discharge site within 12 hours of the discovery of any oil discharge in Higher Volume Port Areas and within 24 hours in Great Lakes and all other river, canal, inland, and nearshore areas. The specified time intervals in Table 3 of appendix C are to be used only to aid in the identification of whether a facility could cause substantial harm to the environment. Once it is determined that a plan must be developed for the facility, the owner or operator shall reference appendix E to this part to determine appropriate resource levels and response times. The specified time intervals of this appendix include a 3-hour time period for deployment of boom and other response equipment. The Regional Administrator may identify additional areas as appropriate.

2.1 The facility owner or operator must use the following formula or a comparable formula as described in ยง 112.20(a)(3) to calculate the planning distance for oil transport on moving navigable water:

2.2 Chezy-Manning's equation is used to determine velocity:

2.3 The average slope of the river (s) can be determined from the topographic maps using the following steps:

(1) Locate the facility on the map.

(2) Find the Normal Pool Elevation at the point of discharge from the facility into the water (A).

(3) Find the Normal Pool Elevation of the public drinking water intake or fish and wildlife and sensitive environment located downstream (B) (Note: The owner or operator should use a minimum of 20 miles downstream as a cutoff to obtain the average slope if the location of a specific public drinking water intake or fish and wildlife and sensitive environment is unknown).

(4) If the Normal Pool Elevation is not available, the elevation contours can be used to find the slope. Determine elevation of the water at the point of discharge from the facility (A). Determine the elevation of the water at the appropriate distance downstream (B). The formula presented below can be used to calculate the slope.

(5) Determine the distance (in miles) between the facility and the public drinking water intake or fish and wildlife and sensitive environments (C).

(6) Use the following formula to find the slope, which will be a unitless value: Average Slope=[(A-B) (ft)/C (miles)] x [1 mile/5280 feet]

2.4 If it is not feasible to determine the slope and mid-channel depth by the Chezy-Manning equation, then the river velocity can be approximated on- site. A specific length, such as 100 feet, can be marked off along the shoreline. A float can be dropped into the stream above the mark, and the time required for the float to travel the distance can be used to determine the velocity in feet per second. However, this method will not yield an average velocity for the length of the stream, but a velocity only for the specific location of measurement. In addition, the flow rate will vary depending on weather conditions such as wind and rainfall. It is recommended that facility owners or operators repeat the measurement under a variety of conditions to obtain the most accurate estimate of the surface water velocity under adverse weather conditions.

2.5 The planning distance calculations for moving and still navigable waters are based on worst case discharges of persistent oils. Persistent oils are of concern because they can remain in the water for significant periods of time and can potentially exist in large quantities downstream. Owners or operators of facilities that store persistent as well as non-persistent oils may use a comparable formula. The volume of oil discharged is not included as part of the planning distance calculation for moving navigable waters. Facilities that will meet this substantial harm criterion are those with facility capacities greater than or equal to 1 million gallons. It is assumed that these facilities are capable of having an oil discharge of sufficient quantity to cause injury to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments or shut down a public drinking water intake. While owners or operators of transfer facilities that store greater than or equal to 42,000 gallons are not required to use a planning distance formula for purposes of the substantial harm criteria, they should use a planning distance calculation in the development of facility-specific response plans.
