
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix C to Part 112 - Substantial Harm Criteria
###### Example of the Planning Distance Calculation for Oil Transport on Moving Navigable Waters.

2.6The following example provides a sample calculation using the planning distance formula for a facility discharging oil into the Monongahela River:

(1) Solve for v by evaluating n, r, and s for the Chezy-Manning equation:

Find the roughness coefficient, n, on Table 1 of this attachment for a regular section of a major stream with a top width greater than 100 feet. The top width of the river can be found from the topographic map.

The average mid-channel depth is found by averaging the mid-channel depth for each mile along the length of the river between the facility and the public drinking water intake or the fish or wildlife or sensitive environment (or 20 miles downstream if applicable). This value is multiplied by 0.667 to obtain the hydraulic radius. The mid-channel depth is found by obtaining values for r and s from the sources shown in Table 2 for the Monongahela River.

(2) Find t from Table 3 of this attachment. The Monongahela River's resource response time is 27 hours.

(3) Solve for planning distance, d:

3.1 For bodies of water including lakes or ponds that do not have a measurable velocity, the spreading of the oil over the surface must be considered. Owners or operators of facilities located next to still water bodies may use a comparable means of calculating the planning distance. If a comparable formula is used, documentation of the reliability and analytical soundness of the comparable calculation must be attached to the response plan cover sheet.
