
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix C to Part 112 - Substantial Harm Criteria
###### Example of the Planning Distance Calculation for Oil Transport on Still Water.

3.2To assist those facilities which could potentially discharge into a still body of water, the following analysis was performed to provide an example of the type of formula that may be used to calculate the planning distance. For this example, a worst case discharge of 2,000,000 gallons is used.

(1) The surface area in square feet covered by an oil discharge on still water, A1, can be determined by the following formula,where V is the volume of the discharge in gallons and C is a constant conversion factor:

(2) The spreading formula is based on the theoretical condition that the oil will spread uniformly in all directions forming a circle. In reality, the outfall of the discharge will direct the oil to the surface of the water where it intersects the shoreline. Although the oil will not spread uniformly in all directions, it is assumed that the discharge will spread from the shoreline into a semi-circle (this assumption does not account for winds or wave action).

(3) The area of a circle=&#x2020; r

(4) To account for the assumption that oil will spread in a semi-circular shape, the area of a circle is divided by 2 and is designated as A.

(5) To estimate the distance that the oil will travel, use the times required for response resources to arrive at different geographic locations as shown in Table 3 of this attachment.

(6) The total distance that the oil will travel from the point of discharge, including the distance due to spreading, is calculated as follows:

4.1 The planning distance method for tidal influence navigable water is based on worst case discharges of persistent and non-persistent oils. Persistent oils are of primary concern because they can potentially cause harm over a greater distance. For persistent oils discharged into tidal waters, the planning distance is 15 miles from the facility down current during ebb tide and to the point of maximum tidal influence or 15 miles, whichever is less, during flood tide.

4.2 For non-persistent oils discharged into tidal waters, the planning distance is 5 miles from the facility down current during ebb tide and to the point of maximum tidal influence or 5 miles, whichever is less, during flood tide.
