
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix D to Part 112 - Determination of a Worst Case Discharge Planning Volume

1.1 An owner or operator is required to complete this worksheet if the facility meets the criteria, as presented in appendix C to this part, or it is determined by the RA that the facility could cause substantial harm to the environment. The calculation of a worst case discharge planning volume is used for emergency planning purposes, and is required in 40 CFR 112.20 for facility owners or operators who must prepare a response plan. When planning for the amount of resources and equipment necessary to respond to the worst case discharge planning volume, adverse weather conditions must be taken into consideration. An owner or operator is required to determine the facility's worst case discharge planning volume from either part A of this appendix for an onshore storage facility, or part B of this appendix for an onshore production facility. The worksheet considers the provision of adequate secondary containment at a facility.

1.2 For onshore storage facilities and production facilities, permanently manifolded oil storage tanks are defined as tanks that are designed, installed, and/or operated in such a manner that the multiple tanks function as one storage unit (i.e., multiple tank volumes are equalized). In a worst case discharge scenario, a single failure could cause the discharge of the contents of more than one tank. The owner or operator must provide evidence in the response plan that tanks with common piping or piping systems are not operated as one unit. If such evidence is provided and is acceptable to the RA, the worst case discharge planning volume would be based on the capacity of the largest oil storage tank within a common secondary containment area or the largest oil storage tank within a single secondary containment area, whichever is greater. For permanently manifolded tanks that function as one oil storage unit, the worst case discharge planning volume would be based on the combined oil storage capacity of all manifolded tanks or the capacity of the largest single oil storage tank within a secondary containment area, whichever is greater. For purposes of this rule, permanently manifolded tanks that are separated by internal divisions for each tank are considered to be single tanks and individual manifolded tank volumes are not combined.

1.3 For production facilities, the presence of exploratory wells, production wells, and oil storage tanks must be considered in the calculation. Part B of this appendix takes these additional factors into consideration and provides steps for their inclusion in the total worst case discharge planning volume. Onshore oil production facilities may include all wells, flowlines, separation equipment, storage facilities, gathering lines, and auxiliary non-transportation-related equipment and facilities in a single geographical oil or gas field operated by a single operator. Although a potential worst case discharge planning volume is calculated within each section of the worksheet, the final worst case amount depends on the risk parameter that results in the greatest volume.

1.4 Marine transportation-related transfer facilities that contain fixed aboveground onshore structures used for bulk oil storage are jointly regulated by EPA and the U.S. Coast Guard (USCG), and are termed "complexes." Because the USCG also requires response plans from transportation-related facilities to address a worst case discharge of oil, a separate calculation for the worst case discharge planning volume for USCG-related facilities is included in the USCG IFR (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability). All complexes that are jointly regulated by EPA and the USCG must compare both calculations for worst case discharge planning volume derived by using the EPA and USCG methodologies and plan for whichever volume is greater.

Part A of this worksheet is to be completed by the owner or operator of an SPCC-regulated facility (excluding oil production facilities) if the facility meets the criteria as presented in appendix C to this part, or if it is determined by the RA that the facility could cause substantial harm to the environment. If you are the owner or operator of a production facility, please proceed to part B of this worksheet.

For facilities containing only one aboveground oil storage tank, the worst case discharge planning volume equals the capacity of the oil storage tank. If adequate secondary containment (sufficiently large to contain the capacity of the aboveground oil storage tank plus sufficient freeboard to allow for precipitation) exists for the oil storage tank, multiply the capacity of the tank by 0.8.

(1) FINAL WORST CASE VOLUME: ____ GAL

(2) Do not proceed further.
