
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix C to Part 112 - Substantial Harm Criteria
###### Example of Determining the Planning Distance for Two Types of Navigable Water Conditions.

4.3Below is an example of how to determine the proper planning distance when a facility could impact two types of navigable water conditions: moving water and tidal water.

(1) Facility X stores persistent oil and is located downstream from locks along a slow moving river which is affected by tides. The river velocity, v, is determined to be 0.5 feet/second from the Chezy-Manning equation used to calculate oil transport on moving navigable waters. The specified time interval, t, obtained from Table 3 of this attachment for river areas is 27 hours. Therefore, solving for the planning distance, d:

(2) However, the planning distance for maximum tidal influence down current during ebb tide is 15 miles, which is greater than the calculated 9.18 miles. Therefore, 15 miles downstream is the appropriate planning distance for this facility.

5.1 Facility owners or operators must evaluate the potential for oil to be transported over land to navigable waters of the United States. The owner or operator must evaluate the likelihood that portions of a worst case discharge would reach navigable waters via open channel flow or from sheet flow across the land, or be prevented from reaching navigable waters when trapped in natural or man-made depressions excluding secondary containment structures.

5.2 As discharged oil travels over land, it may enter a storm drain or open concrete channel intended for drainage. It is assumed that once oil reaches such an inlet, it will flow into the receiving navigable water. During a storm event, it is highly probable that the oil will either flow into the drainage structures or follow the natural contours of the land and flow into the navigable water. Expected minimum and maximum velocities are provided as examples of open concrete channel and pipe flow. The ranges listed below reflect minimum and maximum velocities used as design criteria.The calculation below demonstrates that the time required for oil to travel through a storm drain or open concrete channel to navigable water is negligible and can be considered instantaneous. The velocities are:

5.3 Assuming a length of 0.5 mile from the point of discharge through an open concrete channel or concrete storm drain to a navigable water, the travel times (distance/velocity) are:

5.4 The distances that shall be considered to determine the planning distance are illustrated in Figure C-I of this attachment. The relevant distances can be described as follows:

5.5 A facility owner or operator whose nearest opportunity for discharge is located within 0.5 mile of a navigable water must complete the planning distance calculation (D3) for the type of navigable water near the facility or use a comparable formula.

5.6 A facility that is located at a distance greater than 0.5 mile from a navigable water must also calculate a planning distance (D3) if it is in close proximity (i.e., D1 is less than 0.5 mile and other factors are conducive to oil travel over land) to storm drains that flow to navigable waters. Factors to be considered in assessing oil transport over land to storm drains shall include the topography of the surrounding area, drainage patterns, man-made barriers (excluding secondary containment structures), and soil distribution and porosity. Storm drains or concrete drainage channels that are located in close proximity to the facility can provide a direct pathway to navigable waters, regardless of the length of the drainage pipe. If D1 is less than or equal to 0.5 mile, a discharge from the facility could pose substantial harm because the time to travel the distance from the storm drain to the navigable water (D2) is virtually instantaneous.

5.7 A facility's proximity to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments not bordering a navigable water, as depicted as D4 in Figure C-I of this attachment, must also be considered, regardless of the distance from the facility to navigable waters. Factors to be considered in assessing oil transport over land to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments should include the topography of the surrounding area, drainage patterns, man-made barriers (excluding secondary containment structures), and soil distribution and porosity.

5.8 If a facility is not found to pose substantial harm to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments not bordering navigable waters via oil transport on land, then supporting documentation should be maintained at the facility. However, such documentation should be submitted with the response plan if a facility is found to pose substantial harm.
