
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix D to Part 112 - Determination of a Worst Case Discharge Planning Volume
###### all

B.2.2 If the answer is no, calculate the total aboveground oil storage capacity of tanks without adequate secondary containment. Ifaboveground oil storage tanks or groups of aboveground oil storage tanks at the facility have adequate secondary containment, ENTER "0" (zero).

B.2.3 Calculate the capacity of the largest single aboveground oil storage tank within an adequate secondary containment area or the combined capacity of a group of aboveground oil storage tanks permanently manifolded together, whichever is greater, plus the production volume of the well with the highest output, PLUS THE VOLUME FROM QUESTION B.2.2. Attachment D-1 provides methods for calculating the production volumes for exploratory wells and production wells producing under pressure.

(1) FINAL WORST CASE VOLUME:____ GAL

(2) Do not proceed further.

The owner or operator of a production facility with exploratory wells or production wells producing under pressure shall compare the well rate of the highest output well (rate of well), in barrels per day, to the ability of response equipment and personnel to recover the volume of oil that could be discharged (rate of recovery), in barrels per day. The result of this comparison will determine the method used to calculate the production volume for the production facility. This production volume is to be used to calculate the worst case discharge planning volume in part B of this appendix.

2.1 Method A

If the well rate would overwhelm the response efforts (i.e., rate of well/rate of recovery ≥1), then the production volume would be the 30-day forecasted well rate for a well 10,000 feet deep or less, or the 45-day forecasted well rate for a well deeper than 10,000 feet.

(1) For wells 10,000 feet deep or less:

(2) For wells deeper than 10,000 feet:

2.2 Method B

2.2.1 If the rate of recovery would be greater than the well rate (i.e., rate of well/rate of recovery <1), then the production volume would equal the sum of two terms:

2.2.2 The first term represents the volume of the oil discharged from the well between the time of the blowout and the time the response resources are on scene and recovering oil (discharge volume).

2.2.3 The second term represents the volume of oil discharged from the well after the response resources begin operating until the discharge is stopped, adjusted for the recovery rate of the response resources (discharge volume).

(1) For wells 10,000 feet deep or less:

(2) For wells deeper than 10,000 feet:

3.1 A facility consists of two production wells producing under pressure, which are both less than 10,000 feet deep. The well rate of well A is 5 barrels per day, and the well rate of well B is 10 barrels per day. The facility is unattended for a maximum of 7 days. The facility operator estimates that it will take 2 days to have response equipment and personnel on scene and responding to a blowout, and that the projected rate of recovery will be 20 barrels per day.

(1) First, the facility operator determines that the highest output well is well B. The facility operator calculates the ratio of the rate of well to the rate of recovery:

(2) The first term of the equation is:

(3) The second term of the equation is:

(4) Therefore, the production volume is:

3.2 If the recovery rate was 5 barrels per day, the ratio of rate of well to rate of recovery would be 2, so the facility operator would use Method A. The production volume would have been:
