
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix D to Part 112 - Determination of a Worst Case Discharge Planning Volume
###### all

A.2.2 If the answer is no, calculate the total aboveground oil storage capacity of tanks without adequate secondary containment. Ifaboveground oil storage tanks or groups of aboveground oil storage tanks at the facility have adequate secondary containment, ENTER "0" (zero).

A.2.3 Calculate the capacity of the largest single aboveground oil storage tank within an adequate secondary containment area or the combined capacity of a group of aboveground oil storage tanks permanently manifolded together, whichever is greater, PLUS THE VOLUME FROM QUESTION A.2.2.

FINAL WORST CASE VOLUME:____ GAL

Part B of this worksheet is to be completed by the owner or operator of an SPCC-regulated oil production facility if the facility meets the criteria presented in appendix C to this part, or if it is determined by the RA that the facility could cause substantial harm. A production facility consists of all wells (producing and exploratory) and related equipment in a single geographical oil or gas field operated by a single operator.

B.1.1 For facilities containing only one aboveground oil storage tank, the worst case discharge planning volume equals the capacity of the aboveground oil storage tank plus the production volume of the well with the highest output at the facility. If adequate secondary containment (sufficiently large to contain the capacity of the aboveground oil storage tank plus sufficient freeboard to allow for precipitation) exists for the storage tank, multiply the capacity of the tank by 0.8.

B.1.2 For facilities with production wells producing by pumping, if the rate of the well with the highest output is known and the number of days the facility is unattended can be predicted, then the production volume is equal to the pumping rate of the well multiplied by the greatest number of days the facility is unattended.

B.1.3 If the pumping rate of the well with the highest output is estimated or the maximum number of days the facility is unattended is estimated, then the production volume is determined from the pumping rate of the well multiplied by 1.5 times the greatest number of days that the facility has been or is expected to be unattended.

B.1.4 Attachment D-1 to this appendix provides methods for calculating the production volume for exploratory wells and production wells producing under pressure.

(1) FINAL WORST CASE VOLUME: ____ GAL

(2) Do not proceed further.
