
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### Non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils.

3.2.2Owners or operators of complexes that handle, store, or transport non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils must plan for oil discharge volumes for a small discharge. There is no USCG planning level that directly corresponds to EPA's "small discharge." However, the USCG (at 33 CFR 154.545) has requirements to identify equipment to contain oil resulting from an operational discharge.

3.3 The response resources shall, as appropriate, include:

3.3.1 One thousand feet of containment boom (or, for complexes with marine transfer components, 1,000 feet of containment boom or two times the length of the largest vessel that regularly conducts oil transfers to or from the facility, whichever is greater), and a means of deploying it within 1 hour of the discovery of a discharge;

3.3.2 Oil recovery devices with an effective daily recovery capacity equal to the amount of oil discharged in a small discharge or greater which is available at the facility within 2 hours of the detection of an oil discharge; and

3.3.3 Oil storage capacity for recovered oily material indicated in section 12.2 of this appendix.

4.1 A facility owner or operator shall identify sufficient response resources available, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 112.2, to respond to a medium discharge of oil for that facility. This will require response resources capable of containing and collecting up to 36,000 gallons of oil or 10 percent of the worst case discharge, whichever is less. All equipment identified must be designed to operate in the applicable operating environment specified in Table 1 of this appendix.

4.2 Complexes that are regulated by EPA and the USCG must also consider planning quantities for the transportation-related transfer portion of the facility.
