
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### Non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils.

4.2.2Owners or operators of complexes that handle, store, or transport non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils must plan for oil discharge volumes for a medium discharge. For non-petroleum oils, there is no USCG planning level that directly corresponds to EPA's "medium discharge."

4.3 Oil recovery devices identified to meet the applicable medium discharge volume planning criteria must be located such that they are capable of arriving on-scene within 6 hours in higher volume port areas and the Great Lakes and within 12 hours in all other areas. Higher volume port areas and Great Lakes areas are defined in section 1.1 of appendix C to this part.

4.4 Because rapid control, containment, and removal of oil are critical to reduce discharge impact, the owner or operator must determine response resources using an effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices equal to 50 percent of the planning volume applicable for the facility as determined in section 4.1 of this appendix. The effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices identified in the plan must be determined using the criteria in section 6 of this appendix.

4.5 In addition to oil recovery capacity, the plan shall, as appropriate, identify sufficient quantity of containment boom available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, to arrive within the required response times for oil collection and containment and for protection of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments. For further description of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, see Appendices I, II, and III to DOC/NOAA's "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments" (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability) and the applicable ACP. Although 40 CFR part 112 does not set required quantities of boom for oil collection and containment, the response plan shall identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of the quantity of boom identified in the plan for this purpose.

4.6 The plan must indicate the availability of temporary storage capacity to meet section 12.2 of this appendix. If available storage capacity is insufficient to meet this level, then the effective daily recovery capacity must be derated (downgraded) to the limits of the available storage capacity.

4.7 The following is an example of a medium discharge volume planning calculation for equipment identification in a higher volume port area: The facility's largest aboveground storage tank volume is 840,000 gallons. Ten percent of this capacity is 84,000 gallons. Because 10 percent of the facility's largest tank, or 84,000 gallons, is greater than 36,000 gallons, 36,000 gallons is used as the planning volume. The effective daily recovery capacity is 50 percent of the planning volume, or 18,000 gallons per day. The ability of oil recovery devices to meet this capacity must be calculated using the procedures in section 6 of this appendix. Temporary storage capacity available on-scene must equal twice the daily recovery capacity as indicated in section 12.2 of this appendix, or 36,000 gallons per day. This is the information the facility owner or operator must use to identify and ensure the availability of the required response resources, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2. The facility owner shall also identify how much boom is available for use.

5.1 A facility owner or operator shall identify and ensure the availability of, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, sufficient response resources to respond to the worst case discharge of oil to the maximum extent practicable. Sections 7 and 10 of this appendix describe the method to determine the necessary response resources. Worksheets are provided as Attachments E-1 and E-2 at the end of this appendix to simplify the procedures involved in calculating the planning volume for response resources for the worst case discharge.

5.2 Complexes that are regulated by EPA and the USCG must also consider planning for the worst case discharge at the transportation-related portion of the facility. The USCG requires that transportation-related facility owners or operators use a different calculation for the worst case discharge in the revisions to 33 CFR part 154. Owners or operators of complex facilities that are regulated by EPA and the USCG must compare both calculations of worst case discharge derived by EPA and the USCG and plan for whichever volume is greater.

5.3 Oil discharge response resources identified in the response plan and available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, to meet the applicable worst case discharge planning volume must be located such that they are capable of arriving at the scene of a discharge within the times specified for the applicable response tier listed as follows
