
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### i.e.,

5.7 In addition to oil spill recovery devices, a facility owner or operator shall identify sufficient quantities of boom that are available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, to arrive on-scene within the specified response times for oil containment and collection. The specific quantity of boom required for collection and containment will depend on the facility-specific information and response strategies employed. A facility owner or operator shall, as appropriate, also identify sufficient quantities of oil containment boom to protect fish and wildlife and sensitive environments. For further description of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, see Appendices I, II, and III to DOC/NOAA's "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments" (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability), and the applicable ACP. Refer to this guidance document for the number of days and geographic areas (operating environments) specified in Table 2 and Table 6 of this appendix.

5.8 A facility owner or operator shall also identify, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of an oil spill removal organization(s) (as described in § 112.2) capable of responding to a shoreline cleanup operation involving the calculated volume of oil and emulsified oil that might impact the affected shoreline. The volume of oil that shall, as appropriate, be planned for is calculated through the application of factors contained in Tables 2, 3, 6, and 7 of this appendix. The volume calculated from these tables is intended to assist the facility owner or operator to identify an oil spill removal organization with sufficient resources and expertise.

6.1 Oil recovery devices identified by a facility owner or operator must be identified by the manufacturer, model, and effective daily recovery capacity. These capacities must be used to determine whether there is sufficient capacity to meet the applicable planning criteria for a small discharge, a medium discharge, and a worst case discharge to the maximum extent practicable.

6.2 To determine the effective daily recovery capacity of oil recovery devices, the formula listed in section 6.2.1 of this appendix shall be used. This formula considers potential limitations due to available daylight, weather, sea state, and percentage of emulsified oil in the recovered material. The RA may assign a lower efficiency factor to equipment listed in a response plan if it is determined that such a reduction is warranted.

6.2.1 The following formula shall be used to calculate the effective daily recovery capacity:

6.2.2 For those devices in which the pump limits the throughput of liquid, throughput rate shall be calculated using the pump capacity.

6.2.3 For belt or moptype devices, the throughput rate shall be calculated using the speed of the belt or mop through the device, assumed thickness of oil adhering to or collected by the device, and surface area of the belt or mop. For purposes of this calculation, the assumed thickness of oil will beinch.

6.2.4 Facility owners or operators that include oil recovery devices whose throughput is not measurable using a pump capacity or belt/mop speed may provide information to support an alternative method of calculation. This information must be submitted following the procedures in section 6.3.2 of this appendix.

6.3 As an alternative to section 6.2 of this appendix, a facility owner or operator may submit adequate evidence that a different effective daily recovery capacity should be applied for a specific oil recovery device. Adequate evidence is actual verified performance data in discharge conditions or tests using American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) Standard F 631-99, F 808-83 (1999), or an equivalent test approved by EPA as deemed appropriate (see Appendix E to this part, section 13, for general availability of documents).

6.3.1 The following formula must be used to calculate the effective daily recovery capacity under this alternative:

6.3.2 A facility owner or operator submitting a response plan shall provide data that supports the effective daily recovery capacities for the oil recovery devices listed. The following is an example of these calculations:

(1) A weir skimmer identified in a response plan has a manufacturer's rated throughput at the pump of 267 gallons per minute (gpm).

(2) After testing using ASTM procedures, the skimmer's oil recovery rate is determined to be 220 gpm. The facility owner or operator identifies sufficient resources available to support operations for 12 hours per day.

(3) The facility owner or operator will be able to use the higher capacity if sufficient temporary oil storage capacity is available. Determination of alternative efficiency factors under section 6.2 of this appendix or the acceptability of an alternative effective daily recovery capacity under section 6.3 of this appendix will be made by the Regional Administrator as deemed appropriate.

7.1 A facility owner or operator shall plan for a response to the facility's worst case discharge. The planning for on-water oil recovery must take into account a loss of some oil to the environment due to evaporative and natural dissipation, potential increases in volume due to emulsification, and the potential for deposition of oil on the shoreline. The procedures for non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils are discussed in section 7.7 of this appendix.

7.2 The following procedures must be used by a facility owner or operator in determining the required on-water oil recovery capacity:

7.2.1 The following must be determined: the worst case discharge volume of oil in the facility; the appropriate group(s) for the types of oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility [persistent (Groups 2, 3, 4, 5) or non-persistent (Group 1)]; and the facility's specific operating area. See sections 1.2.3 and 1.2.8 of this appendix for the definitions of non-persistent and persistent oils, respectively. Facilities that handle, store, or transport oil from different oil groups must calculate each group separately, unless the oil group constitutes 10 percent or less by volume of the facility's total oil storage capacity. This information is to be used with Table 2 of this appendix to determine the percentages of the total volume to be used for removal capacity planning. Table 2 of this appendix divides the volume into three categories: oil lost to the environment; oil deposited on the shoreline; and oil available for on-water recovery.

7.2.2 The on-water oil recovery volume shall, as appropriate, be adjusted using the appropriate emulsification factor found in Table 3 of this appendix. Facilities that handle, store, or transport oil from different petroleum groups must compare the on-water recovery volume for each oil group (unless the oil group constitutes 10 percent or less by volume of the facility's total storage capacity) and use the calculation that results in the largest on-water oil recovery volume to plan for the amount of response resources for a worst case discharge.

7.2.3 The adjusted volume is multiplied by the on-water oil recovery resource mobilization factor found in Table 4 of this appendix from the appropriate operating area and response tier to determine the total on-water oil recovery capacity in barrels per day that must be identified or contracted to arrive on-scene within the applicable time for each response tier. Three tiers are specified. For higher volume port areas, the contracted tiers of resources must be located such that they are capable of arriving on-scene within 6 hours for Tier 1, 30 hours for Tier 2, and 54 hours for Tier 3 of the discovery of an oil discharge. For all other rivers and canals, inland, nearshore areas, and the Great Lakes, these tiers are 12, 36, and 60 hours.

7.2.4 The resulting on-water oil recovery capacity in barrels per day for each tier is used to identify response resources necessary to sustain operations in the applicable operating area. The equipment shall be capable of sustaining operations for the time period specified in Table 2 of this appendix. The facility owner or operator shall identify and ensure the availability, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, of sufficient oil spill recovery devices to provide the effective daily oil recovery capacity required. If the required capacity exceeds the applicable cap specified in Table 5 of this appendix, then a facility owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, only for the quantity of resources required to meet the cap, but shall identify sources of additional resources as indicated in section 5.4 of this appendix. The owner or operator of a facility whose planning volume exceeded the cap in 1993 must make arrangements to identify and ensure the availability, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, for additional capacity to be under contract by 1998 or 2003, as appropriate. For a facility that handles multiple groups of oil, the required effective daily recovery capacity for each oil group is calculated before applying the cap. The oil group calculation resulting in the largest on-water recovery volume must be used to plan for the amount of response resources for a worst case discharge, unless the oil group comprises 10 percent or less by volume of the facility's total oil storage capacity.

7.3 The procedures discussed in sections 7.3.1-7.3.3 of this appendix must be used to calculate the planning volume for identifying shoreline cleanup capacity (for Group 1 through Group 4 oils).
