
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### Vegetable oil

1.2.9means a non-petroleum oil or fat of vegetable origin, including but not limited to oils and fats derived from plant seeds, nuts, fruits, and kernels. Vegetable oils are further classified based on specific gravity as follows:

(1) Group A-specific gravity less than 0.8.

(2) Group B-specific gravity equal to or greater than 0.8 and less than 1.0.

(3) Group C-specific gravity equal to or greater than 1.0.

1.2.10 Other definitions are included in ยง 112.2, section 1.1 of appendix C, and section 3.0 of appendix F.

2.1 All equipment identified in a response plan must be designed to operate in the conditions expected in the facility's geographic area (i.e., operating environment). These conditions vary widely based on location and season. Therefore, it is difficult to identify a single stockpile of response equipment that will function effectively in each geographic location (i.e., operating area).

2.2 Facilities handling, storing, or transporting oil in more than one operating environment as indicated in Table 1 of this appendix must identify equipment capable of successfully functioning in each operating environment.

2.3 When identifying equipment for the response plan (based on the use of this appendix), a facility owner or operator must consider the inherent limitations of the operability of equipment components and response systems. The criteria in Table 1 of this appendix shall be used to evaluate the operability in a given environment. These criteria reflect the general conditions in certain operating environments.

2.3.1 The Regional Administrator may require documentation that the boom identified in a facility response plan meets the criteria in Table 1 of this appendix. Absent acceptable documentation, the Regional Administrator may require that the boom be tested to demonstrate that it meets the criteria in Table 1 of this appendix. Testing must be in accordance with ASTM F 715, ASTM F 989, or other tests approved by EPA as deemed appropriate (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for general availability of documents).

2.4 Table 1 of this appendix lists criteria for oil recovery devices and boom. All other equipment necessary to sustain or support response operations in an operating environment must be designed to function in the same conditions. For example, boats that deploy or support skimmers or boom must be capable of being safely operated in the significant wave heights listed for the applicable operating environment.

2.5 A facility owner or operator shall refer to the applicable Area Contingency Plan (ACP), where available, to determine if ice, debris, and weather-related visibility are significant factors to evaluate the operability of equipment. The ACP may also identify the average temperature ranges expected in the facility's operating area. All equipment identified in a response plan must be designed to operate within those conditions or ranges.

2.6 This appendix provides information on response resource mobilization and response times. The distance of the facility from the storage location of the response resources must be used to determine whether the resources can arrive on-scene within the stated time. A facility owner or operator shall include the time for notification, mobilization, and travel of resources identified to meet the medium and Tier 1 worst case discharge requirements identified in sections 4.3 and 9.3 of this appendix (for medium discharges) and section 5.3 of this appendix (for worst case discharges). The facility owner or operator must plan for notification and mobilization of Tier 2 and 3 response resources as necessary to meet the requirements for arrival on-scene in accordance with section 5.3 of this appendix. An on-water speed of 5 knots and a land speed of 35 miles per hour is assumed, unless the facility owner or operator can demonstrate otherwise.

2.7 In identifying equipment, the facility owner or operator shall list the storage location, quantity, and manufacturer's make and model. For oil recovery devices, the effective daily recovery capacity, as determined using section 6 of this appendix, must be included. For boom, the overall boom height (draft and freeboard) shall be included. A facility owner or operator is responsible for ensuring that the identified boom has compatible connectors.

3.1 A facility owner or operator shall identify sufficient response resources available, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 112.2, to respond to a small discharge. A small discharge is defined as any discharge volume less than or equal to 2,100 gallons, but not to exceed the calculated worst case discharge. The equipment must be designed to function in the operating environment at the point of expected use.

3.2 Complexes that are regulated by EPA and the United States Coast Guard (USCG) must also consider planning quantities for the transportation-related transfer portion of the facility.
