
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### i.e.,

The three levels of response tiers apply to the amount of time in which facility owners or operators must plan for response resources to arrive at the scene of a discharge to respond to the worst case discharge planning volume. For example, at a worst case discharge in an inland area, the first tier of response resources (that amount of on-water and shoreline cleanup capacity necessary to respond to the fraction of the worst case discharge as indicated through the series of steps described in sections 7.2 and 7.3 or sections 10.2 and 10.3 of this appendix) would arrive at the scene of the discharge within 12 hours; the second tier of response resources would arrive within 36 hours; and the third tier of response resources would arrive within 60 hours.

5.4 The effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices identified in the response plan must be determined using the criteria in section 6 of this appendix. A facility owner or operator shall identify the storage locations of all response resources used for each tier. The owner or operator of a facility whose required daily recovery capacity exceeds the applicable contracting caps in Table 5 of this appendix shall, as appropriate, identify sources of additional equipment, their location, and the arrangements made to obtain this equipment during a response. The owner or operator of a facility whose calculated planning volume exceeds the applicable contracting caps in Table 5 of this appendix shall, as appropriate, identify sources of additional equipment equal to twice the cap listed in Tier 3 or the amount necessary to reach the calculated planning volume, whichever is lower. The resources identified above the cap shall be capable of arriving on-scene not later than the Tier 3 response times in section 5.3 of this appendix. No contract is required. While general listings of available response equipment may be used to identify additional sources (i.e., "public" resources vs. "private" resources), the response plan shall identify the specific sources, locations, and quantities of equipment that a facility owner or operator has considered in his or her planning. When listing USCG-classified oil spill removal organization(s) that have sufficient removal capacity to recover the volume above the response capacity cap for the specific facility, as specified in Table 5 of this appendix, it is not necessary to list specific quantities of equipment.

5.5 A facility owner or operator shall identify the availability of temporary storage capacity to meet section 12.2 of this appendix. If available storage capacity is insufficient, then the effective daily recovery capacity must be derated (downgraded) to the limits of the available storage capacity.

5.6 When selecting response resources necessary to meet the response plan requirements, the facility owner or operator shall, as appropriate, ensure that a portion of those resources is capable of being used in close-to-shore response activities in shallow water. For any EPA-regulated facility that is required to plan for response in shallow water, at least 20 percent of the on-water response equipment identified for the applicable operating area shall, as appropriate, be capable of operating in water of 6 feet or less depth.
