
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### i.e.

7.3.1 The following must be determined: the worst case discharge volume of oil for the facility; the appropriate group(s) for the types of oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility [persistent (Groups 2, 3, or 4) or non-persistent (Group 1)]; and the geographic area(s) in which the facility operates (, operating areas). For a facility handling, storing, or transporting oil from different groups, each group must be calculated separately. Using this information, Table 2 of this appendix must be used to determine the percentages of the total volume to be used for shoreline cleanup resource planning.

7.3.2 The shoreline cleanup planning volume must be adjusted to reflect an emulsification factor using the same procedure as described in section 7.2.2 of this appendix.

7.3.3 The resulting volume shall be used to identify an oil spill removal organization with the appropriate shoreline cleanup capability.

7.4 A response plan must identify response resources with fire fighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group 1 through Group 4 oils that does not have adequate fire fighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local fire fighting resources must identify adequate fire fighting resources. The facility owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 112.2, the availability of these resources. The response plan must also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for Group 1 through Group 4 oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained fire fighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to a worst case scenario. The individual may be the qualified individual identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

7.5 The following is an example of the procedure described above in sections 7.2 and 7.3 of this appendix: A facility with a 270,000 barrel (11.3 million gallons) capacity for #6 oil (specific gravity 0.96) is located in a higher volume port area. The facility is on a peninsula and has docks on both the ocean and bay sides. The facility has four aboveground oil storage tanks with a combined total capacity of 80,000 barrels (3.36 million gallons) and no secondary containment. The remaining facility tanks are inside secondary containment structures. The largest aboveground oil storage tank (90,000 barrels or 3.78 million gallons) has its own secondary containment. Two 50,000 barrel (2.1 million gallon) tanks (that are not connected by a manifold) are within a common secondary containment tank area, which is capable of holding 100,000 barrels (4.2 million gallons) plus sufficient freeboard.

7.5.1 The worst case discharge for the facility is calculated by adding the capacity of all aboveground oil storage tanks without secondary containment (80,000 barrels) plus the capacity of the largest aboveground oil storage tank inside secondary containment. The resulting worst case discharge volume is 170,000 barrels or 7.14 million gallons.

7.5.2 Because the requirements for Tiers 1, 2, and 3 for inland and nearshore exceed the caps identified in Table 5 of this appendix, the facility owner will contract for a response to 10,000 barrels per day (bpd) for Tier 1, 20,000 bpd for Tier 2, and 40,000 bpd for Tier 3. Resources for the remaining 7,850 bpd for Tier 1, 9,750 bpd for Tier 2, and 7,600 bpd for Tier 3 shall be identified but need not be contracted for in advance. The facility owner or operator shall, as appropriate, also identify or contract for quantities of boom identified in their response plan for the protection of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments within the area potentially impacted by a worst case discharge from the facility. For further description of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, see Appendices I, II, and III to DOC/NOAA's "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments," (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability) and the applicable ACP. Attachment C-III to Appendix C provides a method for calculating a planning distance to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments and public drinking water intakes that may be impacted in the event of a worst case discharge.

7.6 The procedures discussed in sections 7.6.1-7.6.3 of this appendix must be used to determine appropriate response resources for facilities with Group 5 oils.

7.6.1 The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group 5 oils shall, as appropriate, identify the response resources available by contract or other approved means, as described in ยง 112.2. The equipment identified in a response plan shall, as appropriate, include:

(1) Sonar, sampling equipment, or other methods for locating the oil on the bottom or suspended in the water column;

(2) Containment boom, sorbent boom, silt curtains, or other methods for containing the oil that may remain floating on the surface or to reduce spreading on the bottom;

(3) Dredges, pumps, or other equipment necessary to recover oil from the bottom and shoreline;

(4) Equipment necessary to assess the impact of such discharges; and

(5) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of oil handled, stored,, or transported.

7.6.2 Response resources identified in a response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group 5 oils under section 7.6.1 of this appendix shall be capable of being deployed (on site) within 24 hours of discovery of a discharge to the area where the facility is operating.

7.6.3 A response plan must identify response resources with fire fighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group 5 oils that does not have adequate fire fighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local fire fighting resources must identify adequate fire fighting resources. The facility owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 112.2, the availability of these resources. The response plan shall also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for Group 5 oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained fire fighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to respond to a worst case discharge. The individual may be the qualified individual identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.
