
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### i.e.,

10.7.2 An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats and vegetable oils must ensure that any equipment identified in a response plan is capable of operating in the geographic area(s) (operating environments) in which the facility operates using the criteria in Table 1 of this appendix. When evaluating the operability of equipment, the facility owner or operator must consider limitations that are identified in the appropriate ACPs, including:

(1) Ice conditions;

(2) Debris;

(3) Temperature ranges; and

(4) Weather-related visibility.

10.7.3. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats and vegetable oils must identify the response resources that are available by contract or other approved means, as described in ยง 112.2. The equipment described in the response plan shall, as appropriate, include:

(1) Containment boom, sorbent boom, or other methods for containing oil floating on the surface or to protect shorelines from impact;

(2) Oil recovery devices appropriate for the type of animal fat or vegetable oil carried; and

(3) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of oil carried.

10.7.4 Response resources identified in a response plan according to section 10.7.3 of this appendix must be capable of commencing an effective on-scene response within the applicable tier response times in section 5.3 of this appendix.

10.7.5 A response plan must identify response resources with fire fighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats and vegetable oils that does not have adequate fire fighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local fire fighting resources must identify adequate fire fighting resources. The owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 112.2, the availability of these resources. The response plan shall also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for animal fat and vegetable oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained fire fighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to respond to a worst case discharge. The individual may be the qualified individual identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

11.1 For chemical agents to be identified in a response plan, they must be on the NCP Product Schedule that is maintained by EPA. (Some States have a list of approved dispersants for use within State waters. Not all of these State-approved dispersants are listed on the NCP Product Schedule.)

11.2 Identification of chemical agents in the plan does not imply that their use will be authorized. Actual authorization will be governed by the provisions of the NCP and the applicable ACP.

12.1 A facility owner or operator shall identify sufficient response resources available, by contract or other approved means as described in ยง 112.2, to respond to a medium discharge of animal fats or vegetables oils for that facility. This will require response resources capable of containing and collecting up to 36,000 gallons of oil or 10 percent of the worst case discharge, whichever is less. All equipment identified must be designed to operate in the applicable operating environment specified in Table 1 of this appendix.

12.2 A facility owner or operator shall evaluate the availability of adequate temporary storage capacity to sustain the effective daily recovery capacities from equipment identified in the plan. Because of the inefficiencies of oil spill recovery devices, response plans must identify daily storage capacity equivalent to twice the effective daily recovery capacity required on-scene. This temporary storage capacity may be reduced if a facility owner or operator can demonstrate by waste stream analysis that the efficiencies of the oil recovery devices, ability to decant waste, or the availability of alternative temporary storage or disposal locations will reduce the overall volume of oily material storage.

12.3 A facility owner or operator shall ensure that response planning includes the capability to arrange for disposal of recovered oil products. Specific disposal procedures will be addressed in the applicable ACP.

13.1 All materials listed in this section are part of EPA's rulemaking docket and are located in the Superfund Docket, 1235 Jefferson Davis Highway, Crystal Gateway 1, Arlington, Virginia 22202, Suite 105 (Docket Numbers SPCC-2P, SPCC-3P, and SPCC-9P). The docket is available for inspection between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding Federal holidays.

Appointments to review the docket can be made by calling 703-603-9232. Docket hours are subject to change. As provided in 40 CFR part 2, a reasonable fee may be charged for copying services.

13.2 The docket will mail copies of materials to requestors who are outside the Washington, DC metropolitan area. Materials may be available from other sources, as noted in this section. As provided in 40 CFR part 2, a reasonable fee may be charged for copying services. The RCRA/Superfund Hotline at 800-424-9346 may also provide additional information on where to obtain documents. To contact the RCRA/Superfund Hotline in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, dial 703-412-9810. The Telecommunications Device for the Deaf (TDD) Hotline number is 800-553-7672, or, in the Washington, DC metropolitan area, 703-412-3323.

(1) National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP). The PREP draft guidelines are available from United States Coast Guard Headquarters (G-MEP-4), 2100 Second Street, SW., Washington, DC 20593. (See 58 FR 53990-91, October 19, 1993, Notice of Availability of PREP Guidelines).

(2) "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments (published in theby DOC/NOAA at 59 FR 14713-22, March 29, 1994.). The guidance is available in the Superfund Docket (see sections 13.1 and 13.2 of this appendix).

(3) ASTM Standards. ASTM F 715, ASTM F 989, ASTM F 631-99, ASTM F 808-83 (1999). The ASTM standards are available from the American Society for Testing and Materials, 100 Barr Harbor Drive, West Conshohocken, PA 19428-2959.

(4) Response Plans for Marine Transportation-Related Facilities, Interim Final Rule. Published by USCG, DOT at 58 FR 7330-76, February 5, 1993.
