
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix E to Part 112 - Determination and Evaluation of Required Response Resources for Facility Response Plans
###### i.e.,

7.7.2 An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils must ensure that any equipment identified in a response plan is capable of operating in the conditions expected in the geographic area(s) (operating environments) in which the facility operates using the criteria in Table 1 of this appendix. When evaluating the operability of equipment, the facility owner or operator must consider limitations that are identified in the appropriate ACPs, including:

(1) Ice conditions;

(2) Debris;

(3) Temperature ranges; and

(4) Weather-related visibility.

7.7.3 The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils must identify the response resources that are available by contract or other approved means, as described in § 112.2. The equipment described in the response plan shall, as appropriate, include:

(1) Containment boom, sorbent boom, or other methods for containing oil floating on the surface or to protect shorelines from impact;

(2) Oil recovery devices appropriate for the type of non-petroleum oil carried; and

(3) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of oil carried.

7.7.4 Response resources identified in a response plan according to section 7.7.3 of this appendix must be capable of commencing an effective on-scene response within the applicable tier response times in section 5.3 of this appendix.

7.7.5 A response plan must identify response resources with fire fighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports non-petroleum oils other than animal fats and vegetable oils that does not have adequate fire fighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local fire fighting resources must identify adequate fire fighting resources. The owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of these resources. The response plan must also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for fires of these oils. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained fire fighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to a worst case scenario. The individual may be the qualified individual identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

8.1 A facility owner or operator shall identify sufficient response resources available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, to respond to a small discharge of animal fats or vegetable oils. A small discharge is defined as any discharge volume less than or equal to 2,100 gallons, but not to exceed the calculated worst case discharge. The equipment must be designed to function in the operating environment at the point of expected use.

8.2 Complexes that are regulated by EPA and the USCG must also consider planning quantities for the marine transportation-related portion of the facility.

8.2.1 The USCG planning level that corresponds to EPA's "small discharge" is termed "the average most probable discharge." A USCG rule found at 33 CFR 154.1020 defines "the average most probable discharge" as the lesser of 50 barrels (2,100 gallons) or 1 percent of the volume of the worst case discharge. Owners or operators of complexes that handle, store, or transport animal fats and vegetable oils must compare oil discharge volumes for a small discharge and an average most probable discharge, and plan for whichever quantity is greater.

8.3 The response resources shall, as appropriate, include:

8.3.1 One thousand feet of containment boom (or, for complexes with marine transfer components, 1,000 feet of containment boom or two times the length of the largest vessel that regularly conducts oil transfers to or from the facility, whichever is greater), and a means of deploying it within 1 hour of the discovery of a discharge;

8.3.2 Oil recovery devices with an effective daily recovery capacity equal to the amount of oil discharged in a small discharge or greater which is available at the facility within 2 hours of the detection of a discharge; and

8.3.3 Oil storage capacity for recovered oily material indicated in section 12.2 of this appendix.

9.1 A facility owner or operator shall identify sufficient response resources available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, to respond to a medium discharge of animal fats or vegetable oils for that facility. This will require response resources capable of containing and collecting up to 36,000 gallons of oil or 10 percent of the worst case discharge, whichever is less. All equipment identified must be designed to operate in the applicable operating environment specified in Table 1 of this appendix.

9.2 Complexes that are regulated by EPA and the USCG must also consider planning quantities for the transportation-related transfer portion of the facility. Owners or operators of complexes that handle, store, or transport animal fats or vegetable oils must plan for oil discharge volumes for a medium discharge. For non-petroleum oils, there is no USCG planning level that directly corresponds to EPA's "medium discharge." Although the USCG does not have planning requirements for medium discharges, they do have requirements (at 33 CFR 154.545) to identify equipment to contain oil resulting from an operational discharge.

9.3 Oil recovery devices identified to meet the applicable medium discharge volume planning criteria must be located such that they are capable of arriving on-scene within 6 hours in higher volume port areas and the Great Lakes and within 12 hours in all other areas. Higher volume port areas and Great Lakes areas are defined in section 1.1 of appendix C to this part.

9.4 Because rapid control, containment, and removal of oil are critical to reduce discharge impact, the owner or operator must determine response resources using an effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices equal to 50 percent of the planning volume applicable for the facility as determined in section 9.1 of this appendix. The effective daily recovery capacity for oil recovery devices identified in the plan must be determined using the criteria in section 6 of this appendix.

9.5 In addition to oil recovery capacity, the plan shall, as appropriate, identify sufficient quantity of containment boom available, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, to arrive within the required response times for oil collection and containment and for protection of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments. For further description of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, see Appendices I, II, and III to DOC/NOAA's "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments" (59 FR 14713-22, March 29, 1994) and the applicable ACP. Although 40 CFR part 112 does not set required quantities of boom for oil collection and containment, the response plan shall identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of the quantity of boom identified in the plan for this purpose.

9.6 The plan must indicate the availability of temporary storage capacity to meet section 12.2 of this appendix. If available storage capacity is insufficient to meet this level, then the effective daily recovery capacity must be derated (downgraded) to the limits of the available storage capacity.

9.7 The following is an example of a medium discharge volume planning calculation for equipment identification in a higher volume port area:

The facility's largest aboveground storage tank volume is 840,000 gallons. Ten percent of this capacity is 84,000 gallons. Because 10 percent of the facility's largest tank, or 84,000 gallons, is greater than 36,000 gallons, 36,000 gallons is used as the planning volume. The effective daily recovery capacity is 50 percent of the planning volume, or 18,000 gallons per day. The ability of oil recovery devices to meet this capacity must be calculated using the procedures in section 6 of this appendix. Temporary storage capacity available on-scene must equal twice the daily recovery capacity as indicated in section 12.2 of this appendix, or 36,000 gallons per day. This is the information the facility owner or operator must use to identify and ensure the availability of the required response resources, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2. The facility owner shall also identify how much boom is available for use.

10.1 A facility owner or operator shall plan for a response to the facility's worst case discharge. The planning for on-water oil recovery must take into account a loss of some oil to the environment due to physical, chemical, and biological processes, potential increases in volume due to emulsification, and the potential for deposition of oil on the shoreline or on sediments. The response planning procedures for animal fats and vegetable oils are discussed in section 10.7 of this appendix. You may use alternate response planning procedures for animal fats and vegetable oils if those procedures result in environmental protection equivalent to that provided by the procedures in section 10.7 of this appendix.

10.2 The following procedures must be used by a facility owner or operator in determining the required on-water oil recovery capacity:

10.2.1 The following must be determined: the worst case discharge volume of oil in the facility; the appropriate group(s) for the types of oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility (Groups A, B, C); and the facility's specific operating area. See sections 1.2.1 and 1.2.9 of this appendix for the definitions of animal fats and vegetable oils and groups thereof. Facilities that handle, store, or transport oil from different oil groups must calculate each group separately, unless the oil group constitutes 10 percent or less by volume of the facility's total oil storage capacity. This information is to be used with Table 6 of this appendix to determine the percentages of the total volume to be used for removal capacity planning. Table 6 of this appendix divides the volume into three categories: oil lost to the environment; oil deposited on the shoreline; and oil available for on-water recovery.

10.2.2 The on-water oil recovery volume shall, as appropriate, be adjusted using the appropriate emulsification factor found in Table 7 of this appendix. Facilities that handle, store, or transport oil from different groups must compare the on-water recovery volume for each oil group (unless the oil group constitutes 10 percent or less by volume of the facility's total storage capacity) and use the calculation that results in the largest on-water oil recovery volume to plan for the amount of response resources for a worst case discharge.

10.2.3 The adjusted volume is multiplied by the on-water oil recovery resource mobilization factor found in Table 4 of this appendix from the appropriate operating area and response tier to determine the total on-water oil recovery capacity in barrels per day that must be identified or contracted to arrive on-scene within the applicable time for each response tier. Three tiers are specified. For higher volume port areas, the contracted tiers of resources must be located such that they are capable of arriving on-scene within 6 hours for Tier 1, 30 hours for Tier 2, and 54 hours for Tier 3 of the discovery of a discharge. For all other rivers and canals, inland, nearshore areas, and the Great Lakes, these tiers are 12, 36, and 60 hours.

10.2.4 The resulting on-water oil recovery capacity in barrels per day for each tier is used to identify response resources necessary to sustain operations in the applicable operating area. The equipment shall be capable of sustaining operations for the time period specified in Table 6 of this appendix. The facility owner or operator shall identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of sufficient oil spill recovery devices to provide the effective daily oil recovery capacity required. If the required capacity exceeds the applicable cap specified in Table 5 of this appendix, then a facility owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, only for the quantity of resources required to meet the cap, but shall identify sources of additional resources as indicated in section 5.4 of this appendix. The owner or operator of a facility whose planning volume exceeded the cap in 1998 must make arrangements to identify and ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of additional capacity to be under contract by 2003, as appropriate. For a facility that handles multiple groups of oil, the required effective daily recovery capacity for each oil group is calculated before applying the cap. The oil group calculation resulting in the largest on-water recovery volume must be used to plan for the amount of response resources for a worst case discharge, unless the oil group comprises 10 percent or less by volume of the facility's oil storage capacity.

10.3 The procedures discussed in sections 10.3.1 through 10.3.3 of this appendix must be used to calculate the planning volume for identifying shoreline cleanup capacity (for Groups A and B oils).

10.3.1 The following must be determined: the worst case discharge volume of oil for the facility; the appropriate group(s) for the types of oil handled, stored, or transported at the facility (Groups A or B); and the geographic area(s) in which the facility operates (i.e., operating areas). For a facility handling, storing, or transporting oil from different groups, each group must be calculated separately. Using this information, Table 6 of this appendix must be used to determine the percentages of the total volume to be used for shoreline cleanup resource planning.

10.3.2 The shoreline cleanup planning volume must be adjusted to reflect an emulsification factor using the same procedure as described in section 10.2.2 of this appendix.

10.3.3 The resulting volume shall be used to identify an oil spill removal organization with the appropriate shoreline cleanup capability.

10.4 A response plan must identify response resources with fire fighting capability appropriate for the risk of fire and explosion at the facility from the discharge or threat of discharge of oil. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group A or B oils that does not have adequate fire fighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local fire fighting resources must identify adequate fire fighting resources. The facility owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of these resources. The response plan must also identify an individual to work with the fire department for Group A or B oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained fire fighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to a worst case scenario. The individual may be the qualified individual identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

10.5 The following is an example of the procedure described in sections 10.2 and 10.3 of this appendix. A facility with a 37.04 million gallon (881,904 barrel) capacity of several types of vegetable oils is located in the Inland Operating Area. The vegetable oil with the highest specific gravity stored at the facility is soybean oil (specific gravity 0.922, Group B vegetable oil). The facility has ten aboveground oil storage tanks with a combined total capacity of 18 million gallons (428,571 barrels) and without secondary containment. The remaining facility tanks are inside secondary containment structures. The largest aboveground oil storage tank (3 million gallons or 71,428 barrels) has its own secondary containment. Two 2.1 million gallon (50,000 barrel) tanks (that are not connected by a manifold) are within a common secondary containment tank area, which is capable of holding 4.2 million gallons (100,000 barrels) plus sufficient freeboard.

10.5.1 The worst case discharge for the facility is calculated by adding the capacity of all aboveground vegetable oil storage tanks without secondary containment (18.0 million gallons) plus the capacity of the largest aboveground storage tank inside secondary containment (3.0 million gallons). The resulting worst case discharge is 21 million gallons or 500,000 barrels.

10.5.2 With a specific worst case discharge identified, the planning volume for on-water recovery can be identified as follows:

10.5.3 Because the requirements for On-Water Recovery Resources for Tiers 1, 2, and 3 for Inland Operating Area exceed the caps identified in Table 5 of this appendix, the facility owner will contract for a response of 12,500 barrels per day (bpd) for Tier 1, 25,000 bpd for Tier 2, and 50,000 bpd for Tier 3. Resources for the remaining 17,500 bpd for Tier 1, 25,000 bpd for Tier 2, and 30,000 bpd for Tier 3 shall be identified but need not be contracted for in advance.

10.5.4 With the specific worst case discharge identified, the planning volume of onshore recovery can be identified as follows:

10.5.5 The facility owner or operator shall, as appropriate, also identify or contract for quantities of boom identified in the response plan for the protection of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments within the area potentially impacted by a worst case discharge from the facility. For further description of fish and wildlife and sensitive environments, see Appendices I, II, and III to DOC/NOAA's "Guidance for Facility and Vessel Response Plans: Fish and Wildlife and Sensitive Environments," (see Appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability) and the applicable ACP. Attachment C-III to Appendix C provides a method for calculating a planning distance to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments and public drinking water intakes that may be adversely affected in the event of a worst case discharge.

10.6 The procedures discussed in sections 10.6.1 through 10.6.3 of this appendix must be used to determine appropriate response resources for facilities with Group C oils.

10.6.1 The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group C oils shall, as appropriate, identify the response resources available by contract or other approved means, as described in § 112.2. The equipment identified in a response plan shall, as appropriate, include:

(1) Sonar, sampling equipment, or other methods for locating the oil on the bottom or suspended in the water column;

(2) Containment boom, sorbent boom, silt curtains, or other methods for containing the oil that may remain floating on the surface or to reduce spreading on the bottom;

(3) Dredges, pumps, or other equipment necessary to recover oil from the bottom and shoreline;

(4) Equipment necessary to assess the impact of such discharges; and

(5) Other appropriate equipment necessary to respond to a discharge involving the type of oil handled, stored, or transported.

10.6.2 Response resources identified in a response plan for a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group C oils under section 10.6.1 of this appendix shall be capable of being deployed on scene within 24 hours of discovery of a discharge.

10.6.3 A response plan must identify response resources with fire fighting capability. The owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports Group C oils that does not have adequate fire fighting resources located at the facility or that cannot rely on sufficient local fire fighting resources must identify adequate fire fighting resources. The owner or operator shall ensure, by contract or other approved means as described in § 112.2, the availability of these resources. The response plan shall also identify an individual located at the facility to work with the fire department for Group C oil fires. This individual shall also verify that sufficient well-trained fire fighting resources are available within a reasonable response time to respond to a worst case discharge. The individual may be the qualified individual identified in the response plan or another appropriate individual located at the facility.

10.7 The procedures described in sections 10.7.1 through 10.7.5 of this appendix must be used to determine appropriate response plan development and evaluation criteria for facilities that handle, store, or transport animal fats and vegetable oils. Refer to section 11 of this appendix for information on the limitations on the use of chemical agents for inland and nearshore areas.

10.7.1 An owner or operator of a facility that handles, stores, or transports animal fats and vegetable oils must provide information in the response plan that identifies:

(1) Procedures and strategies for responding to a worst case discharge of animal fats and vegetable oils to the maximum extent practicable; and

(2) Sources of the equipment and supplies necessary to locate, recover, and mitigate such a discharge.
