
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix F to Part 112 - Facility-Specific Response Plan

(A) Owners or operators of facilities regulated under this part which pose a threat of substantial harm to the environment by discharging oil into or on navigable waters or adjoining shorelines are required to prepare and submit facility-specific response plans to EPA in accordance with the provisions in this appendix. This appendix further describes the required elements in ยง 112.20(h).

(B) Response plans must be sent to the appropriate EPA Regional office. Figure F-1 of this Appendix lists each EPA Regional office and the address where owners or operators must submit their response plans. Those facilities deemed by the Regional Administrator (RA) to pose a threat of significant and substantial harm to the environment will have their plans reviewed and approved by EPA. In certain cases, information required in the model response plan is similar to information currently maintained in the facility's Spill Prevention, Control, and Countermeasures (SPCC) Plan as required by 40 CFR 112.3. In these cases, owners or operators may reproduce the information and include a photocopy in the response plan.

(C) A complex may develop a single response plan with a set of core elements for all regulating agencies and separate sections for the non-transportation-related and transportation-related components, as described in ยง 112.20(h). Owners or operators of large facilities that handle, store, or transport oil at more than one geographically distinct location (e.g., oil storage areas at opposite ends of a single, continuous parcel of property) shall, as appropriate, develop separate sections of the response plan for each storage area.

Several sections of the response plan shall be co-located for easy access by response personnel during an actual emergency or oil discharge. This collection of sections shall be called the Emergency Response Action Plan. The Agency intends that the Action Plan contain only as much information as is necessary to combat the discharge and be arranged so response actions are not delayed. The Action Plan may be arranged in a number of ways. For example, the sections of the Emergency Response Action Plan may be photocopies or condensed versions of the forms included in the associated sections of the response plan. Each Emergency Response Action Plan section may be tabbed for quick reference. The Action Plan shall be maintained in the front of the same binder that contains the complete response plan or it shall be contained in a separate binder. In the latter case, both binders shall be kept together so that the entire plan can be accessed by the qualified individual and appropriate spill response personnel. The Emergency Response Action Plan shall be made up of the following sections:

The facility information form is designed to provide an overview of the site and a description of past activities at the facility. Much of the information required by this section may be obtained from the facility's existing SPCC Plan.
