
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix F to Part 112 - Facility-Specific Response Plan
###### i.e.,

(7) Weather or aquatic conditions (river flow);

(8) Available remediation equipment;

(9) Probability of a chain reaction of failures; and

(10) Direction of discharge pathway.

1.5.2.1 In this section, the owner or operator must identify the worst case discharge volume at the facility. Worksheets for production and non-production facility owners or operators to use when calculating worst case discharge are presented in appendix D to this part. When planning for the worst case discharge response, all of the aforementioned factors listed in the small and medium discharge section of the response plan shall be addressed.

1.5.2.2 For onshore storage facilities and production facilities, permanently manifolded oil storage tanks are defined as tanks that are designed, installed, and/or operated in such a manner that the multiple tanks function as one storage unit (i.e., multiple tank volumes are equalized). In this section of the response plan, owners or operators must provide evidence that oil storage tanks with common piping or piping systems are not operated as one unit. If such evidence is provided and is acceptable to the RA, the worst case discharge volume shall be based on the combined oil storage capacity of all manifold tanks or the oil storage capacity of the largest single oil storage tank within the secondary containment area, whichever is greater. For permanently manifolded oil storage tanks that function as one storage unit, the worst case discharge shall be based on the combined oil storage capacity of all manifolded tanks or the oil storage capacity of the largest single tank within a secondary containment area, whichever is greater. For purposes of the worst case discharge calculation, permanently manifolded oil storage tanks that are separated by internal divisions for each tank are considered to be single tanks and individual manifolded tank volumes are not combined.

In this section, the facility owner or operator shall provide a detailed description of the procedures and equipment used to detect discharges. A section on discharge detection by personnel and a discussion of automated discharge detection, if applicable, shall be included for both regular operations and after hours operations. In addition, the facility owner or operator shall discuss how the reliability of any automated system will be checked and how frequently the system will be inspected.

In this section, facility owners or operators shall describe the procedures and personnel that will detect any discharge of oil or release of a hazardous substance. A thorough discussion of facility inspections must be included. In addition, a description of initial response actions shall be addressed. This section shall reference section 1.3.1 of the response plan for emergency response information.

In this section, facility owners or operators must describe any automated discharge detection equipment that the facility has in place. This section shall include a discussion of overfill alarms, secondary containment sensors, etc. A discussion of the plans to verify an automated alarm and the actions to be taken once verified must also be included.

In this section, facility owners or operators must explain in detail how to implement the facility's emergency response plan by describing response actions to be carried out under the plan to ensure the safety of the facility and to mitigate or prevent discharges described in section 1.5 of the response plan. This section shall include the identification of response resources for small, medium, and worst case discharges; disposal plans; and containment and drainage planning. A list of those personnel who would be involved in the cleanup shall be identified. Procedures that the facility will use, where appropriate or necessary, to update their plan after an oil discharge event and the time frame to update the plan must be described.

1.7.1.1 Once the discharge scenarios have been identified in section 1.5 of the response plan, the facility owner or operator shall identify and describe implementation of the response actions. The facility owner or operator shall demonstrate accessibility to the proper response personnel and equipment to effectively respond to all of the identified discharge scenarios. The determination and demonstration of adequate response capability are presented in appendix E to this part. In addition, steps to expedite the cleanup of oil discharges must be discussed. At a minimum, the following items must be addressed:

(1) Emergency plans for spill response;

(2) Additional response training;

(3) Additional contracted help;

(4) Access to additional response equipment/experts; and

(5) Ability to implement the plan including response training and practice drills.

1.7.1.2A recommended form detailing immediate actions follows.

1.7.2.1 Facility owners or operators must describe how and where the facility intends to recover, reuse, decontaminate, or dispose of materials after a discharge has taken place. The appropriate permits required to transport or dispose of recovered materials according to local, State, and Federal requirements must be addressed. Materials that must be accounted for in the disposal plan, as appropriate, include:

(1) Recovered product;

(2) Contaminated soil;

(3) Contaminated equipment and materials, including drums, tank parts, valves, and shovels;

(4) Personnel protective equipment;

(5) Decontamination solutions;

(6) Adsorbents; and

(7) Spent chemicals.

1.7.2.2 These plans must be prepared in accordance with Federal (e.g., the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act [RCRA]), State, and local regulations, where applicable. A copy of the disposal plans from the facility's SPCC Plan may be inserted with this section, including any diagrams in those plans.

A proper plan to contain and control a discharge through drainage may limit the threat of harm to human health and the environment. This section shall describe how to contain and control a discharge through drainage, including:

(1) The available volume of containment (use the information presented in section 1.4.1 of the response plan);

(2) The route of drainage from oil storage and transfer areas;

(3) The construction materials used in drainage troughs;

(4) The type and number of valves and separators used in the drainage system;

(5) Sump pump capacities;

(6) The containment capacity of weirs and booms that might be used and their location (see section 1.3.2 of this appendix); and

(7) Other cleanup materials.

In addition, a facility owner or operator must meet the inspection and monitoring requirements for drainage contained in 40 CFR part 112, subparts A through C. A copy of the containment and drainage plans that are required in 40 CFR part 112, subparts A through C may be inserted in this section, including any diagrams in those plans.

The owner or operator must develop programs for facility response training and for drills/exercises according to the requirements of 40 CFR 112.21. Logs must be kept for facility drills/exercises, personnel response training, and spill prevention meetings. Much of the recordkeeping information required by this section is also contained in the SPCC Plan required by 40 CFR 112.3. These logs may be included in the facility response plan or kept as an annex to the facility response plan.

Under 40 CFR 112.7(e), you must include the written procedures and records of inspections for each facility in the SPCC Plan. You must include the inspection records for each container, secondary containment, and item of response equipment at the facility. You must cross-reference the records of inspections of each container and secondary containment required by 40 CFR 112.7(e) in the facility response plan. The inspection record of response equipment is a new requirement in this plan. Facility self-inspection requires two-steps: (1) a checklist of things to inspect; and (2) a method of recording the actual inspection and its findings. You must note the date of each inspection. You must keep facility response plan records for five years. You must keep SPCC records for three years.

The tank inspection checklist presented below has been included as guidance during inspections and monitoring. Similar requirements exist in 40 CFR part 112, subparts A through C. Duplicate information from the SPCC Plan may be photocopied and inserted in this section. The inspection checklist consists of the following items:

Using the Emergency Response Equipment List provided in section 1.3.2 of the response plan, describe each type of response equipment, checking for the following:

1. Inventory (item and quantity);

2. Storage location;

3. Accessibility (time to access and respond);

4. Operational status/condition;

5. Actual use/testing (last test date and frequency of testing); and

6. Shelf life (present age, expected replacement date).

Inspect the secondary containment (as described in sections 1.4.1 and 1.7.2 of the response plan), checking the following:

(A) CWA section 311(j)(5), as amended by OPA, requires the response plan to contain a description of facility drills/exercises. According to 40 CFR 112.21(c), the facility owner or operator shall develop a program of facility response drills/exercises, including evaluation procedures. Following the PREP guidelines (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability) would satisfy a facility's requirements for drills/exercises under this part. Alternately, under ยง 112.21(c), a facility owner or operator may develop a program that is not based on the PREP guidelines. Such a program is subject to approval by the Regional Administrator based on the description of the program provided in the response plan.

(B) The PREP Guidelines specify that the facility conduct internal and external drills/exercises. The internal exercises include: qualified individual notification drills, spill management team tabletop exercises, equipment deployment exercises, and unannounced exercises. External exercises include Area Exercises. Credit for an Area or Facility-specific Exercise will be given to the facility for an actual response to a discharge in the area if the plan was utilized for response to the discharge and the objectives of the Exercise were met and were properly evaluated, documented, and self-certified.

(C) Section 112.20(h)(8)(ii) requires the facility owner or operator to provide a description of the drill/exercise program to be carried out under the response plan. Qualified Individual Notification Drill and Spill Management Team Tabletop Drill logs shall be provided in sections 1.8.2.1 and 1.8.2.2, respectively. These logs may be included in the facility response plan or kept as an annex to the facility response plan. See section 1.3.3 of this appendix for Equipment Deployment Drill Logs.

Section 112.21(a) requires facility owners or operators to develop programs for facility response training. Facility owners or operators are required by ยง 112.20(h)(8)(iii) to provide a description of the response training program to be carried out under the response plan. A facility's training program can be based on the USCG's Training Elements for Oil Spill Response, to the extent applicable to facility operations, or another response training program acceptable to the RA. The training elements are available from the USCG Office of Response (G-MOR) at (202) 267-0518 or fax (202) 267-4085. Personnel response training logs and discharge prevention meeting logs shall be included in sections 1.8.3.1 and 1.8.3.2 of the response plan respectively. These logs may be included in the facility response plan or kept as an annex to the facility response plan.

The facility-specific response plan shall include the following diagrams. Additional diagrams that would aid in the development of response plan sections may also be included.

According to 40 CFR 112.7(g) facilities are required to maintain a certain level of security, as appropriate. In this section, a description of the facility security shall be provided and include, as appropriate:

A three-page form has been developed to be completed and submitted to the RA by owners or operators who are required to prepare and submit a facility-specific response plan. The cover sheet (Attachment F-1) must accompany the response plan to provide the Agency with basic information concerning the facility. This section will describe the Response Plan Cover Sheet and provide instructions for its completion.
