
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix F to Part 112 - Facility-Specific Response Plan
###### The Handbook of Chemical Hazard Analysis Procedures,,Hazardous Materials Emergency Planning Guide

This section requires the facility owner or operator to examine the facility's operations closely and to predict where discharges could occur. Hazard evaluation is a widely used industry practice that allows facility owners or operators to develop a complete understanding of potential hazards and the response actions necessary to address these hazards.prepared by the EPA, DOT, and the FEMA and the(NRT-1), prepared by the National Response Team are good references for conducting a hazard analysis. Hazard identification and evaluation will assist facility owners or operators in planning for potential discharges, thereby reducing the severity of discharge impacts that may occur in the future. The evaluation also may help the operator identify and correct potential sources of discharges. In addition, special hazards to workers and emergency response personnel's health and safety shall be evaluated, as well as the facility's oil spill history.

The Tank and Surface Impoundment (SI) forms, or their equivalent, that are part of this section must be completed according to the directions below. ("Surface Impoundment" means a facility or part of a facility which is a natural topographic depression, man-made excavation, or diked area formed primarily of earthen materials (although it may be lined with man-made materials), which is designed to hold an accumulation of liquid wastes or wastes containing free liquids, and which is not an injection well or a seepage facility.) Similar worksheets, or their equivalent, must be developed for any other type of storage containers.

(1) List each tank at the facility with a separate and distinct identifier. Begin aboveground tank identifiers with an "A" and belowground tank identifiers with a "B", or submit multiple sheets with the aboveground tanks and belowground tanks on separate sheets.

(2) Use gallons for the maximum capacity of a tank; and use square feet for the area.

(3) Using the appropriate identifiers and the following instructions, fill in the appropriate forms:

(a) Tank or SI number-Using the aforementioned identifiers (A or B) or multiple reporting sheets, identify each tank or SI at the facility that stores oil or hazardous materials.

(b) Substance Stored-For each tank or SI identified, record the material that is stored therein. If the tank or SI is used to store more than one material, list all of the stored materials.

(c) Quantity Stored-For each material stored in each tank or SI, report the average volume of material stored on any given day.

(d) Tank Type or Surface Area/Year-For each tank, report the type of tank (e.g., floating top), and the year the tank was originally installed. If the tank has been refabricated, the year that the latest refabrication was completed must be recorded in parentheses next to the year installed. For each SI, record the surface area of the impoundment and the year it went into service.

(e) Maximum Capacity-Record the operational maximum capacity for each tank and SI. If the maximum capacity varies with the season, record the upper and lower limits.

(f) Failure/Cause-Record the cause and date of any tank or SI failure which has resulted in a loss of tank or SI contents.

(4) Using the numbers from the tank and SI forms, label a schematic drawing of the facility. This drawing shall be identical to any schematic drawings included in the SPCC Plan.

(5) Using knowledge of the facility and its operations, describe the following in writing:

(a) The loading and unloading of transportation vehicles that risk the discharge of oil or release of hazardous substances during transport processes. These operations may include loading and unloading of trucks, railroad cars, or vessels. Estimate the volume of material involved in transfer operations, if the exact volume cannot be determined.

(b) Day-to-day operations that may present a risk of discharging oil or releasing a hazardous substance. These activities include scheduled venting, piping repair or replacement, valve maintenance, transfer of tank contents from one tank to another, etc. (not including transportation-related activities). Estimate the volume of material involved in these operations, if the exact volume cannot be determined.

(c) The secondary containment volume associated with each tank and/or transfer point at the facility. The numbering scheme developed on the tables, or an equivalent system, must be used to identify each containment area. Capacities must be listed for each individual unit (tanks, slumps, drainage traps, and ponds), as well as the facility total.

(d) Normal daily throughput for the facility and any effect on potential discharge volumes that a negative or positive change in that throughput may cause.

The vulnerability analysis shall address the potential effects (i.e., to human health, property, or the environment) of an oil discharge. Attachment C-III to Appendix C to this part provides a method that owners or operators shall use to determine appropriate distances from the facility to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments. Owners or operators can use a comparable formula that is considered acceptable by the RA. If a comparable formula is used, documentation of the reliability and analytical soundness of the formula must be attached to the response plan cover sheet. This analysis must be prepared for each facility and, as appropriate, must discuss the vulnerability of:

(1) Water intakes (drinking, cooling, or other);

(2) Schools;

(3) Medical facilities;

(4) Residential areas;

(5) Businesses;

(6) Wetlands or other sensitive environments;

(7) Fish and wildlife;

(8) Lakes and streams;

(9) Endangered flora and fauna;

(10) Recreational areas;

(11) Transportation routes (air, land, and water);

(12) Utilities; and

(13) Other areas of economic importance (e.g., beaches, marinas) including terrestrially sensitive environments, aquatic environments, and unique habitats.

Each owner or operator shall analyze the probability of a discharge occurring at the facility. This analysis shall incorporate factors such as oil discharge history, horizontal range of a potential discharge, and vulnerability to natural disaster, and shall, as appropriate, incorporate other factors such as tank age. This analysis will provide information for developing discharge scenarios for a worst case discharge and small and medium discharges and aid in the development of techniques to reduce the size and frequency of discharges. The owner or operator may need to research the age of the tanks the oil discharge history at the facility.

Briefly describe the facility's reportable oil spillhistory for the entire life of the facility to the extent that such information is reasonably identifiable, including:

(1) Date of discharge(s);

(2) List of discharge causes;

(3) Material(s) discharged;

(4) Amount discharged in gallons;

(5) Amount of discharge that reached navigable waters, if applicable;

(6) Effectiveness and capacity of secondary containment;

(7) Clean-up actions taken;

(8) Steps taken to reduce possibility of recurrence;

(9) Total oil storage capacity of the tank(s) or impoundment(s) from which the material discharged;

(10) Enforcement actions;

(11) Effectiveness of monitoring equipment; and

(12) Description(s) of how each oil discharge was detected.
