
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix F to Part 112 - Facility-Specific Response Plan
###### Dates and Type of Substantial Expansion:

1.2.8Include information on expansions that have occurred at the facility. Examples of such expansions include, but are not limited to: Throughput expansion, addition of a product line, change of a product line, and installation of additional oil storage capacity. The data provided shall include all facility historical information and detail the expansion of the facility. An example of substantial expansion is any material alteration of the facility which causes the owner or operator of the facility to re-evaluate and increase the response equipment necessary to adequately respond to a worst case discharge from the facility.

(if different from Facility Address)

(A) The information provided in this section shall describe what will be needed in an actual emergency involving the discharge of oil or a combination of hazardous substances and oil discharge. The Emergency Response Information section of the plan must include the following components:

(1) The information provided in the Emergency Notification Phone List in section 1.3.1 identifies and prioritizes the names and phone numbers of the organizations and personnel that need to be notified immediately in the event of an emergency. This section shall include all the appropriate phone numbers for the facility. These numbers must be verified each time the plan is updated. The contact list must be accessible to all facility employees to ensure that, in case of a discharge, any employee on site could immediately notify the appropriate parties.

(2) The Spill Response Notification Form in section 1.3.1 creates a checklist of information that shall be provided to the National Response Center (NRC) and other response personnel. All information on this checklist must be known at the time of notification, or be in the process of being collected. This notification form is based on a similar form used by the NRC. Note: Do not delay spill notification to collect the information on the list.

(3) Section 1.3.2 provides a description of the facility's list of emergency response equipment and location of the response equipment. When appropriate, the amount of oil that emergency response equipment can handle and any limitations (e.g., launching sites) must be described.

(4) Section 1.3.3 provides information regarding response equipment tests and deployment drills. Response equipment deployment exercises shall be conducted to ensure that response equipment is operational and the personnel who would operate the equipment in a spill response are capable of deploying and operating it. Only a representative sample of each type of response equipment needs to be deployed and operated, as long as the remainder is properly maintained. If appropriate, testing of response equipment may be conducted while it is being deployed. Facilities without facility-owned response equipment must ensure that the oil spill removal organization that is identified in the response plan to provide this response equipment certifies that the deployment exercises have been met. Refer to the National Preparedness for Response Exercise Program (PREP) Guidelines (see appendix E to this part, section 13, for availability), which satisfy Oil Pollution Act (OPA) response exercise requirements.

(5) Section 1.3.4 lists the facility response personnel, including those employed by the facility and those under contract to the facility for response activities, the amount of time needed for personnel to respond, their responsibility in the case of an emergency, and their level of response training. Three different forms are included in this section. The Emergency Response Personnel List shall be composed of all personnel employed by the facility whose duties involve responding to emergencies, including oil discharges, even when they are not physically present at the site. An example of this type of person would be the Building Engineer-in-Charge or Plant Fire Chief. The second form is a list of the Emergency Response Contractors (both primary and secondary) retained by the facility. Any changes in contractor status must be reflected in updates to the response plan. Evidence of contracts with response contractors shall be included in this section so that the availability of resources can be verified. The last form is the Facility Response Team List, which shall be composed of both emergency response personnel (referenced by job title/position) and emergency response contractors, included in one of the two lists described above, that will respond immediately upon discovery of an oil discharge or other emergency (i.e., the first people to respond). These are to be persons normally on the facility premises or primary response contractors. Examples of these personnel would be the Facility Hazardous Materials (HAZMAT) Spill Team 1, Facility Fire Engine Company 1, Production Supervisor, or Transfer Supervisor. Company personnel must be able to respond immediately and adequately if contractor support is not available.

(6) Section 1.3.5 lists factors that must, as appropriate, be considered when preparing an evacuation plan.

(7) Section 1.3.6 references the responsibilities of the qualified individual for the facility in the event of an emergency.

(B) The information provided in the emergency response section will aid in the assessment of the facility's ability to respond to a worst case discharge and will identify additional assistance that may be needed. In addition, the facility owner or operator may want to produce a wallet-size card containing a checklist of the immediate response and notification steps to be taken in the event of an oil discharge.

Date of Last Update:___

3. Chemicals Stored (Dispersants listed on EPA's NCP Product Schedule)

Were appropriate procedures used to receive approval for use of dispersants in accordance with the NCP (40 CFR 300.910) and the Area Contingency Plan (ACP), where applicable?___ (Y/N).

Name and State of On-Scene Coordinator (OSC) authorizing use: ___ .

Date Authorized: ___ .

4. Dispersant Dispensing Equipment-Operational Status: ___ .

7. Communication Equipment (include operating frequency and channel and/or cellular phone numbers)-Operational Status: ___

8. Fire Fighting and Personnel Protective Equipment-Operational Status: ___

9. Other (e.g., Heavy Equipment, Boats and Motors)-Operational Status: ___

Date of Last Update:____

Date of Last Update:____

1.3.5.1 Based on the analysis of the facility, as discussed elsewhere in the plan, a facility-wide evacuation plan shall be developed. In addition, plans to evacuate parts of the facility that are at a high risk of exposure in the event of a discharge or other release must be developed. Evacuation routes must be shown on a diagram of the facility (see section 1.9 of this appendix). When developing evacuation plans, consideration must be given to the following factors, as appropriate:

(1) Location of stored materials;

(2) Hazard imposed by discharged material;

(3) Discharge flow direction;

(4) Prevailing wind direction and speed;

(5) Water currents, tides, or wave conditions (if applicable);

(6) Arrival route of emergency response personnel and response equipment;

(7) Evacuation routes;

(8) Alternative routes of evacuation;

(9) Transportation of injured personnel to nearest emergency medical facility;

(10) Location of alarm/notification systems;

(11) The need for a centralized check-in area for evacuation validation (roll call);

(12) Selection of a mitigation command center; and

(13) Location of shelter at the facility as an alternative to evacuation.
