
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 112 - OIL POLLUTION PREVENTION
##### Appendix F to Part 112 - Facility-Specific Response Plan
###### Facility Distance to Navigable Waters:

(11)Mark the appropriate line for the nearest distance between an opportunity for discharge (i.e., oil storage tank, piping, or flowline) and a navigable water.

Using the flowchart provided in Attachment C-I to appendix C to this part, mark the appropriate answer to each question. Explanations of referenced terms can be found in Appendix C to this part. If a comparable formula to the ones described in Attachment C-III to appendix C to this part is used to calculate the planning distance, documentation of the reliability and analytical soundness of the formula must be attached to the response plan cover sheet.

Complete this block after all other questions have been answered.

CONCAWE. 1982. Methodologies for Hazard Analysis and Risk Assessment in the Petroleum Refining and Storage Industry. Prepared by CONCAWE's Risk Assessment Ad-hoc Group.

U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. 1987. Siting of HUD-Assisted Projects Near Hazardous Facilities: Acceptable Separation Distances from Explosive and Flammable Hazards. Prepared by the Office of Environment and Energy, Environmental Planning Division, Department of Housing and Urban Development. Washington, DC.

U.S. DOT, FEMA and U.S. EPA. Handbook of Chemical Hazard Analysis Procedures.

U.S. DOT, FEMA and U.S. EPA. Technical Guidance for Hazards Analysis: Emergency Planning for Extremely Hazardous Substances.

The National Response Team. 1987. Hazardous Materials Emergency Planning Guide. Washington, DC.

The National Response Team. 1990. Oil Spill Contingency Planning, National Status: A Report to the President. Washington, DC. U.S. Government Printing Office.

Offshore Inspection and Enforcement Division. 1988. Minerals Management Service, Offshore Inspection Program: National Potential Incident of Noncompliance (PINC) List. Reston, VA.

This cover sheet will provide EPA with basic information concerning the facility. It must accompany a submitted facility response plan. Explanations and detailed instructions can be found in appendix F. Please type or write legibly in blue or black ink. Public reporting burden for the collection of this information is estimated to vary from 1 hour to 270 hours per response in the first year, with an average of 5 hours per response. This estimate includes time for reviewing instructions, searching existing data sources, gathering the data needed, and completing and reviewing the collection of information. Send comments regarding the burden estimate of this information, including suggestions for reducing this burden to: Chief, Information Policy Branch, Mail Code: PM-2822, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Ariel Rios Building, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460; and to the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs, Office of Management and Budget, Washington D.C. 20503.

Does the facility transfer oil over-waterto or from vessels and does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 42,000 gallons?

Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and, within any storage area, does the facility lack secondary containmentthat is sufficiently large to contain the capacity of the largest aboveground oil storage tank plus sufficient freeboard to allow for precipitation?

Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and is the facility located at a distance(as calculated using the appropriate formula in appendix C or a comparable formula) such that a discharge from the facility could cause injury to fish and wildlife and sensitive environments?

Does the facility have a total oil storage capacity greater than or equal to 1 million gallons and has the facility experienced a reportable oil spillin an amount greater than or equal to 10,000 gallons within the last 5 years?

I certify under penalty of law that I have personally examined and am familiar with the information submitted in this document, and that based on my inquiry of those individuals responsible for obtaining information, I believe that the submitted information is true, accurate, and complete.
