
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 121 - STATE CERTIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A FEDERAL LICENSE OR PERMIT
##### Subpart B - Certification Procedures
###### ยง 121.6 Establishing the reasonable period of time.

(a) The Federal agency shall establish the reasonable period of time either categorically or on a case-by-case basis. In either event, the reasonable period of time shall not exceed one year from receipt.

(b) Within 15 days of receiving notice of the certification request from the project proponent, the Federal agency shall provide, in writing, the following information to the certifying authority:

(1) The date of receipt;

(2) The applicable reasonable period of time to act on the certification request; and

(3) The date upon which waiver will occur if the certifying authority fails or refuses to act on the certification request.

(c) In establishing the reasonable period of time, the Federal agency shall consider:

(1) The complexity of the proposed project;

(2) The nature of any potential discharge; and

(3) The potential need for additional study or evaluation of water quality effects from the discharge.

(d) The Federal agency may extend the reasonable period of time at the request of a certifying authority or a project proponent, but in no case shall the reasonable period of time exceed one year from receipt.

(1) Any request by a certifying authority or project proponent to the Federal agency to extend the reasonable period of time shall be in writing.

(2) If the Federal agency agrees to extend the reasonable period of time, the Federal agency shall notify the certifying authority and project proponent in writing.

(e) The certifying authority is not authorized to request the project proponent to withdraw a certification request and is not authorized to take any action to extend the reasonable period of time other than specified in ยง 121.6(d).
