
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart A - Definitions and General Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.1 Purpose and scope.
####### Coverage.,et seq.

(a)(1) The regulatory provisions contained in this part and parts 123, and 124 of this chapter implement the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) Program under sections 318, 402, and 405 of the Clean Water Act (CWA) (Public Law 92-500, as amended, 33 U.S.C. 1251)

(2) These provisions cover basic EPA permitting requirements (this part 122), what a State must do to obtain approval to operate its program in lieu of a Federal program and minimum requirements for administering the approved State program (part 123 of this chapter), and procedures for EPA processing of permit applications and appeals (part 124 of this chapter).

(3) These provisions also establish the requirements for public participation in EPA and State permit issuance and enforcement and related variance proceedings, and in the approval of State NPDES programs. These provisions carry out the purposes of the public participation requirements of part 25 of this chapter, and supersede the requirements of that part as they apply to actions covered under this part and parts 123, and 124 of this chapter.

(4) Regulatory provisions in Parts 125, 129, 133, 136 of this chapter and 40 CFR subchapter N and subchapter O of this chapter also implement the NPDES permit program.

(5) Certain requirements set forth in parts 122 and 124 of this chapter are made applicable to approved State programs by reference in part 123 of this chapter. These references are set forth in ยง 123.25 of this chapter. If a section or paragraph of part 122 or 124 of this chapter is applicable to States, through reference in ยง 123.25 of this chapter, that fact is signaled by the following words at the end of the section or paragraph heading: (Applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25 of this chapter). If these words are absent, the section (or paragraph) applies only to EPA administered permits. Nothing in this part and parts 123, or 124 of this chapter precludes more stringent State regulation of any activity covered by the regulations in 40 CFR parts 122, 123, and 124, whether or not under an approved State program.
