
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 121 - STATE CERTIFICATION OF ACTIVITIES REQUIRING A FEDERAL LICENSE OR PERMIT
##### Subpart C - Other Jurisdictions
###### ยง 121.12 Determination of effects on neighboring jurisdictions.

(a) A Federal agency shall within 5 days notify the Administrator when it receives a license or permit application and the related certification.

(b) Within 30 days after the Administrator receives notice in accordance with ยง 121.12(a), the Administrator at his or her discretion may determine that the discharge from the certified project may affect water quality in a neighboring jurisdiction. In making this determination and in accordance with applicable law, the Administrator may request copies of the certification and the federal license or permit application.

(c) If the Administrator determines that the discharge from the certified project may affect water quality in a neighboring jurisdiction, the Administrator, within 30 days after receiving notice in accordance with ยง 121.12(a), shall notify that neighboring jurisdiction, the certifying authority, the Federal agency, and the project proponent. The federal license or permit may not be issued pending the conclusion of the processes in this paragraph.

(1) Notification from the Administrator shall: Be in writing, be dated, and identify the materials provided by the Federal agency. The notification shall inform the neighboring jurisdiction that it has 60 days to notify the Administrator and the Federal agency, in writing, whether it has determined that the discharge will violate any of its water quality requirements, to object to the issuance of the federal license or permit, and to request a public hearing from the Federal agency.

(2) Notification of objection and request for a hearing from the neighboring jurisdiction shall: Be in writing; identify the receiving waters it determined will be affected by the discharge; and identify the specific water quality requirements it determines will be violated by the certified project.

(3) If the neighboring jurisdiction requests a hearing in accordance with ยง 121.12(c)(2), the Federal agency shall hold a public hearing on the neighboring jurisdiction's objection to the license or permit.

(i) The Federal agency shall provide the hearing notice to the Administrator at least 30 days before the hearing takes place.

(ii) At the hearing, the Administrator shall submit to the Federal agency his or her evaluation and recommendation(s) concerning the objection.

(iii) The Federal agency shall: Consider recommendations from the neighboring jurisdiction and the Administrator, and any additional evidence presented to the Federal agency at the hearing; and determine whether additional certification conditions are necessary to assure that the discharge from the certified project will comply with the neighboring jurisdiction's water quality requirements.

(iv) If additional certification conditions cannot assure that the discharge from the certified project will comply with the neighboring jurisdiction's water quality requirements, the Federal agency shall not issue the license or permit.
