
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Application Forms:,http://www.epa.gov/npdes

(2)(i) All applicants for EPA-issued permits must submit applications on EPA permit application forms. More than one application form may be required from a facility depending on the number and types of discharges or outfalls found there. Application forms may be obtained by contacting: U.S. EPA, Mail Code 4203M, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. NW, Washington, DC 20460 or by visiting. Applications for EPA-issued permits must be submitted as follows:

(A) All applicants, other than POTWs, TWTDS, vessels, and pesticide applicators must submit Form 1.

(B) Applicants for new and existing POTWs must submit the information contained in paragraph (j) of this section using Form 2A or other form provided by the director.

(C) Applicants for concentrated animal feeding operations or aquatic animal production facilities must submit Form 2B.

(D) Applicants for existing industrial facilities (including manufacturing facilities, commercial facilities, mining activities, and silvicultural activities), must submit Form 2C.

(E) Applicants for new industrial facilities that discharge process wastewater must submit Form 2D.

(F) Applicants for new and existing industrial facilities that discharge only nonprocess wastewater must submit Form 2E.

(G) Applicants for new and existing facilities whose discharge is composed entirely of storm water associated with industrial activity must submit Form 2F, unless exempted by ยง 122.26(c)(1)(ii). If the discharge is composed of storm water and non-storm water, the applicant must also submit, Forms 2C, 2D, and/or 2E, as appropriate (in addition to Form 2F).

(H) Applicants for new and existing TWTDS, subject to paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must submit the application information required by paragraph (q) of this section, using Form 2S or other form provided by the director.

(ii) The application information required by paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section may be electronically submitted if such method of submittal is approved by EPA or the Director.

(iii) Applicants can obtain copies of these forms by contacting the Water Management Divisions (or equivalent division which contains the NPDES permitting function) of the EPA Regional Offices. The Regional Offices' addresses can be found at ยง 1.7 of this chapter.

(iv) Applicants for State-issued permits must use State forms which must require at a minimum the information listed in the appropriate paragraphs of this section.
