
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Permits under section 405(f) of CWA.

(2)All TWTDS whose sewage sludge use or disposal practices are regulated by part 503 of this chapter must submit permit applications according to the applicable schedule in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) A TWTDS with a currently effective NPDES permit must submit a permit application at the time of its next NPDES permit renewal application. Such information must be submitted in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

(ii) Any other TWTDS not addressed under paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section must submit the information listed in paragraphs (c)(2)(ii)(A) through (E) of this section to the Director within 1 year after publication of a standard applicable to its sewage sludge use or disposal practice(s), using Form 2S or another form provided by the Director. The Director will determine when such TWTDS must submit a full permit application.

(A) The TWTDS's name, mailing address, location, and status as federal, State, private, public or other entity;

(B) The applicant's name, address, telephone number, electronic mail address and ownership status;

(C) A description of the sewage sludge use or disposal practices. Unless the sewage sludge meets the requirements of paragraph (q)(8)(iv) of this section, the description must include the name and address of any facility where sewage sludge is sent for treatment or disposal, and the location of any land application sites;

(D) Annual amount of sewage sludge generated, treated, used or disposed (estimated dry weight basis); and

(E) The most recent data the TWTDS may have on the quality of the sewage sludge.

(iii) Notwithstanding paragraphs (c)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section, the Director may require permit applications from any TWTDS at any time if the Director determines that a permit is necessary to protect public health and the environment from any potential adverse effects that may occur from toxic pollutants in sewage sludge.

(iv) Any TWTDS that commences operations after promulgation of an applicable "standard for sewage sludge use or disposal" must submit an application to the Director at least 180 days prior to the date proposed for commencing operations.
