
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Effluent characteristics.,E. coli

(7)(i) Information on the discharge of pollutants specified in this paragraph (g)(7) (except information on storm water discharges which is to be provided as specified in ยง 122.26). When "quantitative data" for a pollutant are required, the applicant must collect a sample of effluent and analyze it for the pollutant in accordance with analytical methods approved under Part 136 of this chapter unless use of another method is required for the pollutant under 40 CFR subchapters N or O. When no analytical method is approved under Part 136 or required under subchapters N or O, the applicant may use any suitable method but must provide a description of the method. When an applicant has two or more outfalls with substantially identical effluents, the Director may allow the applicant to test only one outfall and report that quantitative data as applying to the substantially identical outfall. The requirements in paragraphs (g)(7)(vi) and (vii) of this section state that an applicant must provide quantitative data for certain pollutants known or believed to be present do not apply to pollutants present in a discharge solely as the result of their presence in intake water; however, an applicant must report such pollutants as present. When paragraph (g)(7) of this section requires analysis of pH, temperature, cyanide, total phenols, residual chlorine, oil and grease, fecal coliform (including), and Enterococci (previously known as fecal streptococcus at ยง 122.26 (d)(2)(iii)(A)(3)), or volatile organics, grab samples must be collected for those pollutants. For all other pollutants, a 24-hour composite sample, using a minimum of four (4) grab samples, must be used unless specified otherwise at 40 CFR Part 136. However, a minimum of one grab sample may be taken for effluents from holding ponds or other impoundments with a retention period greater than 24 hours. In addition, for discharges other than storm water discharges, the Director may waive composite sampling for any outfall for which the applicant demonstrates that the use of an automatic sampler is infeasible and that the minimum of four (4) grab samples will be a representative sample of the effluent being discharged. Results of analyses of individual grab samples for any parameter may be averaged to obtain the daily average. Grab samples that are not required to be analyzed immediately (see Table II at 40 CFR 136.3 (e)) may be composited in the laboratory, provided that container, preservation, and holding time requirements are met (see Table II at 40 CFR 136.3 (e)) and that sample integrity is not compromised by compositing.
