
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Reporting requirements.

(iii)Every applicant must report quantitative data for every outfall for the following pollutants:

(iv) The Director may waive the reporting requirements for individual point sources or for a particular industry category for one or more of the pollutants listed in paragraph (g)(7)(iii) of this section if the applicant has demonstrated that such a waiver is appropriate because information adequate to support issuance of a permit can be obtained with less stringent requirements.

(v) Each applicant with processes in one or more primary industry category (see appendix A of this part) contributing to a discharge must report quantitative data for the following pollutants in each outfall containing process wastewater:

(A) The organic toxic pollutants in the fractions designated in table I of appendix D of this part for the applicant's industrial category or categories unless the applicant qualifies as a small business under paragraph (g)(8) of this section. Table II of appendix D of this part lists the organic toxic pollutants in each fraction. The fractions result from the sample preparation required by the analytical procedure which uses gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. A determination that an applicant falls within a particular industrial category for the purposes of selecting fractions for testing is not conclusive as to the applicant's inclusion in that category for any other purposes. See Notes 2, 3, and 4 of this section.

(B) The pollutants listed in table III of appendix D of this part (the toxic metals, cyanide, and total phenols).

(vi)(A) Each applicant must indicate whether it knows or has reason to believe that any of the pollutants in table IV of appendix D of this part (certain conventional and nonconventional pollutants) is discharged from each outfall. If an applicable effluent limitations guideline either directly limits the pollutant or, by its express terms, indirectly limits the pollutant through limitations on an indicator, the applicant must report quantitative data. For every pollutant discharged which is not so limited in an effluent limitations guideline, the applicant must either report quantitative data or briefly describe the reasons the pollutant is expected to be discharged.

(B) Each applicant must indicate whether it knows or has reason to believe that any of the pollutants listed in table II or table III of appendix D of this part (the toxic pollutants and total phenols) for which quantitative data are not otherwise required under paragraph (g)(7)(v) of this section are discharged from each outfall. For every pollutant expected to be discharged in concentrations of 10 ppb or greater the applicant must report quantitative data. For acrolein, acrylonitrile, 2,4 dinitrophenol, and 2-methyl-4, 6 dinitrophenol, where any of these four pollutants are expected to be discharged in concentrations of 100 ppb or greater the applicant must report quantitative data. For every pollutant expected to be discharged in concentrations less than 10 ppb, or in the case of acrolein, acrylonitrile, 2,4 dinitrophenol, and 2-methyl-4, 6 dinitrophenol, in concentrations less than 100 ppb, the applicant must either submit quantitative data or briefly describe the reasons the pollutant is expected to be discharged. An applicant qualifying as a small business under paragraph (g)(8) of this section is not required to analyze for pollutants listed in table II of appendix D of this part (the organic toxic pollutants).

(vii) Each applicant must indicate whether it knows or has reason to believe that any of the pollutants in table V of appendix D of this part (certain hazardous substances and asbestos) are discharged from each outfall. For every pollutant expected to be discharged, the applicant must briefly describe the reasons the pollutant is expected to be discharged, and report any quantitative data it has for any pollutant.

(viii) Each applicant must report qualitative data, generated using a screening procedure not calibrated with analytical standards, for 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin (TCDD) if it:

(A) Uses or manufactures 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4,5,-T); 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) propanoic acid (Silvex, 2,4,5,-TP); 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) ethyl, 2,2-dichloropropionate (Erbon); O,O-dimethyl O-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl) phosphorothioate (Ronnel); 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (TCP); or hexachlorophene (HCP); or

(B) Knows or has reason to believe that TCDD is or may be present in an effluent.

(ix) Where quantitative data are required in paragraphs (g)(7)(i) through (viii) of this section, existing data may be used, if available, in lieu of sampling done solely for the purpose of the application, provided that: All data requirements are met; sampling was performed, collected, and analyzed no more than four and one-half years prior to submission; all data are representative of the discharge; and all available representative data are considered in the values reported.
