
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Effluent characteristics.,E. coli

(4)(i) Quantitative data for the pollutants or parameters listed below, unless testing is waived by the Director. The quantitative data may be data collected over the past 365 days, if they remain representative of current operations, and must include maximum daily value, average daily value, and number of measurements taken. The applicant must collect and analyze samples in accordance with 40 CFR Part 136. When analysis of pH, temperature, residual chlorine, oil and grease, or fecal coliform (including), and Enterococci (previously known as fecal streptococcus) and volatile organics is required in paragraphs (h)(4)(i)(A) through (K) of this section, grab samples must be collected for those pollutants. For all other pollutants, a 24-hour composite sample, using a minimum of four (4) grab samples, must be used unless specified otherwise at 40 CFR Part 136. For a composite sample, only one analysis of the composite of aliquots is required. New dischargers must include estimates for the pollutants or parameters listed below instead of actual sampling data, along with the source of each estimate. All levels must be reported or estimated as concentration and as total mass, except for flow, pH, and temperature.

(A) Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD).

(B) Total Suspended Solids (TSS).

(C) Fecal Coliform (if believed present or if sanitary waste is or will be discharged).

(D) Total Residual Chlorine (if chlorine is used).

(E) Oil and Grease.

(F) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) (if non-contact cooling water is or will be discharged).

(G) Total Organic Carbon (TOC) (if non-contact cooling water is or will be discharged).

(H) Ammonia (as N).

(I) Discharge Flow.

(J) pH.

(K) Temperature (Winter and Summer).

(ii) The Director may waive the testing and reporting requirements for any of the pollutants or flow listed in paragraph (h)(4)(i) of this section if the applicant submits a request for such a waiver before or with his application which demonstrates that information adequate to support issuance of a permit can be obtained through less stringent requirements.

(iii) If the applicant is a new discharger, he must complete and submit Item IV of Form 2e (see ยง 122.21(h)(4)) by providing quantitative data in accordance with that section no later than two years after commencement of discharge. However, the applicant need not complete those portions of Item IV requiring tests which he has already performed and reported under the discharge monitoring requirements of his NPDES permit.

(iv) The requirements of parts i and iii of this section that an applicant must provide quantitative data or estimates of certain pollutants do not apply to pollutants present in a discharge solely as a result of their presence in intake water. However, an applicant must report such pollutants as present. Net credit may be provided for the presence of pollutants in intake water if the requirements of ยง 122.45(g) are met.
