
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Application requirements for new and existing POTWs.

(j)Unless otherwise indicated, all POTWs and other dischargers designated by the Director must provide, at a minimum, the information in this paragraph to the Director, using Form 2A or another application form provided by the Director. Permit applicants must submit all information available at the time of permit application. The information may be provided by referencing information previously submitted to the Director. The Director may waive any requirement of this paragraph if he or she has access to substantially identical information. The Director may also waive any requirement of this paragraph that is not of material concern for a specific permit, if approved by the Regional Administrator. The waiver request to the Regional Administrator must include the State's justification for the waiver. A Regional Administrator's disapproval of a State's proposed waiver does not constitute final Agency action, but does provide notice to the State and permit applicant(s) that EPA may object to any State-issued permit issued in the absence of the required information.
