
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### 5

() Other considerations (including, but not limited to, the history of toxic impacts and compliance problems at the POTW) that the Director determines could cause or contribute to adverse water quality impacts.

(iii) Where the POTW has two or more outfalls with substantially identical effluent discharging to the same receiving stream segment, the Director may allow applicants to submit whole effluent toxicity data for only one outfall on a case-by-case basis. The Director may also allow applicants to composite samples from one or more outfalls that discharge into the same mixing zone.

(iv) Each applicant required to perform whole effluent toxicity testing pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section must provide:

(A) Results of a minimum of four quarterly tests for a year, from the year preceding the permit application; or

(B) Results from four tests performed at least annually in the four and one half year period prior to the application, provided the results show no appreciable toxicity using a safety factor determined by the permitting authority.

(v) Applicants must conduct tests with multiple species (no less than two species; e.g., fish, invertebrate, plant), and test for acute or chronic toxicity, depending on the range of receiving water dilution. EPA recommends that applicants conduct acute or chronic testing based on the following dilutions:

(A) Acute toxicity testing if the dilution of the effluent is greater than 1000:1 at the edge of the mixing zone;

(B) Acute or chronic toxicity testing if the dilution of the effluent is between 100:1 and 1000:1 at the edge of the mixing zone. Acute testing may be more appropriate at the higher end of this range (1000:1), and chronic testing may be more appropriate at the lower end of this range (100:1); and

(C) Chronic testing if the dilution of the effluent is less than 100:1 at the edge of the mixing zone.

(vi) Each applicant required to perform whole effluent toxicity testing pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section must provide the number of chronic or acute whole effluent toxicity tests that have been conducted since the last permit reissuance.

(vii) Applicants must provide the results using the form provided by the Director, or test summaries if available and comprehensive, for each whole effluent toxicity test conducted pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section for which such information has not been reported previously to the Director.

(viii) Whole effluent toxicity testing conducted pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section must be conducted using methods approved under 40 CFR part 136. West coast facilities in Washington, Oregon, California, Alaska, Hawaii, and the Pacific Territories are exempted from 40 CFR part 136 chronic methods and must use alternative guidance as directed by the permitting authority.

(ix) For whole effluent toxicity data submitted to the Director within four and one-half years prior to the date of the application, applicants must provide the dates on which the data were submitted and a summary of the results.

(x) Each POTW required to perform whole effluent toxicity testing pursuant to paragraph (j)(5)(ii) of this section must provide any information on the cause of toxicity and written details of any toxicity reduction evaluation conducted, if any whole effluent toxicity test conducted within the past four and one-half years revealed toxicity.
