
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Effluent monitoring for specific parameters.

(4)(i) As provided in paragraphs (j)(4)(ii) through (x) of this section, all applicants must submit to the Director effluent monitoring information for samples taken from each outfall through which effluent is discharged to waters of the United States, except for CSOs. The Director may allow applicants to submit sampling data for only one outfall on a case-by-case basis, where the applicant has two or more outfalls with substantially identical effluent. The Director may also allow applicants to composite samples from one or more outfalls that discharge into the same mixing zone. For POTWs applying prior to commencement of discharge, data shall be submitted no later than 24 months after the commencement of discharge;

(ii) All applicants must sample and analyze for the pollutants listed in appendix J, Table 1A of this part;

(iii) All applicants with a design flow greater than or equal to 0.1 mgd must sample and analyze for the pollutants listed in appendix J, Table 1 of this part. Facilities that do not use chlorine for disinfection, do not use chlorine elsewhere in the treatment process, and have no reasonable potential to discharge chlorine in their effluent may delete chlorine from Table 1;

(iv) The following applicants must sample and analyze for the pollutants listed in appendix J, Table 2 of this part, and for any other pollutants for which the State or EPA have established water quality standards applicable to the receiving waters:

(A) All POTWs with a design flow rate equal to or greater than one million gallons per day;

(B) All POTWs with approved pretreatment programs or POTWs required to develop a pretreatment program;

(C) Other POTWs, as required by the Director;

(v) The Director should require sampling for additional pollutants, as appropriate, on a case-by-case basis;

(vi) Applicants must provide data from a minimum of three samples taken within four and one-half years prior to the date of the permit application. Samples must be representative of the seasonal variation in the discharge from each outfall. Existing data may be used, if available, in lieu of sampling done solely for the purpose of this application. The Director should require additional samples, as appropriate, on a case-by-case basis.

(vii) All existing data for pollutants specified in paragraphs (j)(4)(ii) through (v) of this section that is collected within four and one-half years of the application must be included in the pollutant data summary submitted by the applicant. If, however, the applicant samples for a specific pollutant on a monthly or more frequent basis, it is only necessary, for such pollutant, to summarize all data collected within one year of the application.
