
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Effluent characteristics.

(5)The requirements in paragraphs (h)(4)(i), (ii), and (iii) of this section that an applicant must provide estimates of certain pollutants expected to be present do not apply to pollutants present in a discharge solely as a result of their presence in intake water; however, an applicant must report such pollutants as present. Net credits may be provided for the presence of pollutants in intake water if the requirements of ยง 122.45(g) are met. All levels (except for discharge flow, temperature, and pH) must be estimated as concentration and as total mass.

(i) Each applicant must report estimated daily maximum, daily average, and source of information for each outfall for the following pollutants or parameters. The Director may waive the reporting requirements for any of these pollutants and parameters if the applicant submits a request for such a waiver before or with his application which demonstrates that information adequate to support issuance of the permit can be obtained through less stringent reporting requirements.

(A) Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD).

(B) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD).

(C) Total Organic Carbon (TOC).

(D) Total Suspended Solids (TSS).

(E) Flow.

(F) Ammonia (as N).

(G) Temperature (winter and summer).

(H) pH.

(ii) Each applicant must report estimated daily maximum, daily average, and source of information for each outfall for the following pollutants, if the applicant knows or has reason to believe they will be present or if they are limited by an effluent limitation guideline or new source performance standard either directly or indirectly through limitations on an indicator pollutant: all pollutants in table IV of appendix D of part 122 (certain conventional and nonconventional pollutants).

(iii) Each applicant must report estimated daily maximum, daily average and source of information for the following pollutants if he knows or has reason to believe that they will be present in the discharges from any outfall:

(A) The pollutants listed in table III of appendix D (the toxic metals, in the discharge from any outfall: Total cyanide, and total phenols);

(B) The organic toxic pollutants in table II of appendix D (except bis (chloromethyl) ether, dichlorofluoromethane and trichlorofluoromethane). This requirement is waived for applicants with expected gross sales of less than $100,000 per year for the next three years, and for coal mines with expected average production of less than 100,000 tons of coal per year.

(iv) The applicant is required to report that 2,3,7,8 Tetrachlorodibenzo-P-Dioxin (TCDD) may be discharged if he uses or manufactures one of the following compounds, or if he knows or has reason to believe that TCDD will or may be present in an effluent:

(A) 2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy acetic acid (2,4,5-T) (CAS #93-76-5);

(B) 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) propanoic acid (Silvex, 2,4,5-TP) (CAS #93-72-1);

(C) 2-(2,4,5-trichlorophenoxy) ethyl 2,2-dichloropropionate (Erbon) (CAS #136-25-4);

(D) 0,0-dimethyl 0-(2,4,5-trichlorophenyl) phosphorothioate (Ronnel) (CAS #299-84-3);

(E) 2,4,5-trichlorophenol (TCP) (CAS #95-95-4); or

(F) Hexachlorophene (HCP) (CAS #70-30-4);

(v) Each applicant must report any pollutants listed in table V of appendix D (certain hazardous substances) if he believes they will be present in any outfall (no quantitative estimates are required unless they are already available).

(vi) No later than 24 months after the commencement of discharge from the proposed facility, the applicant is required to complete and submit items V and VI of NPDES application Form 2C (see ยง 122.21(g)). However, the applicant need not complete those portions of Item V requiring tests which have already been performed and reported under the discharge monitoring requirements of the NPDES permit.
