
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### § 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see § 123.25).
####### Special provisions for applications from new sources.

(l)(1) The owner or operator of any facility which may be a new source (as defined in § 122.2) and which is located in a State without an approved NPDES program must comply with the provisions of this paragraph (l)(1).

(2)(i) Before beginning any on-site construction as defined in § 122.29, the owner or operator of any facility which may be a new source must submit information to the Regional Administrator so that he or she can determine if the facility is a new source. The Regional Administrator may request any additional information needed to determine whether the facility is a new source.

(ii) The Regional Administrator shall make an initial determination whether the facility is a new source within 30 days of receiving all necessary information under paragraph (l)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) The Regional Administrator shall issue a public notice in accordance with § 124.10 of this chapter of the new source determination under paragraph (l)(2) of this section. If the Regional Administrator has determined that the facility is a new source, the notice shall state that the applicant must comply with the environmental review requirements of 40 CFR 6.600 through 6.607.

(4) Any interested party may challenge the Regional Administrator's initial new source determination by requesting review of the determination under § 124.19 of this chapter within 30 days of the public notice of the initial determination. If all interested parties agree, the Environmental Appeals Board may defer review until after a final permit decision is made, and consolidate review of the determination with any review of the permit decision.
