
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Expedited variance procedures and time extensions.

(o)(1) Notwithstanding the time requirements in paragraphs (m) and (n) of this section, the Director may notify a permit applicant before a draft permit is issued under ยง 124.6 that the draft permit will likely contain limitations which are eligible for variances. In the notice the Director may require the applicant as a condition of consideration of any potential variance request to submit a request explaining how the requirements of part 125 applicable to the variance have been met and may require its submission within a specified reasonable time after receipt of the notice. The notice may be sent before the permit application has been submitted. The draft or final permit may contain the alternative limitations which may become effective upon final grant of the variance.

(2) A discharger who cannot file a timely complete request required under paragraph (m)(2)(i)(B) or (m)(2)(ii) of this section may request an extension. The extension may be granted or denied at the discretion of the Director. Extensions shall be no more than 6 months in duration.
