
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### New units at existing facilities not previously subject to Part 125.

(E)The owner or operator of a new unit as defined at 40 CFR 125.92(u) at an existing facility not previously subject to part 125 of this chapter that increases the total capacity of the existing facility to more than 2 mgd DIF must submit the information required under paragraphs (r)(2), (3), (5), and (8) of this section and applicable provisions of paragraphs (r)(4), (6), and (7) of this section at the time of the permit application for the new unit. Requests for alternative requirements under 40 CFR 125.94(e)(2) or 125.98(b)(7) must be submitted with the permit application. If the total capacity of the facility will increase to more than 125 mgd AIF, the owner or operator must also submit the information required in paragraphs (r)(9) through (13) of this section. If the owner or operator of an existing facility intends to comply with the BTA (best technology available) standards for entrainment using a closed-cycle recirculating system as defined at 40 CFR 125.92(c), the Director may reduce or waive some or all of the information required under paragraphs (r)(9) through (13) of this section.

(F) If the owner or operator of an existing facility plans to retire the facility before the current permit expires, then the requirements of paragraphs (r)(1)(ii)(A), (B), (C), (D), and (E) of this section do not apply.

(G) If the owner or operator of an existing facility plans to retire the facility after the current permit expires but within one permit cycle, then the Director may waive the requirements of paragraphs (r)(7), (9), (10), (11), (12), and (13) of this section pending a signed certification statement from the owner or operator of the facility specifying the last operating date of the facility.
