
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Rate of Impingement.

(A)If the demonstration relies in part on a credit for reductions in the rate of impingement in the system, the applicant must provide an estimate of those reductions to be used as credit towards reducing impingement mortality, and any relevant supporting documentation, including previously collected biological data, performance reviews, and previously conducted performance studies not already submitted to the Director. The submission of studies more than 10 years old must include an explanation of why the data are still relevant and representative of conditions at the facility and explain how the data should be interpreted using the definitions of impingement and entrapment at 40 CFR 125.92(n) and (j), respectively. The estimated reductions in rate of impingement must be based on a comparison of the system to a once-through cooling system with a traveling screen whose point of withdrawal from the surface water source is located at the shoreline of the source waterbody. For impoundments that are waters of the United States in whole or in part, the facility's rate of impingement must be measured at a location within the cooling water intake system that the Director deems appropriate. In addition, the applicant must include two years of biological data collection demonstrating the rate of impingement resulting from the system. For this demonstration, the applicant must collect data no less frequently than monthly. The Director may establish more frequent data collection.
