
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.21 Application for a permit (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Cost evaluations.

(iii)The study must include engineering cost estimates of all technologies considered in paragraphs (r)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section. Facility costs must also be adjusted to estimate social costs. All costs must be presented as the net present value (NPV) and the corresponding annual value. Costs must be clearly labeled as compliance costs or social costs. The applicant must separately discuss facility level compliance costs and social costs, and provide documentation as follows:

(A) Compliance costs are calculated as after-tax, while social costs are calculated as pre-tax. Compliance costs include the facility's administrative costs, including costs of permit application, while the social cost adjustment includes the Director's administrative costs. Any outages, downtime, or other impacts to facility net revenue, are included in compliance costs, while only that portion of lost net revenue that does not accrue to other producers can be included in social costs. Social costs must also be discounted using social discount rates of 3 percent and 7 percent. Assumptions regarding depreciation schedules, tax rates, interest rates, discount rates and related assumptions must be identified;

(B) Costs and explanation of any additional facility modifications necessary to support construction and operation of technologies considered in paragraphs (r)(10)(i) and (ii) of this section, including but not limited to relocation of existing buildings or equipment, reinforcement or upgrading of existing equipment, and additional construction and operating permits. Assumptions regarding depreciation schedules, interest rates, discount rates, useful life of the technology considered, and any related assumptions must be identified; and

(C) Costs and explanation for addressing any non-water quality environmental and other impacts identified in paragraph (r)(12) of this section. The cost evaluation must include a discussion of all reasonable attempts to mitigate each of these impacts.
