
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.26 Storm water discharges (applicable to State NPDES programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Petitions.

(f)(1) Any operator of a municipal separate storm sewer system may petition the Director to require a separate NPDES permit (or a permit issued under an approved NPDES State program) for any discharge into the municipal separate storm sewer system.

(2) Any person may petition the Director to require a NPDES permit for a discharge which is composed entirely of storm water which contributes to a violation of a water quality standard or is a significant contributor of pollutants to waters of the United States.

(3) The owner or operator of a municipal separate storm sewer system may petition the Director to reduce the Census estimates of the population served by such separate system to account for storm water discharged to combined sewers as defined by 40 CFR 35.2005(b)(11) that is treated in a publicly owned treatment works. In municipalities in which combined sewers are operated, the Census estimates of population may be reduced proportional to the fraction, based on estimated lengths, of the length of combined sewers over the sum of the length of combined sewers and municipal separate storm sewers where an applicant has submitted the NPDES permit number associated with each discharge point and a map indicating areas served by combined sewers and the location of any combined sewer overflow discharge point.

(4) Any person may petition the Director for the designation of a large, medium, or small municipal separate storm sewer system as defined by paragraph (b)(4)(iv), (b)(7)(iv), or (b)(16) of this section.

(5) The Director shall make a final determination on any petition received under this section within 90 days after receiving the petition with the exception of petitions to designate a small MS4 in which case the Director shall make a final determination on the petition within 180 days after its receipt.
