
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.26 Storm water discharges (applicable to State NPDES programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Limitations.

(3)(i) Storm water discharges from construction activities identified in paragraphs (b)(14)(x) and (b)(15) are not eligible for this conditional exclusion.

(ii) This conditional exclusion from the requirement for an NPDES permit is available on a facility-wide basis only, not for individual outfalls. If a facility has some discharges of storm water that would otherwise be "no exposure" discharges, individual permit requirements should be adjusted accordingly.

(iii) If circumstances change and industrial materials or activities become exposed to rain, snow, snow melt, and/or runoff, the conditions for this exclusion no longer apply. In such cases, the discharge becomes subject to enforcement for un-permitted discharge. Any conditionally exempt discharger who anticipates changes in circumstances should apply for and obtain permit authorization prior to the change of circumstances.

(iv) Notwithstanding the provisions of this paragraph, the NPDES permitting authority retains the authority to require permit authorization (and deny this exclusion) upon making a determination that the discharge causes, has a reasonable potential to cause, or contributes to an instream excursion above an applicable water quality standard, including designated uses.
