
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### § 122.33 Requirements for obtaining permit coverage for regulated small MS4s.
####### Individual permit.

(2)(i) If seeking authorization to discharge under an individual permit to implement a program under § 122.34, the small MS4 operator must submit an application to the appropriate NPDES permitting authority that includes the information required under § 122.21(f) and the following:

(A) The best management practices (BMPs) that the small MS4 operator or another entity proposes to implement for each of the storm water minimum control measures described in § 122.34(b)(1) through (6);

(B) The proposed measurable goals for each of the BMPs including, as appropriate, the months and years in which the small MS4 operator proposes to undertake required actions, including interim milestones and the frequency of the action;

(C) The person or persons responsible for implementing or coordinating the storm water management program;

(D) An estimate of square mileage served by the small MS4;

(E) Any additional information that the NPDES permitting authority requests; and

(F) A storm sewer map that satisfies the requirement of § 122.34(b)(3)(i) satisfies the map requirement in § 122.21(f)(7).

(ii) If seeking authorization to discharge under an individual permit to implement a program that is different from the program under § 122.34, the small MS4 operator must comply with the permit application requirements in § 122.26(d). The small MS4 operator must submit both parts of the application requirements in § 122.26(d)(1) and (2). The small MS4 operator must submit the application at least 180 days before the expiration of the small MS4 operator's existing permit. Information required by § 122.26(d)(1)(ii) and (d)(2) regarding its legal authority is not required, unless the small MS4 operator intends for the permit writer to take such information into account when developing other permit conditions.

(iii) If allowed by your NPDES permitting authority, the small MS4 operator and another regulated entity may jointly apply under either paragraph (b)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section to be co-permittees under an individual permit.
