
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### § 122.33 Requirements for obtaining permit coverage for regulated small MS4s.
####### General permit.

(1)(i) If seeking coverage under a general permit issued by the NPDES permitting authority in accordance with § 122.28(d)(1), the small MS4 operator must submit a Notice of Intent (NOI) to the NPDES permitting authority consistent with § 122.28(b)(2). The small MS4 operator may file its own NOI, or the small MS4 operator and other municipalities or governmental entities may jointly submit an NOI. If the small MS4 operator wants to share responsibilities for meeting the minimum measures with other municipalities or governmental entities, the small MS4 operator must submit an NOI that describes which minimum measures it will implement and identify the entities that will implement the other minimum measures within the area served by the MS4. The general permit will explain any other steps necessary to obtain permit authorization.

(ii) If seeking coverage under a general permit issued by the NPDES permitting authority in accordance with § 122.28(d)(2), the small MS4 operator must submit an NOI to the Director consisting of the minimum required information in § 122.28(b)(2)(ii), and any other information the Director identifies as necessary to establish additional terms and conditions that satisfy the permit requirements of § 122.34, such as the information required under § 122.33(b)(2)(i). The general permit will explain any other steps necessary to obtain permit authorization.
