
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart B - Permit Application and Special NPDES Program Requirements
###### ยง 122.38 Public notification requirements for CSO discharges to the Great Lakes Basin.
####### Seek input on public notification plan.

(d)Prior to submitting the public notification plan, or resubmitting under ยง 122.21(j)(8)(iii), the Great Lakes Basin CSO permittee must:

(1) Seek input from the local public health department (or if there is no local health department, the State health department), to:

(i) Develop recommended protocols for providing notification of CSO discharges to the public health department. The protocols will specify which CSO discharges are subject to notification, the means of notification, timing of notification and other relevant factors.

(ii) Develop recommendations for providing notice to the general public of CSO discharges electronically and by other appropriate means.

(iii) Develop recommendations for areas that would be considered "potentially impacted public access areas" as referenced in ยง 122.38(a)(1), (2), and (3).

(2) Seek input from other potentially affected public entities and Indian Tribes whose waters may be impacted by a CSO discharge.

(3) Consider the recommendations of the public health department and other potentially affected entities in developing protocols in its public notification plan for providing notification of CSO discharges to the public health department and potentially affected public entities and Indian Tribes.
