
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - Transfer, Modification, Revocation and Reissuance, and Termination of Permits
###### § 122.62 Modification or revocation and reissuance of permits (applicable to State programs, see § 123.25).

When the Director receives any information (for example, inspects the facility, receives information submitted by the permittee as required in the permit (see § 122.41), receives a request for modification or revocation and reissuance under § 124.5, or conducts a review of the permit file) he or she may determine whether or not one or more of the causes listed in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section for modification or revocation and reissuance or both exist. If cause exists, the Director may modify or revoke and reissue the permit accordingly, subject to the limitations of § 124.5(c), and may request an updated application if necessary. When a permit is modified, only the conditions subject to modification are reopened. If a permit is revoked and reissued, the entire permit is reopened and subject to revision and the permit is reissued for a new term. See § 124.5(c)(2). If cause does not exist under this section or § 122.63, the Director shall not modify or revoke and reissue the permit. If a permit modification satisfies the criteria in § 122.63 for "minor modifications" the permit may be modified without a draft permit or public review. Otherwise, a draft permit must be prepared and other procedures in part 124 (or procedures of an approved State program) followed.
