
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart D - Transfer, Modification, Revocation and Reissuance, and Termination of Permits
###### ยง 122.62 Modification or revocation and reissuance of permits (applicable to State programs, see ยง 123.25).
####### Compliance schedules.

(13)To modify a schedule of compliance to reflect the time lost during construction of an innovative or alternative facility, in the case of a POTW which has received a grant under section 202(a)(3) of CWA for 100% of the costs to modify or replace facilities constructed with a grant for innovative and alternative wastewater technology under section 202(a)(2). In no case shall the compliance schedule be modified to extend beyond an applicable CWA statutory deadline for compliance.

(14) For a small MS4, to include an effluent limitation requiring implementation of a minimum control measure or measures as specified in ยง 122.34(b) when:

(i) The permit does not include such measure(s) based upon the determination that another entity was responsible for implementation of the requirement(s); and

(ii) The other entity fails to implement measure(s) that satisfy the requirement(s).

(15) To correct technical mistakes, such as errors in calculation, or mistaken interpretations of law made in determining permit conditions.

(16) When the discharger has installed the treatment technology considered by the permit writer in setting effluent limitations imposed under section 402(a)(1) of the CWA and has properly operated and maintained the facilities but nevertheless has been unable to achieve those effluent limitations. In this case, the limitations in the modified permit may reflect the level of pollutant control actually achieved (but shall not be less stringent than required by a subsequently promulgated effluent limitations guideline).
