
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 122 - EPA ADMINISTERED PERMIT PROGRAMS: THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Appendix D to Part 122 - NPDES Permit Application Testing Requirements (§ 122.21)

[Note 1: The Environmental Protection Agency has suspended the requirements of § 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and Table I of Appendix D as they apply to certain industrial categories. The suspensions are as follows:

a. At 46 FR 2046, Jan. 8, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency suspended until further notice § 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) as it applies to coal mines.

b. At 46 FR 22585, Apr. 20, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency suspended until further notice § 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c as they apply to:

1. Testing and reporting for all four organic fractions in the Greige Mills Subcategory of the Textile Mills industry (Subpart C-Low water use processing of 40 CFR part 410), and testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

2. Testing and reporting for the volatile, base/neutral and pesticide fractions in the Base and Precious Metals Subcategory of the Ore Mining and Dressing industry (subpart B of 40 CFR part 440), and testing and reporting for all four fractions in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

3. Testing and reporting for all four GC/MS fractions in the Porcelain Enameling industry.

c. At 46 FR 35090, July 1, 1981, the Environmental Protection Agency suspended until further notice § 122.21(g)(7)(ii)(A) and the corresponding portions of Item V-C of the NPDES application Form 2c as they apply to:

1. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Tall Oil Rosin Subcategory (subpart D) and Rosin-Based Derivatives Subcategory (subpart F) of the Gum and Wood Chemicals industry (40 CFR part 454), and testing and reporting for the pesticide and base/netural fractions in all other subcategories of this industrial category.

2. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Leather Tanning and Finishing, Paint and Ink Formulation, and Photographic Supplies industrial categories.

3. Testing and reporting for the acid, base/neutral and pesticide fractions in the Petroleum Refining industrial category.

4. Testing and reporting for the pesticide fraction in the Papergrade Sulfite subcategories (subparts J and U) of the Pulp and Paper industry (40 CFR part 430); testing and reporting for the base/neutral and pesticide fractions in the following subcategories: Deink (subpart Q), Dissolving Kraft (subpart F), and Paperboard from Waste Paper (subpart E); testing and reporting for the volatile, base/neutral and pesticide fractions in the following subcategories: BCT Bleached Kraft (subpart H), Semi-Chemical (subparts B and C), and Nonintegrated-Fine Papers (subpart R); and testing and reporting for the acid, base/neutral, and pesticide fractions in the following subcategories: Fine Bleached Kraft (subpart I), Dissolving Sulfite Pulp (subpart K), Groundwood-Fine Papers (subpart O), Market Bleached Kraft (subpart G), Tissue from Wastepaper (subpart T), and Nonintegrated-Tissue Papers (subpart S).

5. Testing and reporting for the base/neutral fraction in the Once-Through Cooling Water, Fly Ash and Bottom Ash Transport Water process wastestreams of the Steam Electric Power Plant industrial category.

For the duration of the suspensions, therefore, Table I effectively reads:
