
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 123 - STATE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Program Approval, Revision, and Withdrawal
###### ยง 123.63 Criteria for withdrawal of State programs.

(a) In the case of a sewage sludge management program, references in this section to "this part" will be deemed to refer to 40 CFR part 501. The Administrator may withdraw program approval when a State program no longer complies with the requirements of this part, and the State fails to take corrective action. Such circumstances include the following:

(1) Where the State's legal authority no longer meets the requirements of this part, including:

(i) Failure of the State to promulgate or enact new authorities when necessary; or

(ii) Action by a State legislature or court striking down or limiting State authorities.

(2) Where the operation of the State program fails to comply with the requirements of this part, including:

(i) Failure to exercise control over activities required to be regulated under this part, including failure to issue permits;

(ii) Repeated issuance of permits which do not conform to the requirements of this part; or

(iii) Failure to comply with the public participation requirements of this part.

(3) Where the State's enforcement program fails to comply with the requirements of this part, including:

(i) Failure to act on violations of permits or other program requirements;

(ii) Failure to seek adequate enforcement penalties or to collect administrative fines when imposed; or

(iii) Failure to inspect and monitor activities subject to regulation.

(4) Where the State program fails to comply with the terms of the Memorandum of Agreement required under ยง 123.24 (or, in the case of a sewage sludge management program, ยง 501.14 of this chapter).

(5) Where the State fails to develop an adequate regulatory program for developing water quality-based effluent limits in NPDES permits.

(6) Where a Great Lakes State or Tribe (as defined in 40 CFR 132.2) fails to adequately incorporate the NPDES permitting implementation procedures promulgated by the State, Tribe, or EPA pursuant to 40 CFR part 132 into individual permits.

(b) [Reserved]
