
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 123 - STATE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart C - Transfer of Information and Permit Review
###### ยง 123.46 Individual control strategies.
####### et seq.

(c) For the purposes of this section the term individual control strategy, as set forth in section 304(l) of the CWA, means a final NPDES permit with supporting documentation showing that effluent limits are consistent with an approved wasteload allocation, or other documentation which shows that applicable water quality standards will be met not later than three years after the individual control strategy is established. Where a State is unable to issue a final permit on or before February 4, 1989, an individual control strategy may be a draft permit with an attached schedule (provided the State meets the schedule for issuing the final permit) indicating that the permit will be issued on or before February 4, 1990. If a point source is subject to section 304(l)(1)(C) of the CWA and is also subject to an on-site response action under sections 104 or 106 of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), (42 U.S.C. 9601), an individual control strategy may be the decision document (which incorporates the applicable or relevant and appropriate requirements under the CWA) prepared under sections 104 or 106 of CERCLA to address the release or threatened release of hazardous substances to the environment.

(d) A petition submitted pursuant to section 304(l)(3) of the CWA must be submitted to the appropriate Regional Administrator. Petitions must identify a waterbody in sufficient detail so that EPA is able to determine the location and boundaries of the waterbody. The petition must also identify the list or lists for which the waterbody qualifies, and the petition must explain why the waterbody satisfies the criteria for listing under CWA section 304(l) and 40 CFR 130.10(d)(6).

(e) If the Regional Administrator disapproves one or more individual control strategies, or if a State fails to provide adequate public notice and an opportunity to comment on the ICSs, then, not later than June 4, 1989, the Regional Administrator shall give a notice of approval or disapproval of the individual control strategies submitted by each State pursuant to this section as follows:

(1) The notice of approval or disapproval given under this paragraph shall include the following:

(i) The name and address of the EPA office that reviews the State's submittals.

(ii) A brief description of the section 304(l) process.

(iii) A list of ICSs disapproved under this section and a finding that the ICSs will not meet all applicable review criteria under this section and section 304(l) of the CWA.

(iv) If the Regional Administrator determines that a State did not provide adequate public notice and an opportunity to comment on the waters, point sources, or ICSs prepared pursuant to section 304(l), or if the Regional Administrator chooses to exercise his or her discretion, a list of the ICSs approved under this section, and a finding that the ICSs satisfy all applicable review criteria.

(v) The location where interested persons may examine EPA's records of approval and disapproval.

(vi) The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the Regional Office from whom interested persons may obtain more information.

(vii) Notice that written petitions or comments are due within 120 days.

(2) The Regional Administrator shall provide the notice of approval or disapproval given under this paragraph to the appropriate State Director. The Regional Administrator shall publish a notice of availability, in a daily or weekly newspaper with State-wide circulation or in the, for the notice of approval or disapproval. The Regional Administrator shall also provide written notice to each discharger identified under section 304(l)(1)(C), that EPA has listed the discharger under section 304(l)(1)(C).

(3) As soon as practicable but not later than June 4, 1990, the Regional Offices shall issue a response to petitions or comments received under section 304(l). The response to comments shall be given in the same manner as the notice described in paragraph (e) of this section except for the following changes:

(i) The lists of ICSs reflecting any changes made pursuant to comments or petitions received.

(ii) A brief description of the subsequent steps in the section 304(l) process.

(f) EPA shall review, and approve or disapprove, the individual control strategies prepared under section 304(l) of the CWA, using the applicable criteria set forth in section 304(l) of the CWA, and in 40 CFR part 122, including ยง 122.44(d). At any time after the Regional Administrator disapproves an ICS (or conditionally aproves a draft permit as an ICS), the Regional Office may submit a written notification to the State that the Regional Office intends to issue the ICS. Upon mailing the notification, and notwithstanding any other regulation, exclusive authority to issue the permit passes to EPA.
