
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 123 - STATE PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
##### Subpart D - Program Approval, Revision, and Withdrawal
###### ยง 123.64 Procedures for withdrawal of State programs.
####### Decision by Administrator.

(8)(i) Within 60 days after the certification of the record and filing of the Presiding Officer's recommeded decision, the Administrator shall review the record before him and issue his own decision.

(ii) If the Administrator concludes that the State has administered the program in conformity with the appropriate Act and regulations his decision shall constitute "final agency action" within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

(iii) If the Administrator concludes that the State has not administered the program in conformity with the appropriate Act and regulations he shall list the deficiencies in the program and provide the State a reasonable time, not to exceed 90 days, to take such appropriate corrective action as the Administrator determines necessary.

(iv) Within the time prescribed by the Administrator the State shall take such appropriate corrective action as required by the Administrator and shall file with the Administrator and all parties a statement certified by the State Director that such appropriate corrective action has been taken.

(v) The Administrator may require a further showing in addition to the certified statement that corrective action has been taken.

(vi) If the State fails to take such appropriate corrective action and file a certified statement thereof within the time prescribed by the Administrator, the Administrator shall issue a supplementary order withdrawing approval of the State program. If the State takes such appropriate corrective action, the Administrator shall issue a supplementary order stating that approval of authority is not withdrawn.

(vii) The Administrator's supplementary order shall constitute final Agency action within the meaning of 5 U.S.C. 704.

(viii) Withdrawal of authorization under this section and the appropriate Act does not relieve any person from complying with the requirements of State law, nor does it affect the validity of actions by the State prior to withdrawal.
