
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart A - General Program Requirements
###### § 124.1 Purpose and scope.

(a) This part contains EPA procedures for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, or terminating all RCRA, UIC, PSD and NPDES "permits" (including "sludge-only" permits issued pursuant to § 122.1(b)(2) of this chapter. The latter kinds of permits are governed by part 270. RCRA interim status and UIC authorization by rule are not "permits" and are covered by specific provisions in parts 144, subpart C, and 270. This part also does not apply to permits issued, modified, revoked and reissued or terminated by the Corps of Engineers. Those procedures are specified in 33 CFR parts 320-327. The procedures of this part also apply to denial of a permit for the active life of a RCRA hazardous waste management facility or unit under § 270.29.

(b) Part 124 is organized into five subparts. Subpart A contains general procedural requirements applicable to all permit programs covered by these provisions. Subparts B through D and Subpart G supplement these general provisions with requirements that apply to only one or more of the programs. Subpart A describes the steps EPA will follow in receiving permit applications, preparing draft permits, issuing public notice, inviting public comment and holding public hearings on draft permits. Subpart A also covers assembling an administrative record, responding to comments, issuing a final permit decision, and allowing for administrative appeal of the final permit decisions. Subpart B contains public participation requirements applicable to all RCRA hazardous waste management facilities. Subpart C contains definitions and specific procedural requirements for PSD permits. Subpart D contains specific procedural requirements for NPDES permits. Subpart G contains specific procedural requirements for RCRA standardized permits, which, in some instances, change how the General Program Requirements of subpart A apply in the context of the RCRA standardized permit.

(c) Part 124 offers an opportunity for public hearings (see § 124.12).

(d) This part is designed to allow permits for a given facility under two or more of the listed programs to be processed separately or together at the choice of the Regional Administrator. This allows EPA to combine the processing of permits only when appropriate, and not necessarily in all cases. The Regional Administrator may consolidate permit processing when the permit applications are submitted, when draft permits are prepared, or when final permit decisions are issued. This part also allows consolidated permits to be subject to a single public hearing under § 124.12. Permit applicants may recommend whether or not their applications should be consolidated in any given case.
