
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart A - General Program Requirements
###### § 124.5 Modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination of permits.
####### Applicable to State programs, see §§ 123.25 (NPDES) of this chapter, 145.11 (UIC) of this chapter, and 271.14 (RCRA) of this chapter.

(d) () (1) If the Director tentatively decides to terminate: A permit under § 144.40 (UIC) of this chapter, a permit under §§ 122.64(a) (NPDES) of this chapter or 270.43 (RCRA) of this chapter (for EPA-issued NPDES permits, only at the request of the permittee), or a permit under § 122.64(b) (NPDES) of this chapter where the permittee objects, he or she shall issue a notice of intent to terminate. A notice of intent to terminate is a type of draft permit which follows the same procedures as any draft permit prepared under § 124.6 of this chapter.

(2) For EPA-issued NPDES or RCRA permits, if the Director tentatively decides to terminate a permit under § 122.64(a) (NPDES) of this chapter, other than at the request of the permittee, or decides to conduct a hearing under section 3008 of RCRA in connection with the termination of a RCRA permit, he or she shall prepare a complaint under 40 CFR 22.13 and 22.44 of this chapter. Such termination of NPDES and RCRA permits shall be subject to the procedures of part 22 of this chapter.

(3) In the case of EPA-issued permits, a notice of intent to terminate or a complaint shall not be issued if the Regional Administrator and the permittee agree to termination in the course of transferring permit responsibility to an approved State under §§ 123.24(b)(1) (NPDES) of this chapter, 145.25(b)(1) (UIC) of this chapter, 271.8(b)(6) (RCRA) of this chapter, or 501.14(b)(1) (sludge) of this chapter. In addition, termination of an NPDES permit for cause pursuant to § 122.64 of this chapter may be accomplished by providing written notice to the permittee, unless the permittee objects.

(e) When EPA is the permitting authority, all draft permits (including notices of intent to terminate) prepared under this section shall be based on the administrative record as defined in § 124.9.
