
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart A - General Program Requirements
###### § 124.5 Modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination of permits.
####### Applicable to State programs, see §§ 123.25 (NPDES), 145.11 (UIC), 233.26 (404), and 271.14 (RCRA).

(a) () Permits (other than PSD permits) may be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated either at the request of any interested person (including the permittee) or upon the Director's initiative. However, permits may only be modified, revoked and reissued, or terminated for the reasons specified in § 122.62 or § 122.64 (NPDES), 144.39 or 144.40 (UIC), 233.14 or 233.15 (404), and 270.41 or 270.43 (RCRA). All requests shall be in writing and shall contain facts or reasons supporting the request.

(b) If the Director decides the request is not justified, he or she shall send the requester a brief written response giving a reason for the decision. Denials of requests for modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination are not subject to public notice, comment, or hearings. Denials by the Regional Administrator may be informally appealed to the Environmental Appeals Board by a letter briefly setting forth the relevant facts. The Environmental Appeals Board may direct the Regional Administrator to begin modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination proceedings under paragraph (c) of this section. The appeal shall be considered denied if the Environmental Appeals Board takes no action on the letter within 60 days after receiving it. This informal appeal is, under 5 U.S.C. 704, a prerequisite to seeking judicial review of EPA action in denying a request for modification, revocation and reissuance, or termination.
