
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart A - General Program Requirements
###### § 124.12 Public hearings.
####### Applicable to State programs, see §§ 123.25 (NPDES), 145.11 (UIC), 233.26 (404), and 271.14 (RCRA).

(a) () (1) The Director shall hold a public hearing whenever he or she finds, on the basis of requests, a significant degree of public interest in a draft permit(s);

(2) The Director may also hold a public hearing at his or her discretion, whenever, for instance, such a hearing might clarify one or more issues involved in the permit decision;

(3) For RCRA permits only, (i) the Director shall hold a public hearing whenever he or she receives written notice of opposition to a draft permit and a request for a hearing within 45 days of public notice under § 124.10(b)(1); (ii) whenever possible the Director shall schedule a hearing under this section at a location convenient to the nearest population center to the proposed facility;

(4) Public notice of the hearing shall be given as specified in § 124.10.

(b) Whenever a public hearing will be held and EPA is the permitting authority, the Regional Administrator shall designate a Presiding Officer for the hearing who shall be responsible for its scheduling and orderly conduct.

(c) Any person may submit oral or written statements and data concerning the draft permit. Reasonable limits may be set upon the time allowed for oral statements, and the submission of statements in writing may be required. The public comment period under § 124.10 shall automatically be extended to the close of any public hearing under this section. The hearing officer may also extend the comment period by so stating at the hearing.

(d) A tape recording or written transcript of the hearing shall be made available to the public.
