
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart A - General Program Requirements
###### ยง 124.10 Public notice of permit actions and public comment period.
####### e.g.,

(A) In lieu of the requirement in paragraphs (c)(1)(ix)(B) and (C) of this section regarding soliciting persons for "area lists" and notifying the public of the opportunity to be on a mailing list, the Director may use generally accepted methods (hyperlink sign-up function or radio button on an agency Web site, sign-up sheet at a public hearing, etc.) that enable interested parties to subscribe to a mailing list. The Director may update the mailing list from time to time by requesting written indication of continued interest from those listed. The Director may delete from the list the name of any person who fails to respond to such a request within a reasonable timeframe.

(B) In lieu of the requirement in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section to publish a notice in a daily or weekly newspaper, the Director shall notify the public by posting the following information, for the duration of the public comment period, on a public Web site identified by the Director: A notice of availability of the draft permit for public comment (or the denial of the permit application), the draft permit, information on how to access the administrative record, and information on how to request and/or attend a public hearing on the draft permit.

(C) In lieu of the requirement in paragraph (d)(1)(vi) of this section to specify a location of the administrative record for the draft permit, the Director may post the administrative record on an identified public Web site.

(iv) For NPDES major permits and NPDES general permits, in lieu of the requirement for publication of a notice in a daily or weekly newspaper, as described in paragraph (c)(2)(i) of this section, the Director may publish all notices of activities described in paragraph (a)(1) of this section to the permitting authority's public website. If the Director selects this option for a draft permit, as defined in ยง 122.2, in addition to meeting the requirements in paragraph (d) of this section, the Director must post the draft permit and fact sheet on the website for the duration of the public comment period.
