
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart A - General Program Requirements
###### § 124.21 Effective date of part 124.

(a) Part 124 of this chapter became effective for all permits except for RCRA permits on July 18, 1980. Part 124 of this chapter became effective for RCRA permits on November 19, 1980.

(b) EPA eliminated the previous requirement for NPDES permits to undergo an evidentiary hearing after permit issuance, and modified the procedures for termination of NPDES and RCRA permits, on June 14, 2000.

(c)(1) For any NPDES permit decision for which a request for evidentiary hearing was granted on or prior to June 13, 2000, the hearing and any subsequent proceedings (including any appeal to the Environmental Appeals Board) shall proceed pursuant to the procedures of this part as in effect on June 13, 2000.

(2) For any NPDES permit decision for which a request for evidentiary hearing was denied on or prior to June 13, 2000, but for which the Board has not yet completed proceedings under § 124.91, the appeal, and any hearing or other proceedings on remand if the Board so orders, shall proceed pursuant to the procedures of this part as in effect on June 13, 2000.

(3) For any NPDES permit decision for which a request for evidentiary hearing was filed on or prior to June 13, 2000 but was neither granted nor denied prior to that date, the Regional Administrator shall, no later than July 14, 2000, notify the requester that the request for evidentiary hearing is being returned without prejudice. Notwithstanding the time limit in § 124.19(a), the requester may file an appeal with the Board, in accordance with the other requirements of § 124.19(a), no later than August 13, 2000.

(4) A party to a proceeding otherwise subject to paragraph (c) (1) or (2) of this section may, no later than June 14, 2000, request that the evidentiary hearing process be suspended. The Regional Administrator shall inquire of all other parties whether they desire the evidentiary hearing to continue. If no party desires the hearing to continue, the Regional Administrator shall return the request for evidentiary hearing in the manner specified in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(d) For any proceeding to terminate an NPDES or RCRA permit commenced on or prior to June 13, 2000, the Regional Administrator shall follow the procedures of § 124.5(d) as in effect on June 13, 2000, and any formal hearing shall follow the procedures of subpart E of this part as in effect on the same date.
