
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart B - Specific Procedures Applicable to RCRA Permits
###### ยง 124.32 Public notice requirements at the application stage.
####### Applicability.

(a)The requirements of this section shall apply to all RCRA part B applications seeking initial permits for hazardous waste management units over which EPA has permit issuance authority. The requirements of this section shall also apply to RCRA part B applications seeking renewal of permits for such units under 40 CFR 270.51. For the purposes of this section only, "hazardous waste management units over which EPA has permit issuance authority" refers to hazardous waste management units for which the State where the units are located has not been authorized to issue RCRA permits pursuant to 40 CFR part 271. The requirements of this section do not apply to hazardous waste units for which facility owners or operators are seeking coverage under a RCRA standardized permit (see 40 CFR part 270, subpart J)). The requirements of this section also do not apply to permit modifications under 40 CFR 270.42 or permit applications submitted for the sole purpose of conducting post-closure activities or post-closure activities and corrective action at a facility.

(b) Notification at application submittal.

(1) The Director shall provide public notice as set forth in ยง 124.10(c)(1)(ix), and notice to appropriate units of State and local government as set forth in ยง 124.10(c)(1)(x), that a part B permit application has been submitted to the Agency and is available for review.

(2) The notice shall be published within a reasonable period of time after the application is received by the Director. The notice must include:

(i) The name and telephone number of the applicant's contact person;

(ii) The name and telephone number of the permitting agency's contact office, and a mailing address to which information, opinions, and inquiries may be directed throughout the permit review process;

(iii) An address to which people can write in order to be put on the facility mailing list;

(iv) The location where copies of the permit application and any supporting documents can be viewed and copied;

(v) A brief description of the facility and proposed operations, including the address or a map (e.g., a sketched or copied street map) of the facility location on the front page of the notice; and

(vi) The date that the application was submitted.

(c) Concurrent with the notice required under ยง 124.32(b) of this subpart, the Director must place the permit application and any supporting documents in a location accessible to the public in the vicinity of the facility or at the permitting agency's office.
