
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart C - Specific Procedures Applicable to PSD Permits
###### ยง 124.42 Additional procedures for PSD permits affecting Class I areas.

(a) The Regional Administrator shall provide notice of any permit application for a proposed major PSD stationary source or major PSD modification the emissions from which would affect a Class I area to the Federal Land Manager, and the Federal official charged with direct responsibility for management of any lands within such area. The Regional Administrator shall provide such notice promptly after receiving the application.

(b) Any demonstration which the Federal Land Manager wishes to present under 40 CFR 52.21(q)(3), and any variances sought by an owner or operator under ยง 52.21(q)(4) shall be submitted in writing, together with any necessary supporting analysis, by the end of the public comment period under ยง 124.10 or ยง 124.118. (40 CFR 52.21(q)(3) provides for denial of a PSD permit to a facility or activity when the Federal Land Manager demonstrates that its emissions would adversely affect a Class I area even though the applicable increments would not be exceeded. 40 CFR 52.21(q)(4) conversely authorizes EPA, with the concurrence of the Federal Land Manager and State responsible, to grant certain variances from the otherwise applicable emission limitations to a facility or activity whose emissions would affect a Class I area.)

(c) Variances authorized by 40 CFR 52.21 (q)(5) through (q)(7) shall be handled as specified in those paragraphs and shall not be subject to this part. Upon receiving appropriate documentation of a variance properly granted under any of these provisions, the Regional Administrator shall enter the variance in the administrative record. Any decisions later made in proceedings under this part concerning that permit shall be consistent with the conditions of that variance.
