
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart D - Specific Procedures Applicable to NPDES Permits
###### § 124.55 Effect of State certification.

(a) When certification is required under CWA section 401(a)(1) no final permit shall be issued:

(1) If certification is denied, or

(2) Unless the final permit incorporates the requirements specified in the certification under § 124.53(e).

(b) If there is a change in the State law or regulation upon which a certification is based, or if a court of competent jurisdiction or appropriate State board or agency stays, vacates, or remands a certification, a State which has issued a certification under § 124.53 may issue a modified certification or notice of waiver and forward it to EPA. If the modified certification is received before final agency action on the permit, the permit shall be consistent with the more stringent conditions which are based upon State law identified in such certification. If the certification or notice of waiver is received after final agency action on the permit, the Regional Administrator may modify the permit on request of the permittee only to the extent necessary to delete any conditions based on a condition in a certification invalidated by a court of competent jurisdiction or by an appropriate State board or agency.

(c) A State may not condition or deny a certification on the grounds that State law allows a less stringent permit condition. The Regional Administrator shall disregard any such certification conditions, and shall consider those conditions or denials as waivers of certification.

(d) A condition in a draft permit may be changed during agency review in any manner consistent with a certification meeting the requirements of § 124.53(e). No such changes shall require EPA to submit the permit to the State for recertification.

(e) Review and appeals of limitations and conditions attributable to State certification shall be made through the applicable procedures of the State and may not be made through the procedures in this part.

(f) Nothing in this section shall affect EPA's obligation to comply with § 122.47. See CWA section 301(b)(1)(C).
