
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart G - Procedures for RCRA Standardized Permit
###### Issuing a Standardized Permit
####### § 124.205 What must I do as the Director of the regulatory agency to prepare a final standardized permit?

As Director of the regulatory agency, you must consider all comments received during the public comment period (see § 124.208) in making your final permit decision. In addition, many requirements in subpart A of this part apply to the public comment period, public hearings, and preparation of your final permit decision. In preparing a final permit decision, the following provisions of subpart A of this part apply (subject to the following modifications):

(a) Section 124.1 Purpose and Scope. All paragraphs.

(b) Section 124.2 Definitions. All paragraphs.

(c) Section 124.11 Public comments and requests for public hearings. This section does not apply to the RCRA standardized permit; the procedures in § 124.208 apply instead.

(d) Section 124.12 Public hearings. Paragraphs (b), (c), and (d) apply.

(e) Section 124.13 Obligation to raise issues and provide information during the public comment period. The entire section applies; however, in the context of the RCRA standardized permit, the reference to the public comment period is § 124.208 instead of § 124.10.

(f) Section124.14 Reopening of the public comment period. All paragraphs apply; however, in the context of the RCRA standardized permit, use the following reference: in § 124.14(b)(1) use reference to § 124.204 instead of § 124.6; in § 124.14(b)(3) use reference to § 124.208 instead of § 124.10; in § 124.14(c) use reference to § 124.207 instead of § 124.10.

(g) Section 124.15 Issuance and effective date of permit. All paragraphs apply, however, in the context of the RCRA standardized permit, the reference to the public comment period is § 124.208 instead of § 124.10.

(h) Section 124.16 Stays of contested permit conditions. All paragraphs apply.

(i) Section 124.17 Response to comments. This section does not apply to the RCRA standardized permit; procedures in § 124.209 apply instead.

(j) Section 124.18 Administrative record for final permit when EPA is the permitting authority. All paragraphs apply, however, use reference to § 124.209 instead of § 124.17.

(k) Seciton124.19 Appeal of RCRA, UIC, NPDES, and PSD permits. All paragraphs apply.

(l) Section 124.20 Computation of time. All paragraphs apply.
