
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart G - Procedures for RCRA Standardized Permit
###### General Information About Standardized Permits
####### ยง 124.200 What is a RCRA standardized permit?

The standardized permit is a special form of RCRA permit, that may consist of two parts: A uniform portion that the Director issues in all cases, and a supplemental portion that the Director issues at his or her discretion. We formally define the term "Standardized permit" in ยง 124.2.

(a) What comprises the uniform portion? The uniform portion of a standardized permit consists of terms and conditions, relevant to the unit(s) you are operating at your facility, that EPA has promulgated in 40 CFR part 267 (Standards for Owners and Operators of Hazardous Waste Facilities Operating under a Standardized Permit). If you intend to operate under the standardized permit, you must comply with these nationally applicable terms and conditions.

(b) What comprises the supplemental portion? The supplemental portion of a standardized permit consists of site-specific terms and conditions, beyond those of the uniform portion, that the Director may impose on your particular facility, as necessary to protect human health and the environment. If the Director issues you a supplemental portion, you must comply with the site-specific terms and conditions it imposes.

(1) When required under ยง 267.101, provisions to implement corrective action will be included in the supplemental portion.

(2) Unless otherwise specified, these supplemental permit terms and conditions apply to your facility in addition to the terms and conditions of the uniform portion of the standardized permit and not in place of any of those terms and conditions.
