
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart G - Procedures for RCRA Standardized Permit
###### Issuing a Standardized Permit
####### § 124.204 What must I do as the Director of the regulatory agency to prepare a draft standardized permit?

(a) You must review the Notice of Intent and supporting information submitted by the facility owner or operator.

(b) You must determine whether the facility is or is not eligible to operate under the standardized permit.

(1) If the facility is eligible for the standardized permit, you must propose terms and conditions, if any, to include in a supplemental portion. If you determine that these terms and conditions are necessary to protect human health and the environment and cannot be imposed, you must tentatively deny coverage under the standardized permit.

(2) If the facility is not eligible for the standardized permit, you must tentatively deny coverage under the standardized permit. Cause for ineligibility may include, but is not limited to, the following:

(i) Failure of owner or operator to submit all the information required under § 270.275.

(ii) Information submitted that is required under § 270.275 is determined to be inadequate.

(iii) Facility does not meet the eligibility requirements (activities are outside the scope of the standardized permit).

(iv) Demonstrated history of significant non-compliance with applicable requirements.

(v) Permit conditions cannot ensure protection of human health and the environment.

(c) You must prepare your draft permit decision within 120 days after receiving the Notice of Intent and supporting documents from a facility owner or operator. Your tentative determination under this section to deny or grant coverage under the standardized permit, including any proposed site-specific conditions in a supplemental portion, constitutes a draft permit decision. You are allowed a one time extension of 30 days to prepare the draft permit decision. When the use of the 30-day extension is anticipated, you should inform the permit applicant during the initial 120-day review period. Reasons for an extension may include, but is not limited to, needing to complete review of submissions with the Notice of Intent (e.g., closure plans, waste analysis plans, for facilities seeking to manage hazardous waste generated off-site).

(d) Many requirements in subpart A of this part apply to processing the standardized permit application and preparing your draft permit decision. For example, your draft permit decision must be accompanied by a statement of basis or fact sheet and must be based on the administrative record. In preparing your draft permit decision, the following provisions of subpart A of this part apply (subject to the following modifications):

(1) Section 124.1 Purpose and Scope. All paragraphs.

(2) Section 124.2 Definitions. All paragraphs.

(3) Section 124.3 Application for a permit. All paragraphs, except paragraphs (c), (d), (f), and (g) of this section apply.

(4) Section 124.4 Consolidation of permit processing. All paragraphs apply; however, in the context of the RCRA standardized permit, the reference to the public comment period is § 124.208 instead of § 124.10.

(5) Section 124.5 Modification, revocation and re-issuance, or termination of permits. Not applicable.

(6) Section 124.6 Draft permits. This section does not apply to the RCRA standardized permit; procedures in this subpart apply instead.

(7) Section 124.7 Statement of basis. The entire section applies.

(8) Section 124.8 Fact sheet. All paragraphs apply; however, in the context of the RCRA standardized permit, the reference to the public comment period is § 124.208 instead of § 124.10.

(9) Section 124.9 Administrative record for draft permits when EPA is the permitting authority. All paragraphs apply; however, in the context of the RCRA standardized permit, the reference to draft permits is § 24.204(c) instead of § 124.6.

(10) Section 124.10 Public notice of permit actions and public comment period. Only §§ 124.10(c)(1)(ix) and (c)(1)(x)(A) apply to the RCRA standardized permit. Most of § 124.10 does not apply to the RCRA standardized permit; §§ 124.207, 124.208, and 124.209 apply instead.
