
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart G - Procedures for RCRA Standardized Permit
###### Opportunities for Public Involvement in the Standardized Permit Process
####### ยง 124.207 What are the requirements for public notices?

(a) You, as the Director, must provide public notice of your draft permit decision and must provide an opportunity for the public to submit comments and request a hearing on that decision. You must provide the public notice to:

(1) The applicant;

(2) Any other agency which you know has issued or is required to issue a RCRA permit for the same facility or activity (including EPA when the draft permit is prepared by the State);

(3) Federal and State agencies with jurisdiction over fish, shellfish, and wildlife resources and over coastal zone management plans, the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation, State Historic Preservation Officers, including any affected States;

(4) To everyone on the facility mailing list developed according to the requirements in ยง 124.10(c)(1)(ix); and

(5) To any units of local government having jurisdiction over the area where the facility is proposed to be located and to each State agency having any authority under State law with respect to the construction or operation of the facility.

(b) You must issue the public notice according to the following methods:

(1) Publication in a daily or weekly major local newspaper of general circulation and broadcast over local radio stations;

(2) When the program is being administered by an approved State, in a manner constituting legal notice to the public under State law; and

(3) Any other method reasonably calculated to give actual notice of the draft permit decision to the persons potentially affected by it, including press releases or any other forum or medium to elicit public participation.

(c) You must include the following information in the public notice:

(1) The name and telephone number of the contact person at the facility.

(2) The name and telephone number of your contact office, and a mailing address to which people may direct comments, information, opinions, or inquiries.

(3) An address to which people may write to be put on the facility mailing list.

(4) The location where people may view and make copies of the draft standardized permit and the Notice of Intent and supporting documents.

(5) A brief description of the facility and proposed operations, including the address or a map (for example, a sketched or copied street map) of the facility location on the front page of the notice.

(6) The date that the facility owner or operator submitted the Notice of Intent and supporting documents.

(d) At the same time that you issue the public notice under this section, you must place the draft standardized permit (including both the uniform portion and the supplemental portion, if any), the Notice of Intent and supporting documents, and the statement of basis or fact sheet in a location accessible to the public in the vicinity of the facility or at your office.
