
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart G - Procedures for RCRA Standardized Permit
###### Opportunities for Public Involvement in the Standardized Permit Process
####### ยง 124.208 What are the opportunities for public comments and hearings on draft permit decisions?

(a) The public notice that you issue under ยง 124.207 must allow at least 45 days for people to submit written comments on your draft permit decision. This time is referred to as the public comment period. You must automatically extend the public comment period to the close of any public hearing under this section. The hearing officer may also extend the comment period by so stating at the hearing.

(b) During the public comment period, any interested person may submit written comments on the draft permit and may request a public hearing. If someone wants to request a public hearing, they must submit their request in writing to you. Their request must state the nature of the issues they propose to raise during the hearing.

(c) You must hold a public hearing whenever you receive a written notice of opposition to a standardized permit and a request for a hearing within the public comment period under paragraph (a) of this section. You may also hold a public hearing at your discretion, whenever, for instance, such a hearing might clarify one or more issues involved in the permit decision.

(d) Whenever possible, you must schedule a hearing under this section at a location convenient to the nearest population center to the facility. You must give public notice of the hearing at least 30 days before the date set for the hearing. (You may give the public notice of the hearing at the same time you provide public notice of the draft permit, and you may combine the two notices.)

(e) You must give public notice of the hearing according to the methods in ยง 124.207(a) and (b). The hearing must be conducted according to the procedures in ยง 124.12(b), (c), and (d).

(f) In their written comments and during the public hearing, if held, interested parties may provide comments on the draft permit decision. These comments may include, but are not limited to, the facility's eligibility for the standardized permit, the tentative supplemental conditions you proposed, and the need for additional supplemental conditions.
