
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 124 - PROCEDURES FOR DECISIONMAKING
##### Subpart G - Procedures for RCRA Standardized Permit
###### Maintaining a Standardized Permit
####### § 124.214 What procedures must I follow to make significant changes?

(a) You must first provide notice of and conduct a public meeting.

(1) Public Meeting. You must hold a meeting with the public to solicit questions from the community and inform the community of your proposed modifications to your hazardous waste management activities. You must post a sign-in sheet or otherwise provide a voluntary opportunity for people attending the meeting to provide their names and addresses.

(2) Public Notice. At least 30 days before you plan to hold the meeting, you must issue a public notice in accordance with the requirements of § 124.31(d).

(b) After holding the public meeting, you must submit a modification request to the Director that:

(1) Describes the exact change(s) you want and whether they are changes to information you provided under 40 CFR 270.275 or to terms and conditions in the supplemental portion of your standardized permit;

(2) Explain why the modification is needed; and

(3) Includes a summary of the public meeting under paragraph (a) of this section, along with the list of attendees and their addresses and copies of any written comments or materials they submitted at the meeting.

(c) Once the Director receives your modification request, he or she must make a tentative determination within 120 days to approve or disapprove your request. You are allowed a one time extension of 30 days to prepare the draft permit decision. When the use of the 30-day extension is anticipated, you should inform the permit applicant during the initial 120-day review period.

(d) After the Director makes this tentative determination, the procedures in § 124.205 and §§ 124.207 through 124.210 for processing an initial request for coverage under the standardized permit apply to making the final determination on the modification request.
