
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart G - Criteria for Modifying the Secondary Treatment Requirements Under Section 301(h) of the Clean Water Act
###### § 125.59 General.
####### Revisions to Applications.

(2)(i) Applicants desiring to revise their applications under § 125.59 (d)(1) or (d)(2) must:

(A) Submit to the appropriate Regional Administrator a letter of intent to revise their application either within 45 days of the date of EPA's tentative decision on their original application or within 45 days of November 26, 1982, whichever is later. Following receipt by EPA of a letter of intent, further EPA proceedings on the tentative decision under 40 CFR part 124 will be stayed.

(B) Submit the revised application as described for new applications in § 125.59(f)(1) either within one year of the date of EPA's tentative decision on their original application or within one year of November 26, 1982, if a tentative decision has already been made, whichever is later.

(ii) Applicants desiring to revise their applications under § 125.59(d)(3) must submit the revised application as described for new applications in § 125.59(f)(1) concurrent with submission of the additional information under § 125.59(g).

(3) Deadline for additional information to demonstrate compliance with §§ 125.60 and 125.65.

(i) A letter of intent required under § 125.59(e)(1) must be submitted by the following dates: for permittees with 301(h) modifications or for applicants to which a tentative or final decision has been issued, November 7, 1994; for all others, within 90 days after the Administrator issues a tentative decision on an application. Following receipt by EPA of a letter of intent containing the information required in § 125.59(e)(1), further EPA proceedings on the tentative decision under 40 CFR part 124 will be stayed.

(ii) The project plan submitted under § 125.59(e)(1) shall ensure that the applicant meets all the requirements of §§ 125.60 and 125.65 by the following deadlines:

(A) By August 9, 1996 for applicants that are not grandfathered under § 125.59(j).

(B) At the time of permit renewal or by August 9, 1996, whichever is later, for applicants that are grandfathered under § 125.59(j).
