
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart G - Criteria for Modifying the Secondary Treatment Requirements Under Section 301(h) of the Clean Water Act
###### § 125.59 General.
####### Revisions to applications.

(d)(1) POTWs which submitted applications in accordance with the June 15, 1979, regulations (44 FR 34784) may revise their applications one time following a tentative decision to propose changes to treatment levels and/or outfall and diffuser location and design in accordance with § 125.59(f)(2)(i); and

(2) Other applicants may revise their applications one time following a tentative decision to propose changes to treatment levels and/or outfall and diffuser location and design in accordance with § 125.59(f)(2)(i). Revisions by such applicants which propose downgrading treatment levels and/or outfall and diffuser location and design must be justified on the basis of substantial changes in circumstances beyond the applicant's control since the time of application submission.

(3) Applicants authorized or requested to submit additional information under § 125.59(g) may submit a revised application in accordance with § 125.59(f)(2)(ii) where such additional information supports changes in proposed treatment levels and/or outfall location and diffuser design. The opportunity for such revision shall be in addition to the one-time revision allowed under § 125.59(d) (1) and (2).

(4) POTWs which revise their applications must:

(i) Modify their NPDES form and Application Questionnaire as needed to ensure that the information filed with their application is correct and complete;

(ii) Provide additional analysis and data as needed to demonstrate compliance with this subpart;

(iii) Obtain new State determinations under §§ 125.61(b)(2) and 125.64(b); and

(iv) Provide the certification described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(5) Applications for permit renewal may not be revised.
