
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart G - Criteria for Modifying the Secondary Treatment Requirements Under Section 301(h) of the Clean Water Act
###### § 125.59 General.
####### Submittal of additional information to demonstrate compliance with §§ 125.60 and 125.65.

(e)(1) On or before the deadline established in paragraph (f)(3) of this section, applicants shall submit a letter of intent to demonstrate compliance with §§ 125.60 and 125.65. The letter of intent is subject to approval by the Administrator based on the requirements of this paragraph and paragraph (f)(3) of this section. The letter of intent shall consist of the following:

(i) For compliance with § 125.60: (A) A description of the proposed treatment system which upgrades treatment to satisfy the requirements of § 125.60.

(B) A project plan, including a schedule for data collection and for achieving compliance with § 125.60. The project plan shall include dates for design and construction of necessary facilities, submittal of influent/effluent data, and submittal of any other information necessary to demonstrate compliance with § 125.60. The Administrator will review the project plan and may require revisions prior to authorizing submission of the additional information.

(ii) For compliance with § 125.65: (A) A determination of what approach will be used to achieve compliance with § 125.65.

(B) A project plan for achieving compliance. The project plan shall include any necessary data collection activities, submittal of additional information, and/or development of appropriate pretreatment limits to demonstrate compliance with § 125.65. The Administrator will review the project plan and may require revisions prior to submission of the additional information.

(iii) POTWs which submit additional information must:

(A) Modify their NPDES form and Application Questionnaire as needed to ensure that the information filed with their application is correct and complete;

(B) Obtain new State determinations under §§ 125.61(b)(2) and 125.64(b); and

(C) Provide the certification described in paragraph (c)(3) of this section.

(2) The information required under this paragraph must be submitted in accordance with the schedules in § 125.59(f)(3)(ii). If the applicant does not meet these schedules for compliance, EPA may deny the application on that basis.
