
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart G - Criteria for Modifying the Secondary Treatment Requirements Under Section 301(h) of the Clean Water Act
###### ยง 125.60 Primary or equivalent treatment requirements.

(a) The applicant shall demonstrate that, at the time its modification becomes effective, it will be discharging effluent that has received at least primary or equivalent treatment.

(b) The applicant shall perform monitoring to ensure, based on the monthly average results of the monitoring, that the effluent it discharges has received primary or equivalent treatment.

(c)(1) An applicant may request that the demonstration of compliance with the requirement under paragraph (b) of this section to provide 30 percent removal of BOD be allowed on an averaging basis different from monthly (e.g., quarterly), subject to the demonstrations provided in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (ii) and (iii) of this section. The Administrator may approve such requests if the applicant demonstrates to the Administrator's satisfaction that:

(i) The applicant's POTW is adequately designed and well operated;

(ii) The applicant will be able to meet all requirements under section 301(h) of the CWA and these subpart G regulations with the averaging basis selected; and

(iii) The applicant cannot achieve 30 percent removal on a monthly average basis because of circumstances beyond the applicant's control. Circumstances beyond the applicant's control may include seasonally dilute influent BOD concentrations due to relatively high (although nonexcessive) inflow and infiltration; relatively high soluble to insoluble BOD ratios on a fluctuating basis; or cold climates resulting in cold influent. Circumstances beyond the applicant's control shall not include less concentrated wastewater due to excessive inflow and infiltration (I&I). The determination of whether the less concentrated wastewater is the result of excessive I&I will be based on the definition of excessive I&I in 40 CFR 35.2005(b)(16) plus the additional criterion that inflow is nonexcessive if the total flow to the POTW (i.e., wastewater plus inflow plus infiltration) is less than 275 gallons per capita per day.

(2) In no event shall averaging on a less frequent basis than annually be allowed.
