
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for Existing Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
###### § 125.90 Purpose of this subpart.

(a) This subpart establishes the section 316(b) requirements that apply to cooling water intake structures at existing facilities that are subject to this subpart. These requirements include a number of components. These include standards for minimizing adverse environmental impact associated with the use of cooling water intake structures and required procedures (e.g., permit application requirements, information submission requirements) for establishing the appropriate technology requirements at certain specified facilities as well as monitoring, reporting, and recordkeeping requirements to demonstrate compliance. In combination, these components represent the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact associated with the use of cooling water intake structures at existing facilities. These requirements are to be established and implemented in National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permits issued under the Clean Water Act (CWA).

(b) Cooling water intake structures not subject to requirements under §§ 125.94 through 125.99 or subparts I or N of this part must meet requirements under section 316(b) of the CWA established by the Director on a case-by-case, best professional judgment (BPJ) basis.

(c) Nothing in this subpart shall be construed to preclude or deny the right under section 510 of the CWA of any State or political subdivision of a State or any interstate agency to adopt or enforce any requirement with respect to control or abatement of pollution that is more stringent than required by Federal law.

Note to § 125.90. This regulation does not authorize take, as defined by the Endangered Species Act, 16 U.S.C. 1532(19). The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and National Marine Fisheries Service have determined that any impingement (including entrapment) or entrainment of Federally-listed species constitutes take. Such take may be authorized pursuant to the conditions of a permit issued under 16 U.S.C. 1539(a) or where consistent with an Incidental Take Statement contained in a Biological Opinion pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 1536(o).
