
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for Existing Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
###### ยง 125.94 As an owner or operator of an existing facility, what must I do to comply with this subpart?
####### 0.5 Feet Per Second Through-Screen Actual Velocity.

(3)A facility must operate a cooling water intake structure that has a maximum through-screen intake velocity of 0.5 feet per second. The owner or operator of the facility must submit information to the Director that demonstrates that the maximum intake velocity as water passes through the structural components of a screen measured perpendicular to the screen mesh does not exceed 0.5 feet per second. The maximum velocity must be achieved under all conditions, including during minimum ambient source water surface elevations (based on best professional judgment using hydrological data) and during periods of maximum head loss across the screens or other devices during normal operation of the intake structure. The Director may authorize the owner or operator of the facility to exceed the 0.5 fps velocity at an intake for brief periods for the purpose of maintaining the cooling water intake system, such as backwashing the screen face. If the intake does not have a screen, the maximum intake velocity perpendicular to the opening of the intake must not exceed 0.5 feet per second during minimum ambient source water surface elevations. In addition, you must monitor the velocity at the screen at a minimum frequency of daily. In lieu of velocity monitoring at the screen face, you may calculate the through-screen velocity using water flow, water depth, and the screen open areas; or
