
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for Existing Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
###### § 125.94 As an owner or operator of an existing facility, what must I do to comply with this subpart?
####### Alternative requirements for new units.

(2)The owner or operator of a new unit at an existing facility must demonstrate to the Director that the technologies and operational measures employed will reduce the level of adverse environmental impact from any cooling water intake structure used to supply cooling water to the new unit to a comparable level to that which would be achieved under § 125.94(e)(1). This demonstration must include a showing that the entrainment reduction is equivalent to 90 percent or greater of the reduction that could be achieved through compliance with § 125.94(e)(1). In addition this demonstration must include a showing that the impacts to fish and shellfish, including important forage and predator species, within the watershed will be comparable to those which would result under the requirements of § 125.94(e)(1).

(3) This standard does not apply to:

(i) Process water, gray water, waste water, reclaimed water, or other waters reused as cooling water in lieu of water obtained by marine, estuarine, or freshwater intakes;

(ii) Cooling water used by manufacturing facilities for contact cooling purposes;

(iii) Portions of those water withdrawals for auxiliary plant cooling uses comprising less than two mgd of the facility's flow; and

(iv) Any quantity of emergency back-up water flows.

(4) The owner or operator of a facility must comply with any alternative requirements established by the Director pursuant to § 125.98(b)(7).

(5) For cooling water flows excluded by paragraph (e)(3) of this section, the Director may establish additional BTA standards for impingement mortality and entrainment on a site-specific basis.
