
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for Existing Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
###### § 125.96 Monitoring requirements.
####### Monitoring requirements for new units at existing facilities.

(d)Monitoring is required to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of § 125.94(e).

(1) The Director may establish monitoring requirements for impingement, impingement mortality, and entrainment of the commercial, recreational, and forage base fish and shellfish species identified in the Source Water Baseline Biological Characterization data required by 40 CFR 122.21(r)(4). Monitoring methods used must be consistent with those used for the Source Water Baseline Biological Characterization at 40 CFR 122.21(r)(4). If the Director establishes such monitoring requirements, the frequency of monitoring and specific protocols will be determined by the Director.

(2) If your facility is subject to the requirements of § 125.94(e)(1) or (2), the frequency of flow monitoring and velocity monitoring must be daily and must be representative of normal operating conditions. Flow monitoring must include measuring cooling water withdrawals, make-up water, and blowdown volume. The Director may require additional monitoring necessary to demonstrate compliance with § 125.94(e).

(3) If your facility is subject to the requirements of § 125.94(e)(2), you must monitor to demonstrate achievement of reductions commensurate with a closed-cycle recirculating system. You must monitor entrainable organisms at a proximity to the intake that is representative of the entrainable organisms in the absence of the intake structure. You must also monitor the latent entrainment mortality in front of the intake structure. Mortality after passing the cooling water intake structure must be counted as 100 percent mortality unless you have demonstrated to the approval of the Director that the mortality for each species is less than 100 percent. Monitoring must be representative of the cooling water intake when the structure is in operation. In addition, sufficient samples must be collected to allow for calculation of annual average entrainment levels of all life stages of fish and shellfish. Specific monitoring protocols and frequency of monitoring will be determined by the Director. You must follow the monitoring frequencies identified by the Director for at least two years after the initial permit issuance. After that time, the Director may approve a request for less frequent monitoring in the remaining years of the permit term and when a subsequent permit is reissued. The monitoring must measure the total count of entrainable organisms or density of organisms, unless the Director approves of a different metric for such measurements. In addition, you must monitor the AIF for each intake. The AIF must be measured at the same time as the samples of entrainable organisms are collected. The Director may require additional monitoring necessary to demonstrate compliance with § 125.94(e).

(4) The Director may require additional monitoring for impingement or entrainment at the cooling water intake structure used by a new unit including, but not limited to, the following:

(i) The Director may require additional monitoring if there are changes in operating conditions at the facility or in the source waterbody that warrant a re-examination of the operational conditions identified at 40 CFR 122.21(r).

(ii) The Director may require additional monitoring for species not subject to the BTA requirements for impingement mortality at § 125.95(c). Such monitoring requirements will be determined by the Director on a site-specific basis.
