
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Review of New Sources and Modifications
###### ยง 51.166 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
####### i.e.,

(iii) Notify the public, by advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in each region in which the proposed source would be constructed, of the application, the preliminary determination, the degree of increment consumption that is expected from the source or modification, and of the opportunity for comment at a public hearing as well as through written public comment. Alternatively, these notifications may be made on a public Web site identified by the reviewing authority. However, the reviewing authority's selected notification method (either newspaper or Web site), known as the "consistent noticing method," shall be used for all permits subject to notice under this section and may, when appropriate, be supplemented by other noticing methods on individual permits. If the reviewing authority selects Web site notice as its consistent noticing method, the notice shall be available for the duration of the public comment period and shall include the notice of public comment, the draft permit, information on how to access the administrative record for the draft permit and how to request and/or attend a public hearing on the draft permit.

(iv) Send a copy of the notice of public comment to the applicant, the Administrator and to officials and agencies having cognizance over the location where the proposed construction would occur as follows: Any other State or local air pollution control agencies, the chief executives of the city and county where the source would be located; any comprehensive regional land use planning agency, and any State, Federal Land Manager, or Indian Governing body whose lands may be affected by emissions from the source or modification.

(v) Provide opportunity for a public hearing for interested persons to appear and submit written or oral comments on the air quality impact of the source, alternatives to it, the control technology required, and other appropriate considerations.

(vi) Consider all written comments submitted within a time specified in the notice of public comment and all comments received at any public hearing in making a final decision on the approvability of the application. The reviewing authority shall make all comments available for public inspection at the same physical location or on the same Web site where the reviewing authority made available preconstruction information relating to the proposed source or modification.

(vii) Make a final determination whether construction should be approved, approved with conditions, or disapproved.

(viii) Notify the applicant in writing of the final determination and make such notification available for public inspection at the same location or on the same Web site where the reviewing authority made available preconstruction information and public comments relating to the proposed source or modification.
