
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for Existing Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
###### ยง 125.98 Director requirements.
####### Site-specific entrainment requirements.

(f)The Director must establish site-specific requirements for entrainment after reviewing the information submitted under 40 CFR 122.21(r) and ยง 125.95. These entrainment requirements must reflect the Director's determination of the maximum reduction in entrainment warranted after consideration of factors relevant for determining the best technology available for minimizing adverse environmental impact at each facility. These entrainment requirements may also reflect any control measures to reduce entrainment of Federally-listed threatened and endangered species and designated critical habitat (e.g. prey base). The Director may reject an otherwise available technology as a basis for entrainment requirements if the Director determines there are unacceptable adverse impacts including impingement, entrainment, or other adverse effects to Federally-listed threatened or endangered species or designated critical habitat. Prior to any permit reissuance after July 14, 2018, the Director must review the performance of the facility's installed entrainment technology to determine whether it continues to meet the requirements of ยง 125.94(d).

(1) The Director must provide a written explanation of the proposed entrainment determination in the fact sheet or statement of basis for the proposed permit under 40 CFR 124.7 or 124.8. The written explanation must describe why the Director has rejected any entrainment control technologies or measures that perform better than the selected technologies or measures, and must reflect consideration of all reasonable attempts to mitigate any adverse impacts of otherwise available better performing entrainment technologies.

(2) The proposed determination in the fact sheet or statement of basis must be based on consideration of any additional information required by the Director at ยง 125.98(i) and the following factors listed below. The weight given to each factor is within the Director's discretion based upon the circumstances of each facility.

(i) Numbers and types of organisms entrained, including, specifically, the numbers and species (or lowest taxonomic classification possible) of Federally-listed, threatened and endangered species, and designated critical habitat (e.g., prey base);

(ii) Impact of changes in particulate emissions or other pollutants associated with entrainment technologies;

(iii) Land availability inasmuch as it relates to the feasibility of entrainment technology;

(iv) Remaining useful plant life; and

(v) Quantified and qualitative social benefits and costs of available entrainment technologies when such information on both benefits and costs is of sufficient rigor to make a decision.

(3) The proposed determination in the fact sheet or statement of basis may be based on consideration of the following factors to the extent the applicant submitted information under 40 CFR 122.21(r) on these factors:

(i) Entrainment impacts on the waterbody;

(ii) Thermal discharge impacts;

(iii) Credit for reductions in flow associated with the retirement of units occurring within the ten years preceding October 14, 2014;

(iv) Impacts on the reliability of energy delivery within the immediate area;

(v) Impacts on water consumption; and

(vi) Availability of process water, gray water, waste water, reclaimed water, or other waters of appropriate quantity and quality for reuse as cooling water.

(4) If all technologies considered have social costs not justified by the social benefits, or have unacceptable adverse impacts that cannot be mitigated, the Director may determine that no additional control requirements are necessary beyond what the facility is already doing. The Director may reject an otherwise available technology as a BTA standard for entrainment if the social costs are not justified by the social benefits.
