
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart J - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for Existing Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Clean Water Act
###### ยง 125.98 Director requirements.
####### Ongoing permitting proceedings.

(g)In the case of permit proceedings begun prior to October 14, 2014 whenever the Director has determined that the information already submitted by the owner or operator of the facility is sufficient, the Director may proceed with a determination of BTA standards for impingement mortality and entrainment without requiring the owner or operator of the facility to submit the information required in 40 CFR 122.21(r). The Director's BTA determination may be based on some or all of the factors in paragraphs (f)(2) and (3) of this section and the BTA standards for impingement mortality at ยง 125.95(c). In making the decision on whether to require additional information from the applicant, and what BTA requirements to include in the applicant's permit for impingement mortality and site-specific entrainment, the Director should consider whether any of the information at 40 CFR 122.21(r) is necessary.

(h) The Director must transmit all permit applications for facilities subject to this subpart to the appropriate Field Office of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and/or Regional Office of the National Marine Fisheries Service upon receipt for a 60 day review prior to public notice of the draft or proposed permit. The Director shall provide the public notice and an opportunity to comment as required under 40 CFR 124.10 and must submit a copy of the fact sheet or statement of basis (for EPA-issued permits), the permit application (if any) and the draft permit (if any) to the appropriate Field Office of the. Fish and Wildlife Service and/or Regional Office of the National Marine Fisheries Service. This includes notice of specific cooling water intake structure requirements at ยง 124.10(d)(1)(ix) of this chapter, notice of the draft permit, and any specific information the Director has about threatened or endangered species and critical habitat that are or may be present in the action area, including any proposed control measures and monitoring and reporting requirements for such species and habitat.
