
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 125 - CRITERIA AND STANDARDS FOR THE NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
##### Subpart N - Requirements Applicable to Cooling Water Intake Structures for New Offshore Oil and Gas Extraction Facilities Under Section 316(b) of the Act
###### § 125.139 As the Director, what must I do to comply with the requirements of this subpart?
####### Permit application.

(a)As the Director, you must review materials submitted by the applicant under 40 CFR 122.21(r), § 125.135, and § 125.136 at the time of the initial permit application and before each permit renewal or reissuance.

(1) After receiving the initial permit application from the owner or operator of a new offshore oil and gas extraction facility, the Director must determine applicable standards in § 125.134 or § 125.135 to apply to the new offshore oil and gas extraction facility. In addition, the Director must review materials to determine compliance with the applicable standards.

(2) For each subsequent permit renewal, the Director must review the application materials and monitoring data to determine whether requirements, or additional requirements, for design and construction technologies or operational measures should be included in the permit.

(3) For Track II facilities, the Director may review the information collection proposal plan required by § 125.136(c)(2)(ii). The facility may initiate sampling and data collection activities prior to receiving comment from the Director.
