
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 127 - NPDES ELECTRONIC REPORTING
##### Subpart A - General
###### ยง 127.2 Definitions.
####### Hybrid approach,e.g.,,e.g.,

(g)is a method that the initial recipient [as defined in paragraph (b) of this section] may elect to use for construction stormwater general permit reports [Notices of Intent to discharge (NOIs); Notices of Termination (NOTs); No Exposure Certifications (NOEs); Low Erosivity Waivers (LEWs)] [40 CFR 122.26(b)(15), 122.28 and 122.64] in order to demonstrate compliance with this part. This alternative compliance method allows the initial recipient (the authorized state, tribe, territory or EPA) to use a non-CROMERR electronic submission along with a uniquely matched paper submission, to reflect conditions at construction sites. Specifically, this approach allows the initial recipient to use data capture technologies to collect construction stormwater general permit reports. For example, under this approach the initial recipient may allow construction operators to complete an electronic construction stormwater general permit report, which simultaneously produces a paper copy of the report and electronically transmits a copy of the data from the report to the authorized NPDES program. Under this approach the construction operator must sign and date the paper copy of the construction stormwater general permit report with a "wet-ink" signature and this paper document will be the copy of record. Under this approach the initial recipient must have the ability to definitively and uniquely link the signed and dated paper document with the electronic submission from the facility or entity (use of a unique code or mark on the signed and dated paper document that is also embedded in the electronic submission). Under this approach the initial recipient may also use automated data capture technologies (Optical Character Recognition), which allow construction operators to submit their general permit reports to the initial recipient on paper with a "wet-ink" signature and date in a structured format that allows for easy data importation into the initial recipient's NPDES data system.
