
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 127 - NPDES ELECTRONIC REPORTING
##### Subpart B - Electronic Reporting of NPDES Information From NPDES-Regulated Facilities
###### § 127.15 Waivers from electronic reporting.
####### e.g.,

(1) Permanent waivers are only available to facilities and entities owned or operated by members of religious communities that choose not to use certain modern technologies (computers, electricity). Authorized NPDES programs cannot grant a permanent waiver to an NPDES-regulated entity without first receiving a permanent waiver request from the NPDES-regulated entity.

(2) To apply for a permanent waiver, the owner, operator, or duly authorized representative of the NPDES permittee, facility, and entity subject to this part [see §§ 122.22 of this chapter and 127.1(a)] must submit the information listed in § 127.15(b)(2) to their authorized NPDES program.

(3) An approved permanent waiver is not transferrable.

(4) NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] that have received a permanent waiver must continue to provide the minimum set of NPDES data (as well as other required information in compliance with statutes, regulations, the NPDES permit, another control mechanism, or an enforcement order) in hard-copy format to the authorized NPDES program. The authorized NPDES program must electronically transfer these data to EPA in accordance with subpart C of this part.

(d) Episodic waivers from electronic reporting may be granted by the authorized NPDES program (EPA, or states, territories, and tribes that have received authorization to implement the NPDES program) or the initial recipient, as defined in § 127.2(b), in compliance accordance with this section and § 127.24, to NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)]. The following conditions apply to episodic waivers.

(1) No waiver request from the NPDES permittee, facility or entity is required to obtain an episodic waiver from electronic reporting.

(2) Episodic waivers are not transferrable.

(3) Episodic waivers cannot last more than 60 days.

(4) The authorized NPDES program or initial recipient will decide if the episodic waiver provision allows facilities and entities to delay their electronic submissions or to send hardcopy (paper) submissions. Episodic waivers are only available to facilities and entities in the following circumstances:
