
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 127 - NPDES ELECTRONIC REPORTING
##### Subpart B - Electronic Reporting of NPDES Information From NPDES-Regulated Facilities
###### § 127.15 Waivers from electronic reporting.

(a) NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] must electronically submit the minimum set of NPDES data in compliance with this part, 40 CFR part 3 (including, in all cases, subpart D to part 3), 40 CFR 122.22, and 40 CFR 403.12(l) unless a waiver is granted in compliance with this section and § 127.24.

(b) Temporary waivers from electronic reporting may be granted by the authorized NPDES program (EPA, or states, territories, and tribes that have received authorization to implement the NPDES program), in compliance with this section and § 127.24, to NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)].

(1) Each temporary waiver must not extend beyond five years. However, NPDES-regulated entities may re-apply for a temporary waiver. It is the duty of the owner, operator, or duly authorized representative of the NPDES permittee, facility, and entity subject to this part [see §§ 122.22 of this chapter and 127.1(a)] to re-apply for a new temporary waiver. Authorized NPDES programs cannot grant a temporary waiver to an NPDES-regulated entity without first receiving a temporary waiver request from the NPDES-regulated entity.

(2) To apply for a temporary waiver, the owner, operator, or duly authorized representative of the NPDES permittee, facility, and entity subject to this part [see §§ 122.22 of this chapter and 127.1(a)] must submit the following information to their authorized NPDES program:

(i) Facility name;

(ii) NPDES permit number (if applicable);

(iii) Facility address;

(iv) Name, address and contact information for the owner, operator, or duly authorized facility representative;

(v) Brief written statement regarding the basis for claiming such a temporary waiver; and

(vi) Any other information required by the authorized NPDES program.

(3) The authorized NPDES program will determine whether to grant a temporary waiver. The authorized NPDES program must provide notice to the owner, operator, or duly authorized facility representative submitting a temporary waiver request, in compliance with the requirements of § 127.24.

(4) NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)] that have received a temporary waiver must continue to provide the minimum set of NPDES data (as well as other required information in compliance with statutes, regulations, the NPDES permit, another control mechanism, or an enforcement order) in hard-copy format to the authorized NPDES program. The authorized NPDES program must electronically transfer these data to EPA in accordance with subpart C of this part.

(5) An approved temporary waiver is not transferrable.

(c) Permanent waivers from electronic reporting may be granted by the authorized NPDES program (EPA, or states, territories, and tribes that have received authorization to implement the NPDES program), in compliance accordance with this section and § 127.24, to NPDES permittees, facilities, and entities subject to this part [see § 127.1(a)].
