
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 127 - NPDES ELECTRONIC REPORTING
##### Subpart C - Responsibilities of EPA and States, Tribes, and Territories Authorized to Implement the NPDES Program
###### ยง 127.27 Procedure for determining initial recipient of electronic NPDES information.

(a) An authorized NPDES program must notify EPA by April 19, 2016 if it wishes EPA to be the initial recipient for a particular NPDES data group.

(b) A state, tribe, or territory that seeks authorization to implement an NPDES program after March 21, 2016 must describe if it is requesting to be the initial recipient of electronic NPDES information from NPDES-regulated facilities for specific NPDES data groups. See 40 CFR 123.22(g) and appendix A to this part.

(c) By July 18, 2016, EPA must publish on its Web site and in thea listing of the initial recipients for electronic NPDES information from NPDES-regulated facilities by state, tribe, and territory and by NPDES data group. This listing must identify for NPDES-regulated facilities the initial recipient of their NPDES electronic data submissions and the due date for these NPDES electronic data submissions. EPA must update this listing on its Web site and in theif a state, tribe, or territory gains authorization status to implement an NPDES program and is also approved by EPA to be the initial recipient of NPDES electronic data submissions for that program.

(d) Failure to maintain all the requirements in this part and 40 CFR part 3 must prohibit the state, territory, or tribe from being the initial recipient of electronic NPDES information from NPDES-regulated entities. The following is the process for these determinations:

(1) EPA must make a preliminary determination identifying if an authorized state, tribe, or territory is not complying with the requirements in this part and 40 CFR part 3 to be an initial recipient of electronic NPDES information from NPDES-regulated facilities. EPA must provide to the Director of the authorized NPDES program the rationale for any such preliminary determination and options for correcting these deficiencies. Within 60 days of EPA's preliminary determination, the authorized state, tribe, or territory must fully correct all deficiencies identified by EPA and notify EPA that such corrections have been completed. No response from the Director of the authorized NPDES program must indicate that the state, territory, or tribe agrees to be removed as the initial recipient for that NPDES data group of electronic NPDES information. Within 90 days of the EPA's preliminary determination, EPA must provide to the Director of the authorized NPDES program a final determination whether the state, tribe, or territory is not complying with the requirements in this part and 40 CFR part 3 to be an initial recipient of electronic NPDES information from NPDES-regulated facilities.

(2) EPA must become the initial recipient of electronic NPDES information from NPDES-regulated facilities if the state, tribe, or territory does not consistently maintain electronic data transfers in compliance with this part and 40 CFR part 3.

(3) EPA must update the initial recipient listing described in paragraph (c) of this section and publish this listing on its Web site and in thewhen it provides a final determination described in paragraph (d)(1) of this section to the Director of the authorized NPDES program.

(4) Following any determination of noncompliance made in compliance with paragraph (d)(1) of this section, EPA will work with the Director of the authorized NPDES program to remediate all issues identified by EPA that prevent the authorized NPDES program from being the initial recipient. When the issues identified by EPA are satisfactorily resolved, EPA must update the initial recipient listing in paragraph (c) of this section in order to list the authorized state, tribe, or territory as the initial recipient for the one or more NPDES data groups. EPA will publish this revised initial recipient listing on its Web site and in the.

(e) An authorized NPDES program can initially elect for EPA to be the initial recipient for one or all of the NPDES data groups and then at a later date seek EPA approval to change the initial recipient status for one or all of the NPDES data groups from EPA to the authorized state, tribe, or territory. To make this switch, the authorized state, tribe, or territory will send a request to EPA. This request must identify the specific NPDES data groups for which the state, tribe, or territory would like to be the initial recipient of electronic NPDES information, a description of how its data system will be compliant with this part and 40 CFR part 3, and the date or dates when the state, tribe, or territory will be ready to start receiving this information. After EPA approval of the request, EPA will update the initial recipient list and will publish the revised initial recipient listing on its Web site and in the.

(f) An authorized NPDES program can initially elect to be the initial recipient for one or all of the NPDES data groups and then at a later date request that EPA become the initial recipient for one or all of the NPDES data groups. To make this switch, the authorized state, tribe, or territory will send a request to EPA. After coordination with the state EPA will update the initial recipient list and will publish the revised initial recipient listing on its Web site and in the.
