
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter A - General
#### PART 7 - NONDISCRIMINATION IN PROGRAMS OR ACTIVITIES RECEIVING FEDERAL ASSISTANCE FROM THE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
##### Subpart D - Requirements for Applicants and Recipients
###### ยง 7.85 Recipients.
####### Self-evaluation.

(c)(1) Each recipient must conduct a self-evaluation of its administrative policies and practices, to consider whether such policies and practices may involve handicap discrimination prohibited by this part. When conducting the self-evaluation, the recipient shall consult with interested and involved persons including handicapped persons or organizations representing handicapped persons. The evaluation shall be completed within 18 months after the effective date of this part.

(2) Each recipient employing the equivalent of 15 or more full time employees may be required to complete a written self-evaluation of its compliance under the Age Discrimination Act as part of a compliance review or complaint investigation. This self-evaluation will pertain to any age distinction imposed in its program or activity receiving Federal assistance from EPA. If required, each recipient's self-evaluation shall identify and justify each age distinction imposed by the recipient and each recipient shall take corrective and remedial action whenever a self-evaluation indicates a violation of the Age Discrimination Act.

(d) Preparing compliance information. In preparing compliance information, a recipient must:

(1) [Reserved]

(2) Use the racial classifications set forth in ยง 7.25 in determining categories of race, color or national origin.
