
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 130 - WATER QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### ยง 130.10 State submittals to EPA.
###### America's Clean Water: The States' Nonpoint Source Assessments

(xv) Waters identified as impaired by nonpoint sources in the1985 (Association of State and Interstate Water Pollution Control Administrators (ASIWPCA)) or waters identified as impaired or threatened in a nonpoint source assessment submitted by the state to EPA under section 319 of the Clean Water Act.

(xvi) Surface waters impaired by pollutants from hazardous waste sites on the National Priority List prepared under section 105(8)(A) of CERCLA.

(7) Each state shall provide documentation to the Regional Administrator to support the state's determination to list or not to list waters as required by paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2) and (d)(3) of this section. This documentation shall be submitted to the Regional Administrator together with the lists required by paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section and shall include as a minimum:

(i) A description of the methodology used to develop each list;

(ii) A description of the data and information used to identify waters and sources including a description of the data and information used by the state as required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section;

(iii) A rationale for any decision not to use any one of the categories of existing and readily available data required by paragraph (d)(6) of this section; and

(iv) Any other information requested by the Regional Administrator that is reasonable or necessary to determine the adequacy of a state's lists. Upon request by the Regional Administrator, each state must demonstrate good cause for not including a water or waters on one or more lists. Good cause includes, but is not limited to, more recent or accurate data; more accurate water quality modeling; flaws in the original analysis that led to the water being identified in a category in ยง 130.10(d)(6); or changes in conditions, e.g., new control equipment, or elimination of discharges.

(8) The Regional Administrator shall approve or disapprove each list required by paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section no later than June 4, 1989. The Regional Administrator shall approve each list required under paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section only if it meets the regulatory requirements for listing under paragraphs (d)(1), (d)(2), and (d)(3) of this section and if the state has met all the requirements of paragraphs (d)(6) and (d)(7) of this section.

(9) If a state fails to submit lists in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section or the Regional Administrator does not approve the lists submitted by such state in accordance with this paragraph, then not later than June 4, 1990, the Regional Administrator, in cooperation with such state, shall implement the requirements of CWA section 304(l) (1) and (2) in such state.

(10) If the Regional Administrator disapproves a state's decision with respect to one or more of the waters required under paragraph (d) (1), (2), or (3) of this section, or one or more of the individual control strategies required pursuant to section 304(l)(1)(D), then not later than June 4, 1989, the Regional Administrator shall distribute the notice of approval or disapproval given under this paragraph to the appropriate state Director. The Regional Administrator shall also publish a notice of availability, in a daily or weekly newspaper with state-wide circulation or in the, for the notice of approval or disapproval. The Regional Administrator shall also provide written notice to each discharger identified under section 304(l)(1)(C), that EPA has listed the discharger under section 304(l)(1)(C). The notice of approval and disapproval shall include the following:

(i) The name and address of the EPA office that reviews the state's submittals.

(ii) A brief description of the section 304(l) process.

(iii) A list of waters, point sources and pollutants disapproved under this paragraph.

(iv) If the Regional Administrator determines that a state did not provide adequate public notice and an opportunity to comment on the lists prepared under this section, or if the Regional Administrator chooses to exercise his or her discretion, a list of waters, point sources, or pollutants approved under this paragraph.

(v) The name, address, and telephone number of the person at the Regional Office from whom interested persons may obtain more information.

(vi) Notice that written petitions or comments are due within 120 days.

(11) As soon as practicable, but not later than June 4, 1990, the Regional Office shall issue a response to petitions or comments received under paragraph (d)(10) of this section. Notice shall be given in the same manner as notice described in paragraph (d)(10) of this section, except for the following changes to the notice of approvals and disapprovals:

(i) The lists of waters, point sources and pollutants must reflect any changes made pursuant to comments or petitions received.

(ii) A brief description of the subsequent steps in the section 304(l) process shall be included.
