
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 130 - WATER QUALITY PLANNING AND MANAGEMENT
##### ยง 130.10 State submittals to EPA.
###### applicable standard

(4) For the purposes of listing waters under ยง 130.10(d)(2),means a numeric criterion for a priority pollutant promulgated as part of a state water quality standard. Where a state numeric criterion for a priority pollutant is not promulgated as part of a state water quality standard, for the purposes of listing waters "applicable standard" means the state narrative water quality criterion to control a priority pollutant (e.g., no toxics in toxic amounts) interpreted on a chemical-by-chemical basis by applying a proposed state cirterion, an explicit state policy or regulation, or an EPA national water quality criterion, supplemented with other relevant information.

(5) If a water meets either of the two conditions listed below the water must be listed under ยง 130.10(d)(2) on the grounds that the applicable standard is not achieved or expected to be achieved due entirely or substantially to discharges from point sources.

(i) Existing or additional water quality-based limits on one or more point sources would result in the achievement of an applicable water quality standard for a toxic pollutant; or

(ii) The discharge of a toxic pollutant from one or more point sources, regardless of any nonpoint source contribution of the same pollutant, is sufficient to cause or is expected to cause an excursion above the applicable water quality standard for the toxic pollutant.

(6) Each state shall assemble and evaluate all existing and readily available water quality-related data and information and each state shall develop the lists required by paragraphs (d)(1), (2), and (3) of this section based upon this data and information. At a minimum, all existing and readily available water quality-related data and information includes, but is not limited to, all of the existing and readily available data about the following categories of waters in the state:

(i) Waters where fishing or shellfish bans and/or advisories are currently in effect or are anticipated.

(ii) Waters where there have been repeated fishkills or where abnormalities (cancers, lesions, tumors, etc.) have been observed in fish or other aquatic life during the last ten years.

(iii) Waters where there are restrictions on water sports or recreational contact.

(iv) Waters identified by the state in its most recent state section 305(b) report as either "partially achieving" or "not achieving" designated uses.

(v) Waters identified by the states under section 303(d) of the CWA as waters needing water quality-based controls.

(vi) Waters identified by the state as priority waterbodies. (State Water Quality Management plans often include priority waterbody lists which are those waters that most need water pollution control decisions to achieve water quality standards or goals.)

(vii) Waters where ambient data indicate potential or actual exceedances of water quality criteria due to toxic pollutants from an industry classified as a primary industry in appendix A of 40 CFR part 122.

(viii) Waters for which effluent toxicity test results indicate possible or actual exceedances of state water quality standards, including narrative "free from" water quality criteria or EPA water quality criteria where state criteria are not available.

(ix) Waters with primary industrial major dischargers where dilution analyses indicate exceedances of state narrative or numeric water quality criteria (or EPA water quality criteria where state standards are not available) for toxic pollutants, ammonia, or chlorine. These dilution analyses must be based on estimates of discharge levels derived from effluent guidelines development documents, NPDES permits or permit application data (e.g., Form 2C), Discharge Monitoring Reports (DMRs), or other available information.

(x) Waters with POTW dischargers requiring local pretreatment programs where dilution analyses indicate exceedances of state water quality criteria (or EPA water quality criteria where state water quality criteria are not available) for toxic pollutants, ammonia, or chlorine. These dilution analyses must be based upon data from NPDES permits or permit applications (e.g., Form 2C), Discharge Monitoring Reports (DMRs), or other available information.

(xi) Waters with facilities not included in the previous two categories such as major POTWs, and industrial minor dischargers where dilution analyses indicate exceedances of numeric or narrative state water quality criteria (or EPA water quality criteria where state water quality criteria are not available) for toxic pollutants, ammonia, or chlorine. These dilution analyses must be based upon estimates of discharge levels derived from effluent guideline development documents, NPDES permits or permit application data, Discharge Monitoring Reports (DMRs), or other available information.

(xii) Waters classified for uses that will not support the "fishable/swimmable" goals of the Clean Water Act.

(xiii) Waters where ambient toxicity or adverse water quality conditions have been reported by local, state, EPA or other Federal Agencies, the private sector, public interest groups, or universities. These organizations and groups should be actively solicited for research they may be conducting or reporting. For example, university researchers, the United States Department of Agriculture, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, the United States Geological Survey, and the United States Fish and Wildlife Service are good sources of field data and research.

(xiv) Waters identified by the state as impaired in its most recent Clean Lake Assessments conducted under section 314 of the Clean Water Act.
