
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### § 131.35 Colville Confederated Tribes Indian Reservation.
####### Applicability, Administration and Amendment.

(c)(1) The water quality standards in this section shall be used by the Regional Administrator for establishing any water quality based National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System Permit (NPDES) for point sources on the Colville Confederated Tribes Reservation.

(2) In conjunction with the issuance of section 402 or section 404 permits, the Regional Administrator may designate mixing zones in the waters of the United States on the reservation on a case-by-case basis. The size of such mixing zones and the in-zone water quality in such mixing zones shall be consistent with the applicable procedures and guidelines in EPA's Water Quality Standards Handbook and the Technical Support Document for Water Quality Based Toxics Control.

(3) Amendments to the section at the request of the Tribe shall proceed in the following manner.

(i) The requested amendment shall first be duly approved by the Confederated Tribes of the Colville Reservation (and so certified by the Tribes Legal Counsel) and submitted to the Regional Administrator.

(ii) The requested amendment shall be reviewed by EPA (and by the State of Washington, if the action would affect a boundary water).

(iii) If deemed in compliance with the Clean Water Act, EPA will propose and promulgate an appropriate change to this section.

(4) Amendment of this section at EPA's initiative will follow consultation with the Tribe and other appropriate entities. Such amendments will then follow normal EPA rulemaking procedures.

(5) All other applicable provisions of this part 131 shall apply on the Colville Confederated Tribes Reservation. Special attention should be paid to §§ 131.6, 131.10, 131.11 and 131.20 for any amendment to these standards to be initiated by the Tribe.

(6) All numeric criteria contained in this section apply at all in-stream flow rates greater than or equal to the flow rate calculated as the minimum 7-consecutive day average flow with a recurrence frequency of once in ten years (7Q10); narrative criteria (§ 131.35(e)(3)) apply regardless of flow. The 7Q10 low flow shall be calculated using methods recommended by the U.S. Geological Survey.
