
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.35 Colville Confederated Tribes Indian Reservation.
####### Antidegradation policy.

(2)This antidegradation policy shall be applicable to all surface waters of the Reservation.

(i) Existing in-stream water uses and the level of water quality necessary to protect the existing uses shall be maintained and protected.

(ii) Where the quality of the waters exceeds levels necessary to support propagation of fish, shellfish, and wildlife and recreation in and on the water, that quality shall be maintained and protected unless the Regional Administrator finds, after full satisfaction of the inter-governmental coordination and public participation provisions of the Tribes' continuing planning process, that allowing lower water quality is necessary to accommodate important economic or social development in the area in which the waters are located. In allowing such degradation or lower water quality, the Regional Administrator shall assure water quality adequate to protect existing uses fully. Further, the Regional Administrator shall assure that there shall be achieved the highest statutory and regulatory requirements for all new and existing point sources and all cost-effective and reasonable best management practices for nonpoint source control.

(iii) Where high quality waters are identified as constituting an outstanding national or reservation resource, such as waters within areas designated as unique water quality management areas and waters otherwise of exceptional recreational or ecological significance, and are designated as special resource waters, that water quality shall be maintained and protected.

(iv) In those cases where potential water quality impairment associated with a thermal discharge is involved, this antidegradation policy's implementing method shall be consistent with section 316 of the Clean Water Act.
