
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.35 Colville Confederated Tribes Indian Reservation.
####### General classifications.

(g)General classifications applying to various surface waterbodies not specifically classified under ยง 131.35(h) are as follows:

(1) All surface waters that are tributaries to Class I waters are classified Class I, unless otherwise classified.

(2) Except for those specifically classified otherwise, all lakes with existing average concentrations less than 2000 mg/L TDS and their feeder streams on the Colville Indian Reservation are classified as Lake Class and Class I, respectively.

(3) All lakes on the Colville Indian Reservation with existing average concentrations of TDS equal to or exceeding 2000 mg/L and their feeder streams are classified as Lake Class and Class I respectively unless specifically classified otherwise.

(4) All reservoirs with a mean detention time of greater than 15 days are classified Lake Class.

(5) All reservoirs with a mean detention time of 15 days or less are classified the same as the river section in which they are located.

(6) All reservoirs established on pre-existing lakes are classified as Lake Class.

(7) All wetlands are assigned to the Special Resource Water Class.

(8) All other waters not specifically assigned to a classification of the reservation are classified as Class II.
