
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.36 Toxics criteria for those states not complying with Clean Water Act section 303(c)(2)(B).
####### Application of metals criteria.

(4)(i) For purposes of calculating freshwater aquatic life criteria for metals from the equations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the minimum hardness allowed for use in those equations shall not be less than 25 mg/l, as calcium carbonate, even if the actual ambient hardness is less than 25 mg/l as calcium carbonate. The maximum hardness value for use in those equations shall not exceed 400 mg/l as calcium carbonate, even if the actual ambient hardness is greater than 400 mg/l as calcium carbonate. The same provisions apply for calculating the metals criteria for the comparisons provided for in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.

(ii) The hardness values used shall be consistent with the design discharge conditions established in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for flows and mixing zones.

(iii) Except where otherwise noted, the criteria for metals (compounds #2, #4-# 11, and #13, in paragraph (b) of this section) are expressed as dissolved metal. For purposes of calculating aquatic life criteria for metals from the equations in footnote m. in the criteria matrix in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the equations in paragraphs (b)(2) of this section, the water-effect ratio is computed as a specific pollutant's acute or chronic toxicity values measured in water from the site covered by the standard, divided by the respective acute or chronic toxicity value in laboratory dilution water.
