
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.37 California.
####### Computing fish migration criteria values for San Joaquin River.

(iii)In order to assess annual fish migration criteria values for the San Joaquin River, tagged salmon smolts will be released into the San Joaquin River at Mossdale and captured at Chipps Island, or alternatively released at Mossdale and Port Chicago and recovered from the ocean fishery, using the methodology described in paragraph (a)(2)(iii). An alternative methodology for computing fish migration criteria values can be used so long as the revised methodology is calibrated with the methodology described below so as to maintain the validity of the relative index values. Sufficient releases shall be made each year to provide a statistically reliable estimate of the SJFMC for the year. These criteria will be considered attained when the sum of the differences between the measured experimental value and the stated criteria value (i.e., measured value minus stated value) for each experimental release conducted over a three year period (the current year and the previous two years) shall be greater than or equal to zero.

(A) Fish for release are to be tagged at the hatchery with coded-wire tags, and fin clipped. Approximately 50,000 to 100,000 fish of smolt size (size greater than 75 mm) are released for each survival index estimate, depending on expected mortality. As a control for the ocean recovery survival index, one or two groups per season are released at Benicia or Pt. Chicago. From each upstream release of tagged fish, fish are to be caught over a period of one to two weeks at Chipps Island. Daylight sampling at Chipps Island with a 9.1 by 7.9 m, 3.2 mm cod end, midwater trawl is begun 2 to 3 days after release. When the first fish is caught, full-time trawling 7 days a week should begin. Each day's trawling consists of ten 20 minute tows generally made against the current, and distributed equally across the channel.

(B) The Chipps Island smolt survival index is calculated as:

(C) Recoveries of tagged fish from the ocean salmon fishery two to four years after release are also used to calculate a survival index for each release. Smolt survival indices from ocean recoveries are calculated as:
