
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.38 Establishment of numeric criteria for priority toxic pollutants for the State of California.
####### Application of metals criteria.

(4)(i) For purposes of calculating freshwater aquatic life criteria for metals from the equations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, for waters with a hardness of 400 mg/l or less as calcium carbonate, the actual ambient hardness of the surface water shall be used in those equations. For waters with a hardness of over 400 mg/l as calcium carbonate, a hardness of 400 mg/l as calcium carbonate shall be used with a default Water-Effect Ratio (WER) of 1, or the actual hardness of the ambient surface water shall be used with a WER. The same provisions apply for calculating the metals criteria for the comparisons provided for in paragraph (c)(3)(iii) of this section.

(ii) The hardness values used shall be consistent with the design discharge conditions established in paragraph (c)(2) of this section for design flows and mixing zones.

(iii) The criteria for metals (compounds #1-#13 in the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section) are expressed as dissolved except where otherwise noted. For purposes of calculating aquatic life criteria for metals from the equations in footnote i to the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section and the equations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the water effect ratio is generally computed as a specific pollutant's acute or chronic toxicity value measured in water from the site covered by the standard, divided by the respective acute or chronic toxicity value in laboratory dilution water. To use a water effect ratio other than the default of 1, the WER must be determined as set forth in Interim Guidance on Determination and Use of Water Effect Ratios, U.S. EPA Office of Water, EPA-823-B-94-001, February 1994, or alternatively, other scientifically defensible methods adopted by the State as part of its water quality standards program and approved by EPA. For calculation of criteria using site-specific values for both the hardness and the water effect ratio, the hardness used in the equations in paragraph (b)(2) of this section must be determined as required in paragraph (c)(4)(ii) of this section. Water hardness must be calculated from the measured calcium and magnesium ions present, and the ratio of calcium to magnesium should be approximately the same in standard laboratory toxicity testing water as in the site water.

(d)(1) Except as specified in paragraph (d)(3) of this section, all waters assigned any aquatic life or human health use classifications in the Water Quality Control Plans for the various Basins of the State ("Basin Plans") adopted by the California State Water Resources Control Board ("SWRCB"), except for ocean waters covered by the Water Quality Control Plan for Ocean Waters of California ("Ocean Plan") adopted by the SWRCB with resolution Number 90-27 on March 22, 1990, are subject to the criteria in paragraph (d)(2) of this section, without exception. These criteria apply to waters identified in the Basin Plans. More particularly, these criteria apply to waters identified in the Basin Plan chapters designating beneficial uses for waters within the region. Although the State has adopted several use designations for each of these waters, for purposes of this action, the specific standards to be applied in paragraph (d)(2) of this section are based on the presence in all waters of some aquatic life designation and the presence or absence of the MUN use designation (municipal and domestic supply). (See Basin Plans for more detailed use definitions.)

(2) The criteria from the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply to the water and use classifications defined in paragraph (d)(1) of this section as follows:

(3) Nothing in this section is intended to apply instead of specific criteria, including specific criteria for the San Francisco Bay estuary, promulgated for California in the National Toxics Rule at ยง 131.36.

(4) The human health criteria shall be applied at the State-adopted 10 (-6) risk level.

(5) Nothing in this section applies to waters located in Indian Country.
