
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.38 Establishment of numeric criteria for priority toxic pollutants for the State of California.
####### Applicability.

(c)(1) The criteria in paragraph (b) of this section apply to the State's designated uses cited in paragraph (d) of this section and apply concurrently with any criteria adopted by the State, except when State regulations contain criteria which are more stringent for a particular parameter and use, or except as provided in footnotes p, q, and x to the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section.

(2) The criteria established in this section are subject to the State's general rules of applicability in the same way and to the same extent as are other Federally-adopted and State-adopted numeric toxics criteria when applied to the same use classifications including mixing zones, and low flow values below which numeric standards can be exceeded in flowing fresh waters.

(i) For all waters with mixing zone regulations or implementation procedures, the criteria apply at the appropriate locations within or at the boundary of the mixing zones; otherwise the criteria apply throughout the water body including at the point of discharge into the water body.

(ii) The State shall not use a low flow value below which numeric standards can be exceeded that is less stringent than the flows in Table 4 to paragraph (c)(2) of this section for streams and rivers.

(iii) Table 4 to paragraph (c)(2) of this section:

(iv) If the State does not have such a low flow value below which numeric standards do not apply, then the criteria included in paragraph (d) of this section apply at all flows.

(v) If the CMC short-term averaging period, the CCC four-day averaging period, or once in three-year frequency is inappropriate for a criterion or the site to which a criterion applies, the State may apply to EPA for approval of an alternative averaging period, frequency, and related design flow. The State must submit to EPA the bases for any alternative averaging period, frequency, and related design flow. Before approving any change, EPA will publish for public comment, a document proposing the change.

(3) The freshwater and saltwater aquatic life criteria in the matrix in paragraph (b)(1) of this section apply as follows:

(i) For waters in which the salinity is equal to or less than 1 part per thousand 95% or more of the time, the applicable criteria are the freshwater criteria in Column B;

(ii) For waters in which the salinity is equal to or greater than 10 parts per thousand 95% or more of the time, the applicable criteria are the saltwater criteria in Column C except for selenium in the San Francisco Bay estuary where the applicable criteria are the freshwater criteria in Column B (refer to footnotes p and q to the table in paragraph (b)(1) of this section); and

(iii) For waters in which the salinity is between 1 and 10 parts per thousand as defined in paragraphs (c)(3)(i) and (ii) of this section, the applicable criteria are the more stringent of the freshwater or saltwater criteria. However, the Regional Administrator may approve the use of the alternative freshwater or saltwater criteria if scientifically defensible information and data demonstrate that on a site-specific basis the biology of the water body is dominated by freshwater aquatic life and that freshwater criteria are more appropriate; or conversely, the biology of the water body is dominated by saltwater aquatic life and that saltwater criteria are more appropriate. Before approving any change, EPA will publish for public comment a document proposing the change.
