
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.38 Establishment of numeric criteria for priority toxic pollutants for the State of California.
####### Schedules of compliance.

(e)(1) It is presumed that new and existing point source dischargers will promptly comply with any new or more restrictive water quality-based effluent limitations ("WQBELs") based on the water quality criteria set forth in this section.

(2) When a permit issued on or after May 18, 2000 to a new discharger contains a WQBEL based on water quality criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, the permittee shall comply with such WQBEL upon the commencement of the discharge. A new discharger is defined as any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there is or may be a "discharge of pollutants" (as defined in 40 CFR 122.2) to the State of California's inland surface waters or enclosed bays and estuaries, the construction of which commences after May 18, 2000.

(3) Where an existing discharger reasonably believes that it will be infeasible to promptly comply with a new or more restrictive WQBEL based on the water quality criteria set forth in this section, the discharger may request approval from the permit issuing authority for a schedule of compliance.

(4) A compliance schedule shall require compliance with WQBELs based on water quality criteria set forth in paragraph (b) of this section as soon as possible, taking into account the dischargers' technical ability to achieve compliance with such WQBEL.

(5) If the schedule of compliance exceeds one year from the date of permit issuance, reissuance or modification, the schedule shall set forth interim requirements and dates for their achievement. The dates of completion between each requirement may not exceed one year. If the time necessary for completion of any requirement is more than one year and is not readily divisible into stages for completion, the permit shall require, at a minimum, specified dates for annual submission of progress reports on the status of interim requirements.

(6) In no event shall the permit issuing authority approve a schedule of compliance for a point source discharge which exceeds five years from the date of permit issuance, reissuance, or modification, whichever is sooner. Where shorter schedules of compliance are prescribed or schedules of compliance are prohibited by law, those provisions shall govern.

(7) If a schedule of compliance exceeds the term of a permit, interim permit limits effective during the permit shall be included in the permit and addressed in the permit's fact sheet or statement of basis. The administrative record for the permit shall reflect final permit limits and final compliance dates. Final compliance dates for final permit limits, which do not occur during the term of the permit, must occur within five years from the date of issuance, reissuance or modification of the permit which initiates the compliance schedule. Where shorter schedules of compliance are prescribed or schedules of compliance are prohibited by law, those provisions shall govern.

(8) The provisions in this paragraph (e), Schedules of compliance, shall expire on May 18, 2005.
