
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 131 - WATER QUALITY STANDARDS
##### Subpart D - Federally Promulgated Water Quality Standards
###### ยง 131.42 Antidegradation Implementation Methods for the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
####### Antidegradation Review Procedure.,et seq.

(c)(1) The antidegradation review will commence with the submission of the CWA Section 401 water quality certification request. EQB uses a parameter-by-parameter approach for the implementation of the anti-degradation policy and will review each parameter separately as it evaluates the request for certification. The 401 certification/antidegradation review shall comply with Article 4(B)(3) of the Puerto Rico Environmental Public Policy Act (Law No. 416 of September 22, 2004, as amended (12 LPRA 8001)). Compliance with Article 4(B)(3) shall be conducted in accordance with the Reglamento de la Junta de Calidad Ambiental para el Proceso de Presentaci&#xF3;n, Evaluaci&#xF3;n y Tr&#xE1;mite de Documentos Ambientales (EQB's Environmental Documents Regulation). As part of the evaluation of the Environmental Document an alternatives analysis shall be conducted (12 LPRA 8001(a)(5), EQB's Environmental Documents Regulation, e.g., Rules 211E and 253C), and a public participation period and a public hearing shall be provided (12 LPRA 8001(a), EQB's Environmental Documents Regulation, Rule 254).

(2) In conducting an antidegradation review, EQB will sequentially apply the following steps:

(i) Determine which level of antidegradation applies

(A) Tier 1-Protection of Existing and Designated Uses.

(B) Tier 2-Protection of High Quality Waters.

(C) Tier 3-Protection of ONRWs.

(ii) [Reserved]

(3) Review existing water quality data and other information submitted by the applicant. The applicant shall provide EQB with the information regarding the discharge, as required by the PRWQSR including, but not limited to the following:

(i) A description of the nature of the pollutants to be discharged.

(ii) Treatment technologies applied to the pollutants to be discharged.

(iii) Nature of the applicant's business.

(iv) Daily maximum and average flow to be discharged.

(v) Effluent characterization.

(vi) Effluent limitations requested to be applied to the discharge according to Section 6.11 of the PRWQSR.

(vii) Location of the point of discharge.

(viii) Receiving waterbody name.

(ix) Water quality data of the receiving waterbody.

(x) Receiving waterbody minimum flow (7Q2 and 7Q10) for stream waters.

(xi) Location of water intakes within the waterbody.

(xii) In the event that the proposed discharge will result in the lowering of water quality, data and information demonstrating that the discharge is necessary to accommodate important economic or social development in the area where the receiving waters are located.

(4) Determine if additional information or assessment is necessary to make the decision.

(5) Prepare an intent to issue or deny the 401 water quality certificate and publish a notice in a newspaper of wide circulation in Puerto Rico informing the public of EQB's preliminary decision and granting a public participation period of at least thirty (30) days.

(6) Address the comments received from the interested parties and consider such comments as part of the decision making process.
