
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter C - Air Programs
#### PART 51 - REQUIREMENTS FOR PREPARATION, ADOPTION, AND SUBMITTAL OF IMPLEMENTATION PLANS
##### Subpart I - Review of New Sources and Modifications
###### ยง 51.166 Prevention of significant deterioration of air quality.
####### Contents of the PAL permit.

(7)The plan shall require that the PAL permit contain, at a minimum, the information in paragraphs (w)(7)(i) through (x) of this section.

(i) The PAL pollutant and the applicable source-wide emission limitation in tons per year.

(ii) The PAL permit effective date and the expiration date of the PAL (PAL effective period).

(iii) Specification in the PAL permit that if a major stationary source owner or operator applies to renew a PAL in accordance with paragraph (w)(10) of this section before the end of the PAL effective period, then the PAL shall not expire at the end of the PAL effective period. It shall remain in effect until a revised PAL permit is issued by the reviewing authority.

(iv) A requirement that emission calculations for compliance purposes include emissions from startups, shutdowns and malfunctions.

(v) A requirement that, once the PAL expires, the major stationary source is subject to the requirements of paragraph (w)(9) of this section.

(vi) The calculation procedures that the major stationary source owner or operator shall use to convert the monitoring system data to monthly emissions and annual emissions based on a 12-month rolling total for each month as required by paragraph (w)(3)(i) of this section.

(vii) A requirement that the major stationary source owner or operator monitor all emissions units in accordance with the provisions under paragraph (w)(12) of this section.

(viii) A requirement to retain the records required under paragraph (w)(13) of this section on site. Such records may be retained in an electronic format.

(ix) A requirement to submit the reports required under paragraph (w)(14) of this section by the required deadlines.

(x) Any other requirements that the reviewing authority deems necessary to implement and enforce the PAL.
