
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### ยง 132.6 Application of part 132 requirements in Great Lakes States and Tribes.

(a) Effective September 5, 2000, the requirements of Paragraph C.1 of Procedure 2 in Appendix F of this Part and the requirements of paragraph F.2 of Procedure 5 in appendix F of this Part shall apply to discharges within the Great Lakes System in the State of Indiana.

(b) Effective September 5, 2000, the requirements of Procedure 3 in appendix F of this Part shall apply for purposes of developing total maximum daily loads in the Great Lakes System in the State of Illinois.

(c) Effective September 5, 2000, the requirements of Paragraphs C.1 and D of Procedure 6 in appendix F of this Part shall apply to discharges within the Great Lakes System in the States of Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.

(d) Effective November 6, 2000, ยง 132.4(d)(2) shall apply to waters designated as "Class D" under section 701.9 of Title 6 of the New York State Codes, Rules and Regulations within the Great Lakes System in the State of New York. For purposes of this paragraph, chronic water quality criteria and values for the protection of aquatic life adopted or developed pursuant to ยง 132.4(a) through (c) are the criteria and values adopted or developed by New York State Department of Environmental Conservation (see section 703.5 of Title 6 of the New York State Codes, Rules and Regulations) and approved by EPA under section 303(c) of the Clean Water Act.

(e) Effective November 6, 2000, the criteria for mercury contained in Table 4 of this part shall apply to waters within the Great Lakes System in the State of New York.

(f) Effective December 6, 2000, the chronic aquatic life criterion for endrin in Table 2 of this part shall apply to the waters of the Great Lakes System in the State of Wisconsin designated by Wisconsin as Warm Water Sportfish and Warm Water Forage Fish aquatic life use.

(g) Effective February 5, 2001, the chronic aquatic life criterion for selenium in Table 2 of this part shall apply to the waters of the Great Lakes System in the State of Wisconsin designated by Wisconsin as Limited Forage Fish aquatic life use.

(h) Effective December 6, 2000, the requirements of procedure 3 in appendix F of this part shall apply for purposes of developing total maximum daily loads in the Great Lakes System in the State of Wisconsin.

(i) Effective December 6, 2000, the requirements of paragraphs D and E of procedure 5 in appendix F of this part shall apply to discharges within the Great Lakes System in the State of Wisconsin.

(j) Effective December 6, 2000, the requirements of paragraph D of procedure 6 in appendix F of this part shall apply to discharges within the Great Lakes System in the State of Wisconsin.
