
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix B to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative
###### Laboratory-Measured BCFs.

D.The following procedural and quality assurance requirements shall be met for laboratory-measured BCFs:

1. The test organism shall not be diseased, unhealthy, or adversely affected by the concentration of the chemical.

2. The total concentration of the chemical in the water shall be measured and should be relatively constant during the steady-state time period.

3. The organisms shall be exposed to the chemical using a flow-through or renewal procedure.

4. For organic chemicals, the percent lipid shall be either measured or reliably estimated for the tissue used in the determination of the BCF.

5. For organic chemicals with log Kgreater than four, the concentrations of POC and DOC in the test solution shall be either measured or reliably estimated.

6. Laboratory-measured BCFs should be determined using fish species, but BCFs determined with molluscs and other invertebrates may be used with caution. For example, because invertebrates metabolize some chemicals less efficiently than vertebrates, a baseline BCF determined for such a chemical using invertebrates is expected to be higher than a comparable baseline BCF determined using fish.

7. If laboratory-measured BCFs increase or decrease as the concentration of the chemical increases in the test solutions in a bioconcentration test, the BCF measured at the lowest test concentration that is above concentrations existing in the control water shall be used (i.e., a BCF should be calculated from a control treatment). The concentrations of an inorganic chemical in a bioconcentration test should be greater than normal background levels and greater than levels required for normal nutrition of the test species if the chemical is a micronutrient, but below levels that adversely affect the species. Bioaccumulation of an inorganic chemical might be overestimated if concentrations are at or below normal background levels due to, for example, nutritional requirements of the test organisms.

8. For inorganic and organic chemicals, BCFs shall be used only if they are expressed on a wet weight basis. BCFs reported on a dry weight basis cannot be converted to wet weight unless a conversion factor is measured or reliably estimated for the tissue used in the determination of the BAF.

9. BCFs for organic chemicals may be based on measurement or radioactivity only when the BCF is intended to include metabolites or when there is confidence that there is no interference due to metabolites.

10. The calculation of the BCF must appropriately address growth dilution.

11. Other aspects of the methodology used should be similar to those described by ASTM (1990).
