
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix B to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative
###### Field-Measured BAFs.

B.The following procedural and quality assurance requirements shall be met for field-measured BAFs:

1. The field studies used shall be limited to those conducted in the Great Lakes System with fish at or near the top of the aquatic food chain (i.e., in trophic levels 3 and/or 4).

2. The trophic level of the fish species shall be determined.

3. The site of the field study should not be so unique that the BAF cannot be extrapolated to other locations where the criteria and values will apply.

4. For organic chemicals, the percent lipid shall be either measured or reliably estimated for the tissue used in the determination of the BAF.

5. The concentration of the chemical in the water shall be measured in a way that can be related to particulate organic carbon (POC) and/or dissolved organic carbon (DOC) and should be relatively constant during the steady-state time period.

6. For organic chemicals with log Kgreater than four, the concentrations of POC and DOC in the ambient water shall be either measured or reliably estimated.

7. For inorganic and organic chemicals, BAFs shall be used only if they are expressed on a wet weight basis; BAFs reported on a dry weight basis cannot be converted to wet weight unless a conversion factor is measured or reliably estimated for the tissue used in the determination of the BAF.
