
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix B to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative
###### Octanol-Water Partition Coefficient (K

F.). 1. The value of Kused for an organic chemical shall be determined by giving priority to the experimental and computational techniques used as follows:

Log K<4:

Log K>4:

2. The CLOGP program is a computer program available from Pomona College. A value of Kthat seems to be different from the others should be considered an outlier and not used. The value of Kused for an organic chemical shall be the geometric mean of the available Ks with highest priority or can be calculated from the arithmetic mean of the available log Kwith the highest priority. Because it is an intermediate value in the derivation of a BAF, the value used for the Kof a chemical should not be rounded to fewer than three significant digits and a value for log Kshould not be rounded to fewer than three significant digits after the decimal point.

G. This methodology provides overall guidance for the derivation of BAFs, but it cannot cover all the decisions that must be made in the review and selection of acceptable data. Professional judgment is required throughout the process. A degree of uncertainty is associated with the determination of any BAF, BSAF, BCF or K. The amount of uncertainty in a baseline BAF depends on both the quality of data available and the method used to derive the BAF.

H. Hereinafter in this methodology, the terms BAF, BSAF, BCF and Krefer to ones that are consistent with the procedural and quality assurance requirements given above.

Baseline BAFs shall be derived using the following four methods, which are listed from most preferred to least preferred:

A. A measured baseline BAF for an organic or inorganic chemical derived from a field study of acceptable quality.

B. A predicted baseline BAF for an organic chemical derived using field-measured BSAFs of acceptable quality.

C. A predicted baseline BAF for an organic or inorganic chemical derived from a BCF measured in a laboratory study of acceptable quality and a FCM.

D. A predicted baseline BAF for an organic chemical derived from a Kof acceptable quality and a FCM.

For comparative purposes, baseline BAFs should be derived for each chemical by as many of the four methods as available data allow.
