
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix F to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative Implementation Procedures
###### Wildlife.

2.

a. Wildlife water quality criteria may be modified on a site-specific basis to provide an additional level of protection, pursuant to authority reserved to the States and Tribes under CWA section 510.

b. Less stringent site-specific modifications to wildlife water quality criteria may be developed when a site-specific bioaccumulation factor (BAF) is derived which is lower than the system-wide BAF derived under appendix B of this part. The modification must consider both the mobility of prey organisms and wildlife populations in defining the site for which criteria are developed. In addition, there must be a showing that:

i. Any increased uptake of the toxicant by prey species utilizing the site will not cause adverse effects in wildlife populations; and

ii. Wildlife populations utilizing the site or downstream waters will continue to be fully protected.

c. Any modification to protect endangered or threatened wildlife species required by procedure 1.A of this appendix must consider both the mobility of prey organisms and wildlife populations in defining the site for which criteria are developed, and may be accomplished by using the following recommended method.

i. The methodology presented in appendix D to part 132 is used, substituting appropriate species-specific toxicological, epidemiological, or exposure information, including changes to the BAF;

ii. An interspecies uncertainty factor of 1 should be used where epidemiological data are available for the species in question. If necessary, species-specific exposure parameters can be derived as presented in appendix D of this part;

iii. An intraspecies uncertainty factor (to account for protection of individuals within a wildlife population) should be applied in the denominator of the effect part of the wildlife equation in appendix D of this part in a manner consistent with the other uncertainty factors described in appendix D of this part; and

iv. The resulting wildlife value for the species in question should be compared to the two class-specific wildlife values which were previously calculated, and the lowest of the three shall be selected as the site-specific modification.
