
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix F to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative Implementation Procedures
###### TMDL Allocations.

3.

a. TMDLs shall include WLAs for point sources and load allocations (LAs) for nonpoint sources, including natural background, such that the sum of these allocations is not greater than the loading capacity of the water for the pollutant(s) addressed by the TMDL, minus the sum of a specified margin of safety (MOS) and any capacity reserved for future growth.

b. Nonpoint source LAs shall be based on:

i. Existing pollutant loadings if changes in loadings are not reasonably anticipated to occur;

ii. Increases in pollutant loadings that are reasonably anticipated to occur;

iii. Anticipated decreases in pollutant loadings if such decreased loadings are technically feasible and are reasonably anticipated to occur within a reasonable time period as a result of implementation of best management practices or other load reduction measures. In determining whether anticipated decreases in pollutant loadings are technically feasible and can reasonably be expected to occur within a reasonable period of time, technical and institutional factors shall be considered. These decisions are case-specific and should reflect the particular TMDL under consideration.

c. WLAs. The portion of the loading capacity not assigned to nonpoint sources including background, or to an MOS, or reserved for future growth is allocated to point sources. Upon reissuance, NPDES permits for these point sources must include effluent limitations consistent with WLAs in EPA-approved or EPA-established TMDLs.

d. Monitoring. For LAs established on the basis of subsection b.iii above, monitoring data shall be collected and analyzed in order to validate the TMDL's assumptions, to varify anticipated load reductions, to evaluate the effectiveness of controls being used to implement the TMDL, and to revise the WLAs and LAs as necessary to ensure that water quality standards will be achieved within the time-period established in the TMDL.
