
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix F to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative Implementation Procedures
###### Deriving TMDLs, WLAs, and LAs for Point and Nonpoint Sources: WLAs in the Absence of a TMDL; and Preliminary WLAs for Purposes of Determining the Need for WQBELs for OWGL.

D.This section addresses conditions for deriving TMDLs for Open Waters of the Great Lakes (OWGL), inland lakes and other waters of the Great Lakes System with no appreciable flow relative to their volumes. State and Tribal procedures to derive TMDLs under this section must be consistent with (as protective as) the general conditions in section B of this procedure, CWA section 303(d), existing regulations (40 CFR 130.7), section C of this procedure, and sections D.1. through D.4 below. State and Tribal procedures to derive WLAs calculated in the absence of a TMDL and preliminary WLAs for purposes of determining the need for WQBELs under procedure 5 of appendix F must be consistent with sections B.9, C.1, C3 through C.6, and D. 1 through D.4 of this procedure.

1. Individual point source WLAs and preliminary WLAs for purposes of determining the need for WQBELs under procedure 5 of appendix F shall assume no greater dilution than one part effluent to 10 parts receiving water for implementation of numeric and narrative chronic criteria and values (including, but not limited to human cancer criteria, human cancer values, human noncancer values, human noncancer criteria, wildlife criteria, and chronic aquatic life criteria and values) unless an alternative mixing zone is demonstrated as appropriate in a mixing zone demonstration conducted pursuant to section F of this procedure. In no case shall a mixing zone be granted that exceeds the area where discharge-induced mixing occurs.

2. Appropriate mixing zone assumptions to be used in calculating load allocations for nonpoint sources shall be determined, consistent with applicable State or Tribal requirements, on a case-by-case basis.

3. WLAs and preliminary WLAs based on acute aquatic life criteria or values shall not exceed the Final Acute Value (FAV), unless a mixing zone demonstration is conducted and approved pursuant to section F of this procedure. If mixing zones from two or more proximate sources interact or overlap, the combined effect must be evaluated to ensure that applicable criteria and values will be met in the area where acute mixing zones overlap.

4. In no case shall a mixing zone be granted that would likely jeopardize the continued existence of any endangered or threatened species listed under section 4 of the ESA or result in the destruction or adverse modification of such species' critical habitat.
