
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 132 - WATER QUALITY GUIDANCE FOR THE GREAT LAKES SYSTEM
##### Appendix F to Part 132 - Great Lakes Water Quality Initiative Implementation Procedures
###### Analytical Method and Quantification Level.

B.

1. The permitting authority shall specify in the permit the most sensitive, applicable, analytical method, specified in or approved under 40 CFR part 136, or other appropriate method if one is not available under 40 CFR part 136, to be used to monitor for the presence and amount in an effluent of the pollutant for which the WQBEL is established; and shall specify in accordance with section B.2 of this procedure, the quantification level that can be achieved by use of the specified analytical method.

2. The quantification level shall be the minimum level (ML) specified in or approved under 40 CFR part 136 for the method for that pollutant. If no such ML exists, or if the method is not specified or approved under 40 CFR part 136, the quantification level shall be the lowest quantifiable level practicable. The permitting authority may specify a higher quantification level if the permittee demonstrates that a higher quantification level is appropriate because of effluent-specific matrix interference.

3. The permit shall state that, for the purpose of compliance assessment, the analytical method specified in the permit shall be used to monitor the amount of pollutant in an effluent down to the quantification level, provided that the analyst has complied with the specified quality assurance/quality control procedures in the relevant method.

4. The permitting authority shall use applicable State and Tribal procedures to average and account for monitoring data. The permitting authority may specify in the permit the value to be used to interpret sample values below the quantification level.
