
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### ยง 136.3 Identification of test procedures.
###### www.thermoscientific.com.

(35) Thermo Scientific, 166 Cummings Center, Beverly MA 01915. Telephone: 1-800-225-1480.

(i) Thermo Scientific Orion Method AQ4500, Determination of Turbidity by Nephelometry. Revision 5, March 12, 2009. Table IB, Note 67.

(ii) [Reserved]

(36) 3M Corporation, 3M Center Building 220-9E-10, St. Paul MN 55144-1000.

(i) Organochlorine Pesticides and PCBs in Wastewater Using EmporeDisk" Test Method 3M 0222. Revised October 28, 1994. Table IC, Note 8; Table ID, Note 8.

(ii) [Reserved]

(37) Timberline Instruments, LLC, 1880 South Flatiron Ct., Unit I, Boulder CO 80301.

(i) Timberline Amonia-001, Determination of Inorganic Ammonia by Continuous Flow Gas Diffusion and Conductivity Cell Analysis. June 24, 2011. Table IB, Note 74.

(ii) [Reserved]

(38) U.S. Geological Survey (USGS), U.S. Department of the Interior, Reston, Virginia. Available from USGS Books and Open-File Reports (OFR) Section, Federal Center, Box 25425, Denver, CO 80225.

(i) Colorimetric determination of nitrate plus nitrite in water by enzymatic reduction, automated discrete analyzer methods. U.S. Geological Survey Techniques and Methods, Book 5-Laboratory Analysis, Section B-Methods of the National Water Quality Laboratory, Chapter 8. 2011. Table IB, Note 72.

(ii) Determination of Heat Purgeable and Ambient Purgeable Volatile Organic Compounds in Water by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry. Chapter 12 of Section B, Methods of the National Water Quality Laboratory, of Book 5, Laboratory Analysis. 2016.

(iii) Methods for Determination of Inorganic Substances in Water and Fluvial Sediments, editors, Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the U.S. Geological Survey, Book 5, Chapter A1. 1979. Table IB, Note 8.

(iv) Methods for Determination of Inorganic Substances in Water and Fluvial Sediments, Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the U.S. Geological Survey, Book 5, Chapter A1. 1989. Table IB, Notes 2 and 79.

(v) Methods for the Determination of Organic Substances in Water and Fluvial Sediments. Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the U.S. Geological Survey, Book 5, Chapter A3. 1987. Table IB, Note 24; Table ID, Note 4.

(vi) OFR 76-177, Selected Methods of the U.S. Geological Survey of Analysis of Wastewaters. 1976. Table IE, Note 2.

(vii) OFR 91-519, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Organonitrogen Herbicides in Water by Solid-Phase Extraction and Capillary-Column Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry With Selected-Ion Monitoring. 1992. Table ID, Note 14.

(viii) OFR 92-146, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Total Phosphorus by a Kjeldahl Digestion Method and an Automated Colorimetric Finish That Includes Dialysis. 1992. Table IB, Note 48.

(ix) OFR 93-125, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Inorganic and Organic Constituents in Water and Fluvial Sediments. 1993. Table IB, Note 51 and 80; Table IC, Note 9.

(x) OFR 93-449, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Chromium in Water by Graphite Furnace Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry. 1993. Table IB, Note 46.

(xi) OFR 94-37, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Triazine and Other Nitrogen-containing Compounds by Gas Chromatography with Nitrogen Phosphorus Detectors. 1994. Table ID, Note 9.

(xii) OFR 95-181, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Pesticides in Water by C-18 Solid-Phase Extraction and Capillary-Column Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry With Selected-Ion Monitoring. 1995. Table ID, Note 11.

(xiii) OFR 97-198, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Molybdenum in Water by Graphite Furnace Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometry. 1997. Table IB, Note 47.

(xiv) OFR 97-829, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory- Determination of 86 Volatile Organic Compounds in Water by Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry, Including Detections Less Than Reporting Limits. 1999. Table IC, Note 13.

(xv) OFR 98-165, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Elements in Whole-Water Digests Using Inductively Coupled Plasma-Optical Emission Spectrometry and Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry. 1998. Table IB, Notes 50 and 81.

(xvi) OFR 98-639, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Arsenic and Selenium in Water and Sediment by Graphite Furnace-Atomic Absorption Spectrometry. 1999. Table IB, Note 49.

(xvii) OFR 00-170, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Ammonium Plus Organic Nitrogen by a Kjeldahl Digestion Method and an Automated Photometric Finish that Includes Digest Cleanup by Gas Diffusion. 2000. Table IB, Note 45.

(xviii) Techniques and Methods Book 5-B1, Determination of Elements in Natural-Water, Biota, Sediment and Soil Samples Using Collision/Reaction Cell Inductively Coupled Plasma-Mass Spectrometry. Chapter 1, Section B, Methods of the National Water Quality Laboratory, Book 5, Laboratory Analysis. 2006. Table IB, Note 70.

(xix) U.S. Geological Survey Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations, Book 5, Laboratory Analysis, Chapter A4, Methods for Collection and Analysis of Aquatic Biological and Microbiological Samples. 1989. Table IA, Note 4; Table IH, Note 4.

(xx) Water-Resources Investigation Report 01-4098, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Moderate-Use Pesticides and Selected Degradates in Water by C-18 Solid-Phase Extraction and Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry. 2001. Table ID, Note 13.

(xxi) Water-Resources Investigations Report 01-4132, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Organic Plus Inorganic Mercury in Filtered and Unfiltered Natural Water With Cold Vapor-Atomic Fluorescence Spectrometry. 2001. Table IB, Note 71.

(xxii) Water-Resources Investigation Report 01-4134, Methods of Analysis by the U.S. Geological Survey National Water Quality Laboratory-Determination of Pesticides in Water by Graphitized Carbon-Based Solid-Phase Extraction and High-Performance Liquid Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry. 2001. Table ID, Note 12.

(xxiii) Water Temperature-Influential Factors, Field Measurement and Data Presentation, Techniques of Water-Resources Investigations of the U.S. Geological Survey, Book 1, Chapter D1. 1975. Table IB, Note 32.

(39) Waters Corporation, 34 Maple Street, Milford MA 01757, Telephone: 508-482-2131, Fax: 508-482-3625.

(i) Method D6508, Test Method for Determination of Dissolved Inorganic Anions in Aqueous Matrices Using Capillary Ion Electrophoresis and Chromate Electrolyte. Revision 2, December 2000. Table IB, Note 54.

(ii) [Reserved]

(c) Under certain circumstances, the Director may establish limitations on the discharge of a parameter for which there is no test procedure in this part or in 40 CFR parts 405 through 499. In these instances the test procedure shall be specified by the Director.

(d) Under certain circumstances, the Administrator may approve additional alternate test procedures for nationwide use, upon recommendation by the Alternate Test Procedure Program Coordinator, Washington, DC.

(e) Sample preservation procedures, container materials, and maximum allowable holding times for parameters are cited in Tables IA, IB, IC, ID, IE, IF, IG, and IH are prescribed in Table II. Information in the table takes precedence over information in specific methods or elsewhere. Any person may apply for a change from the prescribed preservation techniques, container materials, and maximum holding times applicable to samples taken from a specific discharge. Applications for such limited use changes may be made by letters to the Regional Alternative Test Procedure (ATP) Program Coordinator or the permitting authority in the Region in which the discharge will occur. Sufficient data should be provided to assure such changes in sample preservation, containers or holding times do not adversely affect the integrity of the sample. The Regional ATP Coordinator or permitting authority will review the application and then notify the applicant and the appropriate State agency of approval or rejection of the use of the alternate test procedure. A decision to approve or deny any request on deviations from the prescribed Table II requirements will be made within 90 days of receipt of the application by the Regional Administrator. An analyst may not modify any sample preservation and/or holding time requirements of an approved method unless the requirements of this section are met.
