
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### ยง 136.6 Method modifications and analytical requirements.
###### Method modifications.,i.e.,,prior,prior

(b)(1) If the underlying chemistry and determinative technique in a modified method are essentially the same as an approved Part 136 method, then the modified method is an equivalent and acceptable alternative to the approved method provided the requirements of this section are met. However, those who develop or use a modification to an approved (Part 136) method must document that the performance of the modified method, in the matrix to which the modified method will be applied, is equivalent to the performance of the approved method. If such a demonstration cannot be made and documented, then the modified method is not an acceptable alternative to the approved method. Supporting documentation must, if applicable, include the routine initial demonstration of capability and ongoing QC including determination of precision and accuracy, detection limits, and matrix spike recoveries. Initial demonstration of capability typically includes analysis of four replicates of a mid-level standard and a method detection limit study. Ongoing quality control typically includes method blanks, mid-level laboratory control samples, and matrix spikes (QC is as specified in the method). The method is considered equivalent if the quality control requirements in the reference method are achieved. Where the laboratory is using a vendor-supplied method, it is the QC criteria in the reference method, not the vendor's method, that must be met to show equivalency. Where a sample preparation step is required (digestion, distillation), QC tests are to be run using standards treated in the same way as the samples. The method user's Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) must clearly document the modifications made to the reference method. Examples of allowed method modifications are listed in this section. If the method user is uncertain whether a method modification is allowed, the Regional ATP Coordinator or Director should be contacted for approvalto implementing the modification. The method user should also complete necessary performance checks to verify that acceptable performance is achieved with the method modificationto analyses of compliance samples.
