
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### Journal of Chromatography, 107,

1. Fine, D.H., Lieb, D., and Rufeh, R. "Principle of Operation of the Thermal Energy Analyzer for the Trace Analysis of Volatile and Non-volatile N-nitroso Compounds,"351 (1975).

2. Fine, D.H., Hoffman, F., Rounbehler, D.P., and Belcher, N.M. "Analysis of N-nitroso Compounds by Combined High Performance Liquid Chromatography and Thermal Energy Analysis," Walker, E.A., Bogovski, P. and Griciute, L., Editors, N-nitroso Compounds-Analysis and Formation, Lyon, International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC Scientific Publications No. 14), pp. 43-50 (1976).

3. 40 CFR part 136, appendix B.

4. "Determination of Nitrosamines in Industrial and Municipal Wastewaters," EPA 600/4-82-016, National Technical Information Service, PB82-199621, Springfield, Virginia 22161, April 1982.

5. ASTM Annual Book of Standards, Part 31, D3694-78. "Standard Practices for Preparation of Sample Containers and for Preservation of Organic Constituents," American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia.

6. Buglass, A.J., Challis, B.C., and Osborn, M.R. "Transnitrosation and Decomposition of Nitrosamines," Bogovski, P. and Walker, E.A., Editors, N-nitroso Compounds in the Environment, Lyon, International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC Scientific Publication No. 9), pp. 94-100 (1974).
