
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### m

6.8.6 Surrogate solution-Prepare a solution containing one or more surrogates at a concentration of 2 µg/mL in acetone. Potential surrogates include: dibutyl chlorendate (DBC), tetrachloro--xylene (TCMX), 4,4&#x2032;-dibromobiphenyl, or decachlorobiphenyl. Alternative surrogates and concentrations may be used, provided the laboratory performs all QC tests and meets all QC acceptance criteria with the alternative surrogate(s) as an integral part of this method. If the internal standard calibration technique is used, do not use the internal standard as a surrogate.

6.8.7 DDT and endrin decomposition (breakdown) solution-Prepare a solution containing endrin at a concentration of 50 ng/mL and 4,4'-DDT at a concentration of 100 ng/mL, in isooctane or hexane. A 1-µL injection of this standard will contain 50 picograms (pg) of endrin and 100 pg of DDT. The concentration of the solution may be adjusted by the laboratory to accommodate other injection volumes such that the same masses of the two analytes are introduced into the instrument.

7.1 Establish gas chromatographic operating conditions equivalent to those in Section 5.8.1 and Footnote 2 to Table 3. Alternative temperature program and flow rate conditions may be used. The system may be calibrated using the external standard technique (section 7.5) or the internal standard technique (section 7.6). It is necessary to calibrate the system for the analytes of interest (section 1.4) only.

7.2 Separately inject the mid-level calibration standard for each calibration mixture. Store the retention time on each GC column.

7.3 Injection of calibration solutions-Inject a constant volume in the range of 0.5 to 2.0 µL of each calibration solution into the GC column/detector pairs. An alternative volume (see Section 12.3) may be used provided all requirements in this method are met. Beginning with the lowest level mixture and proceeding to the highest level mixture may limit the risk of carryover from one standard to the next, but other sequences may be used. An instrument blank should be analyzed after the highest standard to demonstrate that there is no carry-over within the system for this calibration range.

7.4 For each analyte, compute, record, and store, as a function of the concentration injected, the retention time and peak area on each column/detector system. If multi-component analytes are to be analyzed, store the retention time and peak area for the three to five exclusive (unique large) peaks for each PCB or technical chlordane. Use four to six peaks for toxaphene.

7.5 External standard calibration.

7.5.1 From the calibration data (Section 7.4), calculate the calibration factor (CF) for each analyte at each concentration according to the following equation:

For multi-component analytes, choose a series of characteristic peaks for each analyte (3 to 5 for each Aroclor, 4 to 6 for toxaphene) and calculate individual calibration factors for each peak. Alternatively, for toxaphene, sum the areas of all of the peaks in the standard chromatogram and use the summed area to determine the calibration factor. (If this alternative is used, the same approach must be used to quantitate the analyte in the samples.)

7.5.2 Calculate the mean (average) and relative standard deviation (RSD) of the calibration factors. If the RSD is less than 20%, linearity through the origin can be assumed and the average CF can be used for calculations. Alternatively, the results can be used to fit a linear or quadratic regression of response, A, vs. concentration C. If used, the regression must be weighted inversely proportional to concentration. The coefficient of determination (R) of the weighted regression must be greater than 0.920. Alternatively, the relative standard error (Reference 10) may be used as an acceptance criterion. As with the RSD, the RSE must be less than 20%. If an RSE less than 20% cannot be achieved for a quadratic regression, system performance is unacceptable and the system must be adjusted and re-calibrated.

7.6 Internal standard calibration.

7.6.1 From the calibration data (Section 7.4), calculate the response factor (RF) for each analyte at each concentration according to the following equation:

7.6.2 Calculate the mean (average) and relative standard deviation (RSD) of the response factors. If the RSD is less than 15%, linearity through the origin can be assumed and the average RF can be used for calculations. Alternatively, the results can be used to prepare a calibration curve of response ratios, A/A, vs. concentration ratios, C/C, for the analyte. A minimum of six concentration levels is required for a non-linear (e.g., quadratic) regression. If used, the regression must be weighted inversely proportional to concentration, and the coefficient of determination of the weighted regression must be greater than 0.920. Alternatively, the relative standard error (Reference 10) may be used as an acceptance criterion. As with the RSD, the RSE must be less than 15%. If an RSE less than 15% cannot be achieved for a quadratic regression, system performance is unacceptable and the system must be adjusted and re-calibrated.
