
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### Journal of the Association of Official Analytical Chemists, 48,

21. Burke, J. A. "Gas Chromatography for Pesticide Residue Analysis; Some Practical Aspects,"1037 (1965).

22. "Method Detection Limit and Analytical Curve Studies EPA Methods 606, 607, and 608," Special letter report for EPA Contract 68-03-2606, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268, June 1980.

23. "EPA Method Study 17 Method 607-Nitrosamines," EPA 600/4-84-051, National Technical Information Service, PB84-207646, Springfield, Virginia 22161, June 1984.

1.1 This method is for determination of organochlorine pesticides and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) in industrial discharges and other environmental samples by gas chromatography (GC) combined with a halogen-specific detector (HSD; e.g., electron capture, electrolytic conductivity), as provided under 40 CFR 136.1. This revision is based on a previous protocol (Reference 1), on the revision promulgated October 26, 1984, on an inter-laboratory method validation study (Reference 2), and on EPA Method 1656 (Reference 16). The analytes that may be qualitatively and quantitatively determined using this method and their CAS Registry numbers are listed in Table 1.

1.2 This method may be extended to determine the analytes listed in Table 2. However, extraction or gas chromatography challenges for some of these analytes may make quantitative determination difficult.

1.3 When this method is used to analyze unfamiliar samples for an analyte listed in Table 1 or Table 2, analyte identification must be supported by at least one additional qualitative technique. This method gives analytical conditions for a second GC column that can be used to confirm and quantify measurements. Additionally, Method 625.1 provides gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer (GC/MS) conditions appropriate for the qualitative confirmation of results for the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2 using the extract produced by this method, and Method 1699 (Reference 18) provides high resolution GC/MS conditions for qualitative confirmation of results using the original sample. When such methods are used to confirm the identifications of the target analytes, the quantitative results should be derived from the procedure with the calibration range and sensitivity that are most appropriate for the intended application.

1.4 The large number of analytes in Tables 1 and 2 makes testing difficult if all analytes are determined simultaneously. Therefore, it is necessary to determine and perform quality control (QC) tests for the "analytes of interest" only. The analytes of interest are those required to be determined by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit, or by a client. If a list of analytes is not specified, the analytes in Table 1 must be determined, at a minimum, and QC testing must be performed for these analytes. The analytes in Table 1 and some of the analytes in Table 2 have been identified as Toxic Pollutants (40 CFR 401.15), expanded to a list of Priority Pollutants (40 CFR part 423, appendix A).

1.5 In this revision to Method 608, Chlordane has been listed as the alpha- and gamma- isomers in Table 1. Reporting may be by the individual isomers, or as the sum of the concentrations of these isomers, as requested or required by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit. Technical Chlordane is listed in Table 2 and may be used in cases where historical reporting has only been the Technical Chlordane. Toxaphene and the PCBs have been moved from Table 1 to Table 2 (Additional Analytes) to distinguish these analytes from the analytes required in quality control tests (Table 1). QC acceptance criteria for Toxaphene and the PCBs have been retained in Table 4 and may continue to be applied if desired, or if these analytes are requested or required by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit. Method 1668C (Reference 17) may be useful for determination of PCBs as individual chlorinated biphenyl congeners, and Method 1699 (Reference 18) may be useful for determination of the pesticides listed in this method. However, at the time of writing of this revision, Methods 1668C and 1699 had not been approved for use at 40 CFR part 136.

1.6 Method detection limits (MDLs; Reference 3) for the analytes in Tables 1 and some of the analytes in Table 2 are listed in those tables. These MDLs were determined in reagent water (Reference 3). Advances in analytical technology, particularly the use of capillary (open-tubular) columns, allowed laboratories to routinely achieve MDLs for the analytes in this method that are 2-10 times lower than those in the version promulgated in 1984. The MDL for an analyte in a specific wastewater may differ from those listed, depending upon the nature of interferences in the sample matrix.

1.6.1 EPA has promulgated this method at 40 CFR part 136 for use in wastewater compliance monitoring under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The data reporting practices described in section 15.6 are focused on such monitoring needs and may not be relevant to other uses of the method.

1.6.2 This method includes "reporting limits" based on EPA's "minimum level" (ML) concept (see the glossary in section 23). Tables 1 and 2 contain MDL values and ML values for many of the analytes.

1.7 The separatory funnel and continuous liquid-liquid sample extraction and concentration steps in this method are essentially the same as those steps in Methods 606, 609, 611, and 612. Thus, a single sample may be extracted to measure the analytes included in the scope of each of these methods. Samples may also be extracted using a disk-based solid-phase extraction (SPE) procedure developed by the 3M Corporation and approved by EPA as an Alternate Test Procedure (ATP) for wastewater analyses in 1995 (Reference 20).

1.8 This method is performance-based. It may be modified to improve performance (e.g., to overcome interferences or improve the accuracy of results) provided all performance requirements are met.

1.8.1 Examples of allowed method modifications are described at 40 CFR 136.6. Other examples of allowed modifications specific to this method are described in section 8.1.2.

1.8.2 Any modification beyond those expressly permitted at 40 CFR 136.6 or in section 8.1.2 of this method shall be considered a major modification subject to application and approval of an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.

1.8.3 For regulatory compliance, any modification must be demonstrated to produce results equivalent or superior to results produced by this method when applied to relevant wastewaters (section 8.1.2).

1.9 This method is restricted to use by or under the supervision of analysts experienced in the use of GC/HSD. The laboratory must demonstrate the ability to generate acceptable results with this method using the procedure in section 8.2.

1.10 Terms and units of measure used in this method are given in the glossary at the end of the method.

2.1 A measured volume of sample, the amount required to meet an MDL or reporting limit (nominally 1-L), is extracted with methylene chloride using a separatory funnel, a continuous liquid/liquid extractor, or disk-based solid-phase extraction equipment. The extract is dried and concentrated for cleanup, if required. After cleanup, or if cleanup is not required, the extract is exchanged into an appropriate solvent and concentrated to the volume necessary to meet the required compliance or detection limit, and analyzed by GC/HSD.

2.2 Qualitative identification of an analyte in the extract is performed using the retention times on dissimilar GC columns. Quantitative analysis is performed using the peak areas or peak heights for the analyte on the dissimilar columns with either the external or internal standard technique.

2.3 Florisil&#xAE;, alumina, a C18 solid-phase cleanup, and an elemental sulfur cleanup procedure are provided to aid in elimination of interferences that may be encountered. Other cleanup procedures may be used if demonstrated to be effective for the analytes in a wastewater matrix.

3.1 Solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing lab ware may yield artifacts, elevated baselines, or matrix interferences causing misinterpretation of chromatograms. All materials used in the analysis must be demonstrated free from contamination and interferences by running blanks initially and with each extraction batch (samples started through the extraction process in a given 24-hour period, to a maximum of 20 samples-see Glossary for detailed definition), as described in section 8.5. Specific selection of reagents and purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required. Where possible, labware is cleaned by extraction or solvent rinse, or baking in a kiln or oven.

3.2 Glassware must be scrupulously cleaned (Reference 4). Clean all glassware as soon as possible after use by rinsing with the last solvent used in it. Solvent rinsing should be followed by detergent washing with hot water, and rinses with tap water and reagent water. The glassware should then be drained dry, and heated at 400 &#xB0;C for 15-30 minutes. Some thermally stable materials, such as PCBs, may require higher temperatures and longer baking times for removal. Solvent rinses with pesticide quality acetone, hexane, or other solvents may be substituted for heating. Do not heat volumetric labware above 90 &#xB0;C. After drying and cooling, store inverted or capped with solvent-rinsed or baked aluminum foil in a clean environment to prevent accumulation of dust or other contaminants.

3.3 Interferences by phthalate esters can pose a major problem in pesticide analysis when using the electron capture detector. The phthalate esters generally appear in the chromatogram as large late eluting peaks, especially in the 15 and 50% fractions from Florisil&#xAE;. Common flexible plastics contain varying amounts of phthalates that may be extracted or leached from such materials during laboratory operations. Cross contamination of clean glassware routinely occurs when plastics are handled during extraction steps, especially when solvent-wetted surfaces are handled. Interferences from phthalates can best be minimized by avoiding use of non-fluoropolymer plastics in the laboratory. Exhaustive cleanup of reagents and glassware may be required to eliminate background phthalate contamination (References 5 and 6). Interferences from phthalate esters can be avoided by using a microcoulometric or electrolytic conductivity detector.

3.4 Matrix interferences may be caused by contaminants co-extracted from the sample. The extent of matrix interferences will vary considerably from source to source, depending upon the nature and diversity of the industrial complex or municipality being sampled. Interferences extracted from samples high in total organic carbon (TOC) may result in elevated baselines, or by enhancing or suppressing a signal at or near the retention time of an analyte of interest. Analyses of the matrix spike and matrix spike duplicate (Section 8.3) may be useful in identifying matrix interferences, and the cleanup procedures in Section 11 may aid in eliminating these interferences. EPA has provided guidance that may aid in overcoming matrix interferences (Reference 7); however, unique samples may require additional cleanup approaches to achieve the MDLs listed in Tables 1 and 2.

4.1 Hazards associated with each reagent used in this method have not been precisely defined; however, each chemical compound should be treated as a potential health hazard. From this viewpoint, exposure to these chemicals must be reduced to the lowest possible level by whatever means available. The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of safety data sheets (SDSs, OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.12009(g)) should also be made available to all personnel involved in sample handling and chemical analysis. Additional references to laboratory safety are available and have been identified (References 8 and 9) for the information of the analyst.

4.2 The following analytes covered by this method have been tentatively classified as known or suspected human or mammalian carcinogens: 4,4&#x2032;-DDT, 4,4&#x2032;-DDD, the BHCs, and the PCBs. Primary standards of these toxic analytes should be prepared in a chemical fume hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when high concentrations are handled.

4.3 This method allows the use of hydrogen as a carrier gas in place of helium (section 5.8.2). The laboratory should take the necessary precautions in dealing with hydrogen, and should limit hydrogen flow at the source to prevent buildup of an explosive mixture of hydrogen in air.

5.1 Sampling equipment, for discrete or composite sampling.

5.1.1 Grab sample bottle-Amber glass bottle large enough to contain the necessary sample volume (nominally 1 L), fitted with a fluoropolymer-lined screw cap. Foil may be substituted for fluoropolymer if the sample is not corrosive. If amber bottles are not available, protect samples from light. Unless pre-cleaned, the bottle and cap liner must be washed, rinsed with acetone or methylene chloride, and dried before use to minimize contamination.

5.1.2 Automatic sampler (optional)-The sampler must use a glass or fluoropolymer container and tubing for sample collection. If the sampler uses a peristaltic pump, a minimum length of compressible silicone rubber tubing may be used. Before use, rinse the compressible tubing thoroughly with methanol, followed by repeated rinsing with reagent water to minimize the potential for sample contamination. An integrating flow meter is required to collect flow proportional composites. The sample container must be kept refrigerated at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C and protected from light during compositing.

5.2. Lab ware.

5.2.1 Extraction.

5.2.1.1 pH measurement.

5.2.1.1.1 pH meter, with combination glass electrode.

5.2.1.1.2 pH paper, wide range (Hydrion Papers, or equivalent).

5.2.1.2 Separatory funnel-Size appropriate to hold the sample and extraction solvent volumes, equipped with fluoropolymer stopcock.

5.2.1.3 Continuous liquid-liquid extractor-Equipped with fluoropolymer or glass connecting joints and stopcocks requiring no lubrication. (Hershberg-Wolf Extractor, Ace Glass Company, Vineland, NJ, or equivalent.)

5.2.1.3.1 Round-bottom flask, 500-mL, with heating mantle.

5.2.1.3.2 Condenser, Graham, to fit extractor.

5.2.1.4 Solid-phase extractor-90-mm filter apparatus (Figure 2) or multi-position manifold.

5.2.1.4.1 Vacuum system-Capable of achieving 0.1 bar (25 inch) Hg (house vacuum, vacuum pump, or water aspirator), equipped with shutoff valve and vacuum gauge.

5.2.1.4.2 Vacuum trap-Made from 500-mL sidearm flask fitted with single-hole rubber stopper and glass tubing.

5.2.2 Filtration.

5.2.2.1 Glass powder funnel, 125- to 250-mL.

5.2.2.2 Filter paper for above, Whatman 41, or equivalent.

5.2.2.3 Prefiltering aids-90-mm 1-µm glass fiber filter or Empore&#xAE; Filter Aid 400.

5.2.3 Drying column.

5.2.3.1 Chromatographic column-Approximately 400 mm long x 15 mm ID, with fluoropolymer stopcock and coarse frit filter disc (Kontes or equivalent).

5.2.3.2 Glass wool-Pyrex, extracted with methylene chloride or baked at 450 &#xB0;C for 1 hour minimum.

5.2.4 Column for Florisil&#xAE; or alumina cleanup-Approximately 300 mm long x 10 mm ID, with fluoropolymer stopcock. (This column is not required if cartridges containing Florisil&#xAE; are used.)

5.2.5 Concentration/evaporation.

5.2.5.1 Kuderna-Danish concentrator.

5.2.5.1.1 Concentrator tube, Kuderna-Danish-10-mL, graduated (Kontes or equivalent). Calibration must be checked at the volumes employed for extract volume measurement. A ground-glass stopper is used to prevent evaporation of extracts.

5.2.5.1.2 Evaporative flask, Kuderna-Danish-500-mL (Kontes or equivalent). Attach to concentrator tube with connectors.

5.2.5.1.3 Snyder column, Kuderna/Danish-Three-ball macro (Kontes or equivalent).

5.2.5.1.4 Snyder column-Two-ball micro (Kontes or equivalent).

5.2.5.1.5 Water bath-Heated, with concentric ring cover, capable of temperature control (+/-2 &#xB0;C), installed in a hood using appropriate engineering controls to limit exposure to solvent vapors.

5.2.5.2 Nitrogen evaporation device-Equipped with heated bath that can be maintained at an appropriate temperature for the solvent and analytes. (N-Evap, Organomation Associates, Inc., or equivalent).

5.2.5.3 Rotary evaporator-Buchi/Brinkman-American Scientific or equivalent, equipped with a variable temperature water bath, vacuum source with shutoff valve at the evaporator, and vacuum gauge.

5.2.5.3.1 A recirculating water pump and chiller are recommended, as use of tap water for cooling the evaporator wastes large volumes of water and can lead to inconsistent performance as water temperatures and pressures vary.

5.2.5.3.2 Round-bottom flask-100-mL and 500-mL or larger, with ground-glass fitting compatible with the rotary evaporator

5.2.5.4 Automated concentrator-Equipped with glassware sufficient to concentrate 3-400 mL extract to a final volume of 1-10 mL under controlled conditions of temperature and nitrogen flow (Turbovap, or equivalent). Follow manufacturer's directions and requirements.

5.2.5.5 Boiling chips-Glass, silicon carbide, or equivalent, approximately 10/40 mesh. Heat at 400 &#xB0;C for 30 minutes, or solvent rinse or Soxhlet extract with methylene chloride.

5.2.6 Solid-phase extraction disks-90-mm extraction disks containing 2 g of 8-µm octadecyl (C18) bonded silica uniformly enmeshed in a matrix of inert PTFE fibrils (3M Empore&#xAE; or equivalent). The disks should not contain any organic compounds, either from the PTFE or the bonded silica, which will leach into the methylene chloride eluant. One liter of reagent water should pass through the disks in 2-5 minutes, using a vacuum of at least 25 inches of mercury.

5.3 Vials.

5.3.1 Extract storage-10- to 15-mL, amber glass, with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap.

5.3.2 GC autosampler-1- to 5-mL, amber glass, with fluoropolymer-lined screw- or crimp-cap, to fit GC autosampler.

5.4 Balances.

5.4.1 Analytical-Capable of accurately weighing 0.1 mg.

5.4.2 Top loading-Capable of weighing 10 mg.

5.5 Sample cleanup.

5.5.1 Oven-For baking and storage of adsorbents, capable of maintaining a constant temperature (+/-5 &#xB0;C) in the range of 105-250 &#xB0;C.

5.5.2 Muffle furnace-Capable of cleaning glassware or baking sodium sulfate in the range of 400-450 &#xB0;C.

5.5.3 Vacuum system and cartridges for solid-phase cleanup (see Section 11.2).

5.5.3.1 Vacuum system-Capable of achieving 0.1 bar (25 in.) Hg (house vacuum, vacuum pump, or water aspirator), equipped with shutoff valve and vacuum gauge.

5.5.3.2 VacElute Manifold (Analytichem International, or equivalent).

5.5.3.3 Vacuum trap-Made from 500-mL sidearm flask fitted with single-hole rubber stopper and glass tubing.

5.5.3.4 Rack for holding 50-mL volumetric flasks in the manifold.

5.5.3.5 Cartridge-Mega Bond Elute, Non-polar, C18 Octadecyl, 10 g/60 mL (Analytichem International or equivalent), used for solid-phase cleanup of sample extracts (see Section 11.2).

5.5.4 Sulfur removal tube-40- to 50-mL bottle, test tube, or Erlenmeyer flask with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap.

5.6 Centrifuge apparatus.

5.6.1 Centrifuge-Capable of rotating 500-mL centrifuge bottles or 15-mL centrifuge tubes at 5,000 rpm minimum.

5.6.2 Centrifuge bottle-500-mL, with screw cap, to fit centrifuge.

5.6.3 Centrifuge tube-15-mL, with screw cap, to fit centrifuge.

5.7 Miscellaneous lab ware-Graduated cylinders, pipettes, beakers, volumetric flasks, vials, syringes, and other lab ware necessary to support the operations in this method.

5.8 Gas chromatograph-Dual-column with simultaneous split/splitless, temperature programmable split/splitless (PTV), or on-column injection; temperature program with isothermal holds, and all required accessories including syringes, analytical columns, gases, and detectors. An autosampler is highly recommended because it injects volumes more reproducibly than manual injection techniques. Alternatively, two separate single-column gas chromatographic systems may be employed.

5.8.1 Example columns and operating conditions.

5.8.1.1 DB-608 (or equivalent), 30-m long x 0.53-mm ID fused-silica capillary, 0.83-µm film thickness.

5.8.1.2 DB-1701 (or equivalent), 30-m long x 0.53-mm ID fused-silica capillary, 1.0-µm film thickness.

5.8.1.3 Suggested operating conditions used to meet the retention times shown in Table 3 are:

(a) Carrier gas flow rate: Approximately 7 mL/min,

(b) Initial temperature: 150 &#xB0;C for 0.5 minute,

(c) Temperature program: 150-270 &#xB0;C at 5 &#xB0;C/min, and
