
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### trans

(d) Final temperature: 270 &#xB0;C, until-Permethrin elutes.

5.8.2 Carrier gas-Helium or hydrogen. Data in the tables in this method were obtained using helium carrier gas. If hydrogen is used, analytical conditions may need to be adjusted for optimum performance, and calibration and all QC tests must be performed with hydrogen carrier gas. See Section 4.3 for precautions regarding the use of hydrogen as a carrier gas.

5.8.3 Detector-Halogen-specific detector (electron capture detector [ECD], electrolytic conductivity detector [ELCD], or equivalent). The ECD has proven effective in the analysis of wastewaters for the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2, and was used to develop the method performance data in Section 17 and Tables 4 and 5.

5.8.4 Data system-A computer system must be interfaced to the GC that allows continuous acquisition and storage of data from the detectors throughout the chromatographic program. The computer must have software that allows searching GC data for specific analytes, and for plotting responses versus time. Software must also be available that allows integrating peak areas or peak heights in selected retention time windows and calculating concentrations of the analytes.

6.1 pH adjustment.

6.1.1 Sodium hydroxide solutions.

6.1.1.1 Concentrated (10 M)-Dissolve 40 g of NaOH (ACS) in reagent water and dilute to 100 mL.

6.1.1.2 Dilute (1 M)-Dissolve 40 g NaOH in 1 L of reagent water.

6.1.2 Sulfuric acid (1+1)-Slowly add 50 mL of HSO(ACS, sp. gr. 1.84) to 50 mL of reagent water.

6.1.3 Hydrochloric acid-Reagent grade, 6 N.

6.2 Sodium thiosulfate-(ACS) granular.

6.3 Sodium sulfate-Sodium sulfate, reagent grade, granular anhydrous (Baker or equivalent), rinsed with methylene chloride, baked in a shallow tray at 450 &#xB0;C for 1 hour minimum, cooled in a desiccator, and stored in a pre-cleaned glass bottle with screw cap which prevents moisture from entering. If, after heating, the sodium sulfate develops a noticeable grayish cast (due to the presence of carbon in the crystal matrix), that batch of reagent is not suitable for use and should be discarded. Extraction with methylene chloride (as opposed to simple rinsing) and baking at a lower temperature may produce sodium sulfate suitable for use.

6.4 Reagent water-Reagent water is defined as water in which the analytes of interest and interfering compounds are not observed at the MDLs of the analytes in this method.

6.5 Solvents-Methylene chloride, acetone, methanol, hexane, acetonitrile, and isooctane, high purity pesticide quality, or equivalent, demonstrated to be free of the analytes and interferences (section 3). Purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required.

6.6 Ethyl ether-Nanograde, redistilled in glass if necessary. Ethyl ether must be shown to be free of peroxides before use, as indicated by EM Laboratories Quant test strips (available from Scientific Products Co. and other suppliers). Procedures recommended for removal of peroxides are provided with the test strips. After removal of peroxides, add 20 mL of ethyl alcohol preservative to each liter of ether.

6.7 Materials for sample cleanup.

6.7.1 Florisil&#xAE;-PR grade (60/100 mesh), activated at 650-700 &#xB0;C, stored in the dark in a glass container with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap. Activate each batch immediately prior to use for 16 hours minimum at 130 &#xB0;C in a foil-covered glass container and allow to cool. Alternatively, 500 mg cartridges (J.T. Baker, or equivalent) may be used.

6.7.1.1 Cartridge certification-Each cartridge lot must be certified to ensure recovery of the analytes of interest and removal of 2,4,6-trichlorophenol. To make the test mixture, add the trichlorophenol solution (section 6.7.1.3) to the same standard used to prepare the Quality Control Check Sample (section 6.8.3). Transfer the mixture to the column and dry the column. Pre-elute with three 10-mL portions of elution solvent, drying the column between elutions. Elute the cartridge with 10 mL each of methanol and water, as in section 11.2.3.3.

6.7.1.2 Concentrate the eluant to per section 10.3.3, exchange to isooctane or hexane per section 10.3.3, and inject 1.0 µL of the concentrated eluant into the GC using the procedure in section 12. The recovery of all analytes (including the unresolved GC peaks) shall be within the ranges for calibration verification (section 13.6 and Table 4), the recovery of trichlorophenol shall be less than 5%, and no peaks interfering with the target analytes shall be detected. Otherwise the Florisil cartridge is not performing properly and the cartridge lot shall be rejected.

6.7.1.3 Florisil cartridge calibration solution-2,4,6-Trichlorophenol, 0.1 µg/mL in acetone.

6.7.2 SPE elution solvent-Methylene chloride:acetonitrile:hexane (50:3:47).

6.7.3 Alumina, neutral, Brockman Activity I, 80-200 mesh (Fisher Scientific certified, or equivalent). Heat in a glass bottle for 16 hours at 400 to 450 &#xB0;C. Seal and cool to room temperature. Add 7% (w/w) reagent water and mix for 10 to 12 hours. Keep bottle tightly sealed.

6.7.4 Sulfur removal.

6.7.4.1 Copper foil or powder-Fisher, Alfa Aesar, or equivalent. Cut copper foil into approximately 1-cm squares. Copper must be activated before it may be used, as described below.

6.7.4.1.1 Place the quantity of copper needed for sulfur removal (section 11.5.1.3) in a ground-glass-stoppered Erlenmeyer flask or bottle. Cover the foil or powder with methanol.

6.7.4.1.2 Add HCl dropwise (0.5-1.0 mL) while swirling, until the copper brightens.

6.7.4.1.3 Pour off the methanol/HCl and rinse 3 times with reagent water to remove all traces of acid, then 3 times with acetone, then 3 times with hexane.

6.7.4.1.4 For copper foil, cover with hexane after the final rinse. Store in a stoppered flask under nitrogen until used. For the powder, dry on a rotary evaporator. Store in a stoppered flask under nitrogen until used. Inspect the copper foil or powder before each use. It must have a bright, non-oxidized appearance to be effective. Copper foil or powder that has oxidized may be reactivated using the procedure described above.

6.7.4.2 Tetrabutylammonium sulfite (TBA sulfite)-Prepare as described below.

6.7.4.2.1 Tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate, [CH(CH)]NHSO

6.7.4.2.2 Sodium sulfite, NaSO

6.7.4.2.3 Dissolve approximately 3 g tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate in 100 mL of reagent water in an amber bottle with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap. Extract with three 20-mL portions of hexane and discard the hexane extracts.

6.7.4.2.4 Add 25 g sodium sulfite to produce a saturated solution. Store at room temperature. Replace after 1 month.

6.7.5 Sodium chloride-Reagent grade, prepare at 5% (w/v) solution in reagent water.

6.8 Stock standard solutions-Stock standard solutions may be prepared from pure materials, or purchased as certified solutions. Traceability must be to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other national or international standard, when available. Stock solution concentrations alternative to those below may be used. Because of the toxicity of some of the compounds, primary dilutions should be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when high concentrations of neat materials are handled. The following procedure may be used to prepare standards from neat materials.

6.8.1 Accurately weigh about 0.0100 g of pure material in a 10-mL volumetric flask. Dilute to volume in pesticide quality hexane, isooctane, or other suitable solvent. Larger volumes may be used at the convenience of the laboratory. When compound purity is assayed to be 96% or greater, the weight may be used without correction to calculate the concentration of the stock standard. Commercially prepared stock standards may be used at any concentration if they are certified by the manufacturer or by an independent source.

6.8.1.1 Unless stated otherwise in this method, store non-aqueous standards in fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap, or heat-sealed, glass containers, in the dark at -20 to -10 &#xB0;C. Store aqueous standards; e.g., the aqueous LCS (section 8.4), in the dark at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C, but do not freeze.

6.8.1.2 Standards prepared by the laboratory may be stored for up to one year, except when comparison with QC check standards indicates that a standard has degraded or become more concentrated due to evaporation, or unless the laboratory has data on file to prove stability for a longer period. Commercially prepared standards may be stored until the expiration date provided by the vendor, except when comparison with QC check standards indicates that a standard has degraded or become more concentrated due to evaporation, or unless the laboratory has data from the vendor on file to prove stability for a longer period.

6.8.2 Calibration solutions-It is necessary to prepare calibration solutions for the analytes of interest (section 1.4) only using an appropriate solvent (isooctane or hexane may be used). Whatever solvent is used, both the calibration standards and the final sample extracts must use the same solvent. Other analytes may be included as desired.

6.8.2.1 Prepare calibration standards for the single-component analytes of interest and surrogates at a minimum of three concentration levels (five are suggested) by adding appropriate volumes of one or more stock standards to volumetric flasks. One of the calibration standards should be at a concentration at or below the ML specified in Table 1, or 2, or as specified by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit. The ML value may be rounded to a whole number that is more convenient for preparing the standard, but must not exceed the ML value listed in Tables 1 or 2 for those analytes which list ML values. Alternatively, the laboratory may establish an ML for each analyte based on the concentration of the lowest calibration standard in a series of standards produced by the laboratory or obtained from a commercial vendor, again, provided that the ML does not exceed the ML in Table 1 and 2, and provided that the resulting calibration meets the acceptance criteria in section 7.5.2 based on the RSD, RSE, or R.

(a) The other concentrations should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples or should define the working range of the GC system. A minimum of six concentration levels is required for a second order, non-linear (e.g., quadratic; ax+ bx + c = 0) calibration (section 7.5.2 or 7.6.2). Calibrations higher than second order are not allowed. A separate standard near the MDL may be analyzed as a check on sensitivity, but should not be included in the linearity assessment. The solvent for the standards must match the final solvent for the sample extracts (e.g., isooctane or hexane).

(b) Given the number of analytes included in this method, it is highly likely that some will coelute on one or both of the GC columns used for the analysis. Divide the analytes into two or more groups and prepare separate calibration standards for each group, at multiple concentrations (e.g., a five-point calibration will require ten solutions to cover two groups of analytes). Table 7 provides information on dividing the target analytes into separate calibration mixtures that should minimize or eliminate co-elutions. This table is provided solely as guidance, based on the GC columns suggested in this method. If an analyte listed in Table 7 is not an analyte of interest in a given laboratory setting, then it need not be included in a calibration mixture.

(c) If co-elutions occur in analysis of a sample, a co-elution on one column is acceptable so long as effective separation of the co-eluting compounds can be achieved on the second column.

6.8.2.2 Multi-component analytes (e.g., PCBs as Aroclors, and Toxaphene).

6.8.2.2.1 A standard containing a mixture of Aroclor 1016 and Aroclor 1260 will include many of the peaks represented in the other Aroclor mixtures. As a result, a multi-point initial calibration employing a mixture of Aroclors 1016 and 1260 at three to five concentrations should be sufficient to demonstrate the linearity of the detector response without the necessity of performing multi-point initial calibrations for each of the seven Aroclors. In addition, such a mixture can be used as a standard to demonstrate that a sample does not contain peaks that represent any one of the Aroclors. This standard can also be used to determine the concentrations of either Aroclor 1016 or Aroclor 1260, should they be present in a sample. Therefore, prepare a minimum of three calibration standards containing equal concentrations of both Aroclor 1016 and Aroclor 1260 by dilution of the stock standard with isooctane or hexane. The concentrations should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples and should bracket the linear range of the detector.

6.8.2.2.2 Single standards of each of the other five Aroclors are required to aid the analyst in pattern recognition. Assuming that the Aroclor 1016/1260 standards described in Section 6.8.2.2.1 have been used to demonstrate the linearity of the detector, these single standards of the remaining five Aroclors also may be used to determine the calibration factor for each Aroclor. Prepare a standard for each of the other Aroclors. The concentrations should generally correspond to the mid-point of the linear range of the detector, but lower concentrations may be employed at the discretion of the analyst based on project requirements.

6.8.2.2.3 For Toxaphene, prepare a minimum of three calibration standards containing Toxaphene by dilution of the stock standard with isooctane or hexane. The concentrations should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples and should bracket the linear range of the detector.

6.8.3 Quality Control (QC) Check Sample Concentrate-Prepare one or more mid-level standard mixtures (concentrates) in acetone (or other water miscible solvent). The concentrate is used as the spiking solution with which to prepare the Demonstration of Capabilities (DOC) samples, the Laboratory Control Sample (LCS), and Matrix Spike (MS) and Matrix Spike Duplicate (MSD) samples described in section 8. If prepared by the laboratory (as opposed the purchasing it from a commercial supplier), the concentrate must be prepared independently from the standards used for calibration, but may be prepared from the same source as the second-source standard used for calibration verification (section 7.7). Regardless of the source, the concentrate must be in a water-miscible solvent, as noted above. The concentrate is used to prepare the DOC and LCS (sections 8.2.1 and 8.4) and MS/MSD samples (section 8.3). Depending on the analytes of interest for a given sample (see Section 1.4), multiple solutions and multiple LCS or MS/MSD samples may be required to account for co-eluting analytes. However, a co-elution on one column is acceptable so long as effective separation of the co-eluting compounds can be achieved on the second column. In addition, the concentrations of the MS/MSD samples should reflect any relevant compliance limits for the analytes of interest, as described in section 8.3.1. If a custom spiking solution is required for a specific discharge (section 8.3.1), prepare it separately from the DOC and LCS solution.

6.8.4 Calibration Verification Standards-In order to verify the results of the initial calibration standards, prepare one or more mid-level standard mixtures in isooctane or hexane, using standards obtained from a second source (different manufacturer or different certified lot from the calibration standards). These standards will be analyzed to verify the accuracy of the calibration (sections 7.7 and 13.6.2). As with the QC sample concentrate in section 6.8.3, multiple solutions may be required to address co-elutions among all of the analytes.
