
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### alpha,gamma

13.4.2 DB-1701 column-andchlordane

13.5 Decomposition of DDT and endrin-If DDT, endrin, or their breakdown products are to be determined, this test must be performed prior to calibration verification (section 13.6). DDT decomposes to DDE and DDD. Endrin decomposes to endrin aldehyde and endrin ketone.

13.5.1 Inject 1 µL of the DDT and endrin decomposition solution (section 6.8.7). As noted in section 6.8.7, other injection volumes may be used as long as the concentrations of DDT and endrin in the solution are adjusted to introduce the masses of the two analytes into the instrument that are listed in section 6.8.7.

13.5.2 Measure the areas of the peaks for DDT, DDE, DDD, endrin, endrin aldehyde, and endrin ketone in the chromatogram and calculate the percent breakdown as shown in the equations below:

13.5.3 Both the % breakdown of DDT and of endrin must be less than 20%, otherwise the system is not performing acceptably for DDT and endrin. In this case, repair the GC column system that failed and repeat the performance tests (sections 13.2 to 13.6) until the specification is met.

13.6 Calibration verification.

13.6.1 Compute the percent recovery of each analyte and of the coeluting analytes, based on the initial calibration data (section 7.5 or 7.6).

13.6.2 For each analyte or for coeluting analytes, compare the concentration with the limits for calibration verification in Table 4. For coeluting analytes, use the coeluting analyte with the least restrictive specification (the widest range). For analytes in Table 2 not listed in Table 4, QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 13 and 14). If the recoveries for all analytes meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may continue. If, however, any recovery falls outside the calibration verification range, system performance is unacceptable for that analyte. If this occurs, repair the system and repeat the test (section 13.6), or prepare a fresh calibration standard and repeat the test, or recalibrate (section 7). See Section 8.1.7 for information on repeated test failures.

13.7 Laboratory control sample.

13.7.1 Analyze the extract of the LCS (section 6.8.3) extracted with each sample batch (Section 8.4). See Section 8.4 for criteria acceptance of the LCS.

13.7.2 It is suggested, but not required, that the laboratory update statements of data quality. Add results that pass the specifications in section 13.7.3 to initial (section 8.7) and previous ongoing data. Update QC charts to form a graphic representation of continued laboratory performance. Develop a statement of laboratory data quality for each analyte by calculating the average percent recovery (R) and the standard deviation of percent recovery, sr. Express the accuracy as a recovery interval from R - 2sr to R + 2sr. For example, if R = 95% and sr = 5%, the accuracy is 85 to 105%.

13.8 Internal standard response-If internal standard calibration is used, verify that detector sensitivity has not changed by comparing the response (area or height) of each internal standard in the sample, blank, LCS, MS, and MSD to the response in calibration verification (section 6.8.3). The peak area or height of the internal standard should be within 50% to 200% (to 2x) of its respective peak area or height in the verification standard. If the area or height is not within this range, compute the concentration of the analytes using the external standard method (section 7.5). If the analytes are affected, re-prepare and reanalyze the sample, blank, LCS, MS, or MSD, and repeat the pertinent test.

14.1 Identification is accomplished by comparison of data from analysis of a sample, blank, or other QC sample with data from calibration verification (section 7.7.1 or 13.5), and with data stored in the retention-time and calibration libraries (section 7.7). The retention time window is determined as described in section 14.2. Identification is confirmed when retention time agrees on both GC columns, as described below. Alternatively, GC/MS identification may be used to provide another means of identification.

14.2 Establishing retention time windows.

14.2.1 Using the data from the multi-point initial calibration (section 7.4), determine the retention time in decimal minutes (not minutes:seconds) of each peak representing a single-component target analyte on each column/detector system. For the multi-component analytes, use the retention times of the five largest peaks in the chromatograms on each column/detector system.

14.2.2 Calculate the standard deviation of the retention times for each single-component analyte on each column/detector system and for the three to five exclusive (unique large) peaks for each multi-component analyte.

14.2.3 Define the width of the retention time window as three times that standard deviation. Establish the center of the retention time window for each analyte by using the absolute retention time for each analyte from the calibration verification standard at the beginning of the analytical shift. For samples run during the same shift as an initial calibration, use the retention time of the mid-point standard of the initial calibration. If the calculated RT window is less than 0.02 minutes, then use 0.02 minutes as the window.

14.2.4 The retention time windows must be recentered when a new GC column is installed or if a GC column has been shortened during maintenance to a degree that the retention times of analytes in the calibration verification standard have shifted close to the lower limits of the established retention time windows.

14.2.5 RT windows should be checked periodically by examining the peaks in spiked samples such as the LCS or MS/MSD to confirm that peaks for known analytes are properly identified.

14.2.6 If the retention time of an analyte in the calibration (Section 7.4) varies by more than 5 seconds across the calibration range as a function of the concentration of the standard, using the standard deviation of the retention times (section 14.2.3) to set the width of the retention time window may not adequately serve to identify the analyte in question under routine conditions. In such cases, data from additional analyses of standards may be required to adequately model the chromatographic behavior of the analyte.

14.3 Identifying the analyte in a sample.

14.3.1 In order to identify a single-component analyte from analysis of a sample, blank, or other QC sample, the peak representing the analyte must fall within its respective retention time windows on both column/detector systems (as defined in section 14.2). That identification is further supported by the comparison of the numerical results on both columns, as described in section 15.7.

14.3.2 In order to identify a multi-component analyte, pattern matching (fingerprinting) may be used, or the three to five exclusive (unique and largest) peaks for that analyte must fall within their respective retention time windows on both column/detector systems (as defined in section 14.2). That identification is further supported by the comparison of the numerical results on both columns, as described in section 15.7. Alternatively, GC/MS identification may be used. Differentiation among some of the Aroclors may require evaluation of more than five peaks to ensure correct identification.

14.4 GC/MS confirmation. When the concentration of an analyte is sufficient and the presence or identity is suspect, its presence should be confirmed by GC/MS. In order to match the sensitivity of the GC/ECD, confirmation would need to be by GC/MS-SIM, or the estimated concentration would need to be 100 times higher than the GC/ECD calibration range. The extract may be concentrated by an additional amount to allow a further attempt at GC/MS confirmation.

14.5 Additional information that may aid the laboratory in the identification of an analyte. The occurrence of peaks eluting near the retention time of an analyte of interest increases the probability of a false positive for the analyte. If the concentration is insufficient for confirmation by GC/MS, the laboratory may use the cleanup procedures in this method (section 11) on a new sample aliquot to attempt to remove the interferent. After attempts at cleanup are exhausted, the following steps may be helpful to assure that the substance that appears in the RT windows on both columns is the analyte of interest.
