
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.,

7.7 The working calibration curve, CF, or RF must be verified immediately after calibration and at the beginning and end of each 24-hour shift by the analysis of a mid-level calibration standard. The calibration verification standard(s) must be obtained from a second manufacturer or a manufacturer's batch prepared independently from the batch used for calibration (Section 6.8.4). Requirements for calibration verification are given in Section 13.6 and Table 4. Alternatively, calibration verification may be performed after a set number of injections (e.g., every 20 injections), to include injection of extracts of field samples, QC samples, instrument blanks, etc. (it is based on the number of injections performed, not sample extracts). The time for the injections may not exceed 24 hours.

7.8 Florisil&#xAE; calibration-The column cleanup procedure in Section 11.3 utilizes Florisil column chromatography. Florisil&#xAE; from different batches or sources may vary in adsorptive capacity. To standardize the amount of Florisil&#xAE; which is used, use of the lauric acid value (Reference 11) is suggested. The referenced procedure determines the adsorption from a hexane solution of lauric acid (mg) per g of Florisil&#xAE;. The amount of Florisil&#xAE; to be used for each column is calculated by dividing 110 by this ratio and multiplying by 20 g. If cartridges containing Florisil&#xAE; are used, then this step is not necessary.

8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and ongoing analysis of spiked samples and blanks to evaluate and document data quality. The laboratory must maintain records to document the quality of data generated. Ongoing data quality checks are compared with established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet performance requirements of this method. A quality control check standard (LCS, section 8.4) must be prepared and analyzed with each batch of samples to confirm that the measurements were performed in an in-control mode of operation. A laboratory may develop its own performance criteria (as QC acceptance criteria), provided such criteria are as or more restrictive than the criteria in this method.

8.1.1 The laboratory must make an initial demonstration of the capability (IDC) to generate acceptable precision and recovery with this method. This demonstration is detailed in Section 8.2. On a continuing basis, the laboratory must repeat demonstration of capability (DOC) at least annually.

8.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in analytical technology, and to overcome matrix interferences, the laboratory is permitted certain options (section 1.8 and 40 CFR 136.6(b) [Reference 12]) to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements. These options may include alternative extraction (e.g., other solid-phase extraction materials and formats), concentration, and cleanup procedures, and changes in GC columns (Reference 12). Alternative determinative techniques, such as the substitution of spectroscopic or immunoassay techniques, and changes that degrade method performance, are not allowed. If an analytical technique other than the techniques specified in this method is used, that technique must have a specificity equal to or greater than the specificity of the techniques in this method for the analytes of interest. The laboratory is also encouraged to participate in performance evaluation studies (see section 8.8).

8.1.2.1 Each time a modification listed above is made to this method, the laboratory is required to repeat the procedure in section 8.2. If the detection limit of the method will be affected by the change, the laboratory is required to demonstrate that the MDLs (40 CFR part 136, appendix B) are lower than one-third the regulatory compliance limit or as low as the MDLs in this method, whichever are greater. If calibration will be affected by the change, the instrument must be recalibrated per section 7. Once the modification is demonstrated to produce results equivalent or superior to results produced by this method as written, that modification may be used routinely thereafter, so long as the other requirements in this method are met (e.g., matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate recovery and relative percent difference).

8.1.2.1.1 If an allowed method modification, is to be applied to a specific discharge, the laboratory must prepare and analyze matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD) samples (section 8.3) and LCS samples (section 8.4). The laboratory must include surrogates (Section 8.7) in each of the samples. The MS/MSD and LCS samples must be fortified with the analytes of interest (section 1.4). If the modification is for nationwide use, MS/MSD samples must be prepared from a minimum of nine different discharges (See section 8.1.2.1.2), and all QC acceptance criteria in this method must be met. This evaluation only needs to be performed once other than for the routine QC required by this method (for example it could be performed by the vendor of an alternative material) but any laboratory using that specific material must have the results of the study available. This includes a full data package with the raw data that will allow an independent reviewer to verify each determination and calculation performed by the laboratory (see section 8.1.2.2.5, items (a)-(q)).

8.1.2.1.2 Sample matrices on which MS/MSD tests must be performed for nationwide use of an allowed modification:

(a) Effluent from a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).

(b) ASTM D5905 Standard Specification for Substitute Wastewater.

(c) Sewage sludge, if sewage sludge will be in the permit.

(d) ASTM D1141 Standard Specification for Substitute Ocean Water, if ocean water will be in the permit.
