
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### https://www.epa.gov/eg/industrial-effluent-guidelines

(e) Untreated and treated wastewaters up to a total of nine matrix types (seefor a list of industrial categories with existing effluent guidelines).

(i) At least one of the above wastewater matrix types must have at least one of the following characteristics:

(A) Total suspended solids greater than 40 mg/L.

(B) Total dissolved solids greater than 100 mg/L.

(C) Oil and grease greater than 20 mg/L.

(D) NaCl greater than 120 mg/L.

(E) CaCOgreater than 140 mg/L.

(ii) The interim acceptance criteria for MS, MSD recoveries that do not have recovery limits in Table 4 or developed in section 8.3.3, and for surrogates that do not have recovery limits developed in section 8.6, must be no wider than 60-140%, and the relative percent difference (RPD) of the concentrations in the MS and MSD that do not have RPD limits in Table 4 or developed in section 8.3.3, must be less than 30%. Alternatively, the laboratory may use the laboratory's in-house limits if they are tighter.

(f) A proficiency testing (PT) sample from a recognized provider, in addition to tests of the nine matrices (section 8.1.2.1.1).

8.1.2.2 The laboratory must maintain records of modifications made to this method. These records include the following, at a minimum:

8.1.2.2.1 The names, titles, and business street addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses, of the analyst(s) that performed the analyses and modification, and of the quality control officer that witnessed and will verify the analyses and modifications.

8.1.2.2.2 A list of analytes, by name and CAS Registry number.

8.1.2.2.3 A narrative stating reason(s) for the modifications.

8.1.2.2.4 Results from all quality control (QC) tests comparing the modified method to this method, including:

(a) Calibration (section 7).

(b) Calibration verification (section 13.6).

(c) Initial demonstration of capability (section 8.2).

(d) Analysis of blanks (section 8.5).

(e) Matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate analysis (section 8.3).

(f) Laboratory control sample analysis (section 8.4).

8.1.2.2.5 Data that will allow an independent reviewer to validate each determination by tracing the instrument output (peak height, area, or other signal) to the final result. These data are to include:

(a) Sample numbers and other identifiers.

(b) Extraction dates.

(c) Analysis dates and times.

(d) Analysis sequence/run chronology.

(e) Sample weight or volume (section 10).

(f) Extract volume prior to each cleanup step (sections 10 and 11).

(g) Extract volume after each cleanup step (section 11).

(h) Final extract volume prior to injection (sections 10 and 12).

(i) Injection volume (sections 12.3 and 13.2).

(j) Sample or extract dilution (section 15.4).

(k) Instrument and operating conditions.

(l) Column (dimensions, material, etc.).

(m) Operating conditions (temperatures, flow rates, etc.).

(n) Detector (type, operating conditions, etc.).

(o) Chromatograms and other recordings of raw data.

(p) Quantitation reports, data system outputs, and other data to link the raw data to the results reported.

(q) A written Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).

8.1.2.2.6 Each individual laboratory wishing to use a given modification must perform the start-up tests in section 8.1.2 (e.g., DOC, MDL), with the modification as an integral part of this method prior to applying the modification to specific discharges. Results of the DOC must meet the QC acceptance criteria in Table 5 for the analytes of interest (section 1.4), and the MDLs must be equal to or lower than the MDLs in Tables 1 and 2 for the analytes of interest.

8.1.3 Before analyzing samples, the laboratory must analyze a blank to demonstrate that interferences from the analytical system, lab ware, and reagents, are under control. Each time a batch of samples is extracted or reagents are changed, a blank must be extracted and analyzed as a safeguard against laboratory contamination. Requirements for the blank are given in section 8.5.

8.1.4 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike and analyze samples to monitor and evaluate method and laboratory performance on the sample matrix. The procedure for spiking and analysis is given in section 8.3.

8.1.5 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through analysis of a quality control check sample (laboratory control sample, LCS; on-going precision and recovery sample, OPR) that the measurement system is in control. This procedure is described in Section 8.4.

8.1.6 The laboratory should maintain performance records to document the quality of data that is generated. This procedure is given in section 8.7.

8.1.7 The large number of analytes tested in performance tests in this method present a substantial probability that one or more will fail acceptance criteria when all analytes are tested simultaneously, and a re-test (reanalysis) is allowed if this situation should occur. If, however, continued re-testing results in further repeated failures, the laboratory should document the failures and either avoid reporting results for the analytes that failed or report the problem and failures with the data. A QC failure does not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.

8.2 Demonstration of capability (DOC)-To establish the ability to generate acceptable recovery and precision, the laboratory must perform the DOC in sections 8.2.1 through 8.2.6 for the analytes of interest initially and in an on-going manner at least annually. The laboratory must also establish MDLs for the analytes of interest using the MDL procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The laboratory's MDLs must be equal to or lower than those listed in Tables 1 or 2, or lower than one-third the regulatory compliance limit, whichever is greater. For MDLs not listed in Tables 1 or 2, the laboratory must determine the MDLs using the MDL procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B under the same conditions used to determine the MDLs for the analytes listed in Tables 1 and 2. When analyzing the PCBs as Aroclors, it is only necessary to establish an MDL for one of the multi-component analytes (e.g., PCB 1254), or the mixture of Aroclors 1016 and 1260 may be used to establish MDLs for all of the Aroclors. Similarly, MDLs for other multi-component analytes (e.g., Chlordanes) may be determined using only one of the major components. All procedures used in the analysis, including cleanup procedures, must be included in the DOC.

8.2.1 For the DOC, a QC check sample concentrate containing each analyte of interest (section 1.4) is prepared in a water-miscible solvent using the solution in section 6.8.3.

8.2.2 Using a pipet or syringe, prepare four QC check samples by adding an appropriate volume of the concentrate and of the surrogate(s) to each of four 1-L aliquots of reagent water. Swirl or stir to mix.

8.2.3 Extract and analyze the well-mixed QC check samples according to the method beginning in section 10.

8.2.4 Calculate the average percent recovery () and the standard deviation (s) of the percent recovery for each analyte using the four results.

8.2.5 For each analyte, compare s andwith the corresponding acceptance criteria for precision and recovery in Table 4. For analytes in Table 2 that are not listed in Table 4, QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 12 and 13). If s andfor all analytes of interest meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples can begin. If any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individualfalls outside the range for recovery, system performance is unacceptable for that analyte.

8.2.6 When one or more of the analytes tested fail at least one of the acceptance criteria, repeat the test for only the analytes that failed. If results for these analytes pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of samples and blanks may proceed. If one or more of the analytes again fail, system performance is unacceptable for the analytes that failed the acceptance criteria. Correct the problem and repeat the test (section 8.2). See section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

8.3 Matrix spike and matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD)-The purpose of the MS/MSD requirement is to provide data that demonstrate the effectiveness of the method as applied to the samples in question by a given laboratory, and both the data user (discharger, permittee, regulated entity, regulatory/control authority, customer, other) and the laboratory share responsibility for provision of such data. The data user should identify the sample and the analytes of interest (section 1.4) to be spiked and provide sufficient sample volume to perform MS/MSD analyses. The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike at least 5% of the samples in duplicate from each discharge being monitored to assess accuracy (recovery and precision). If direction cannot be obtained from the data user, the laboratory must spike at least one sample in duplicate per extraction batch of up to 20 samples with the analytes in Table 1. Spiked sample results should be reported only to the data user whose sample was spiked, or as requested or required by a regulatory/control authority, or in a permit.

8.3.1. If, as in compliance monitoring, the concentration of a specific analyte will be checked against a regulatory concentration limit, the concentration of the spike should be at that limit; otherwise, the concentration of the spike should be one to five times higher than the background concentration determined in section 8.3.2, at or near the midpoint of the calibration range, or at the concentration in the LCS (section 8.4) whichever concentration would be larger. When no information is available, the mid-point of the calibration may be used.

8.3.2 Analyze one sample aliquot to determine the background concentration (B) of the each analyte of interest. If necessary to meet the requirement in section 8.3.1, prepare a new check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1) appropriate for the background concentration. Spike and analyze two additional sample aliquots of the same volume as the original sample, and determine the concentrations after spiking (Aand A) of each analyte. Calculate the percent recoveries (Pand P) as:

Also calculate the relative percent difference (RPD) between the concentrations (Aand A):

8.3.3 Compare the percent recoveries (Pand P) and the RPD for each analyte in the MS/MSD aliquots with the corresponding QC acceptance criteria for recovery (P) and RPD in Table 4.

(a) If any individual P falls outside the designated range for recovery in either aliquot, or the RPD limit is exceeded, the result for the analyte in the unspiked sample is suspect and may not be reported or used for permitting or regulatory compliance. See section 8.1.7 for disposition of failures.

(b) For analytes in Table 2 not listed in Table 4, QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 12 and 13).

8.3.4 After analysis of a minimum of 20 MS/MSD samples for each target analyte and surrogate, and if the laboratory chooses to develop and apply optional in-house QC limits, the laboratory should calculate and apply the optional in-house QC limits for recovery and RPD of future MS/MSD samples (Section 8.3). The optional in-house QC limits for recovery are calculated as the mean observed recovery +/-3 standard deviations, and the upper QC limit for RPD is calculated as the mean RPD plus 3 standard deviations of the RPDs. The in-house QC limits must be updated at least every two years and re-established after any major change in the analytical instrumentation or process. At least 80% of the analytes tested in the MS/MSD must have in-house QC acceptance criteria that are tighter than those in Table 4 and the remaining analytes (those not included in the 80%) must meet the acceptance criteria in Table 4. If an in-house QC limit for the RPD is greater than the limit in Table 4, then the limit in Table 4 must be used. Similarly, if an in-house lower limit for recovery is below the lower limit in Table 4, then the lower limit in Table 4 must be used, and if an in-house upper limit for recovery is above the upper limit in Table 4, then the upper limit in Table 4 must be used. The laboratory must evaluate surrogate recovery data in each sample against its in-house surrogate recovery limits. The laboratory may use 60 -140% as interim acceptance criteria for surrogate recoveries until in-house limits are developed. Alternatively, surrogate recovery limits may be developed from laboratory control charts. In-house QC acceptance criteria must be updated at least every two years.

8.4 Laboratory control sample (LCS)-A QC check sample (laboratory control sample, LCS; on-going precision and recovery sample, OPR) containing each single-component analyte of interest (section 1.4) must be extracted, concentrated, and analyzed with each extraction batch of up to 20 samples (section 3.1) to demonstrate acceptable recovery of the analytes of interest from a clean sample matrix. If multi-peak analytes are required, extract and prepare at least one as an LCS for each batch. Alternatively, the laboratory may set up a program where multi-peak LCS is rotated with a single-peak LCS.

8.4.1 Prepare the LCS by adding QC check sample concentrate (sections 6.8.3 and 8.2.1) to reagent water. Include all analytes of interest (section 1.4) in the LCS. The volume of reagent water must be the same as the nominal volume used for the sample, the DOC (Section 8.2), the blank (section 8.5), and the MS/MSD (section 8.3). Also add a volume of the surrogate solution (section 6.8.6).

8.4.2 Analyze the LCS prior to analysis of samples in the extraction batch (Section 3.1). Determine the concentration (A) of each analyte. Calculate the percent recovery as:

8.4.3 For each analyte, compare the percent recovery (P) with its corresponding QC acceptance criterion in Table 4. For analytes of interest in Table 2 not listed in Table 4, use the QC acceptance criteria developed for the MS/MSD (section 8.3.3.2), or limits based on laboratory control charts. If the recoveries for all analytes of interest fall within the designated ranges, analysis of blanks and field samples may proceed. If any individual recovery falls outside the range, proceed according to section 8.4.4.

8.4.4 Repeat the test only for those analytes that failed to meet the acceptance criteria (P). If these analytes now pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. Repeated failure, however, will confirm a general problem with the measurement system. If this occurs, repeat the test using a fresh LCS (section 8.2.1) or an LCS prepared with a fresh QC check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1), or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to analysis of the LCS prepared with a fresh sample concentrate, or to system repair, repeat the LCS test (Section 8.4). If failure of the LCS indicates a systemic problem with samples in the batch, re-extract and re-analyze the samples in the batch. See Section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

8.4.5 After analysis of 20 LCS samples, and if the laboratory chooses to develop and apply optional in-house QC limits, the laboratory should calculate and apply the optional in-house QC limits for recovery of future LCS samples (section 8.4). Limits for recovery in the LCS should be calculated as the mean recovery +/-3 standard deviations. A minimum of 80% of the analytes tested for in the LCS must have QC acceptance criteria tighter than those in Table 4, and the remaining analytes (those not included in the 80%) must meet the acceptance criteria in Table 4. If an in-house lower limit for recovery is lower than the lower limit in Table 4, the lower limit in Table 4 must be used, and if an in-house upper limit for recovery is higher than the upper limit in Table 4, the upper limit in Table 4 must be used. Many of the analytes and surrogates do not contain acceptance criteria. The laboratory should use 60-140% as interim acceptance criteria for recoveries of spiked analytes and surrogates that do not have recovery limits specified in Table 4, and at least 80% of the surrogates must meet the 60-140% interim criteria until in-house LCS and surrogate limits are developed. Alternatively, acceptance criteria for analytes that do not have recovery limits in Table 4 may be based on laboratory control charts. In-house QC acceptance criteria must be updated at least every two years.

8.5 Blank-Extract and analyze a blank with each extraction batch (section 3.1) to demonstrate that the reagents and equipment used for preparation and analysis are free from contamination.

8.5.1 Prepare the blank from reagent water and spike it with the surrogates. The volume of reagent water must be the same as the volume used for samples, the DOC (section 8.2), the LCS (section 8.4), and the MS/MSD (section 8.3). Extract, concentrate, and analyze the blank using the same procedures and reagents used for the samples, LCS, and MS/MSD in the batch. Analyze the blank immediately after analysis of the LCS (section 8.4) and prior to analysis of the MS/MSD and samples to demonstrate freedom from contamination.

8.5.2 If any analyte of interest is found in the blank at a concentration greater than the MDL for the analyte, at a concentration greater than one-third the regulatory compliance limit, or at a concentration greater than one-tenth the concentration in a sample in the batch (section 3.1), whichever is greatest, analysis of samples must be halted and samples in the batch must be re-extracted and the extracts reanalyzed. Samples in a batch must be associated with an uncontaminated blank before the results for those samples may be reported or used for permitting or regulatory compliance purposes. If re-testing of blanks results in repeated failures, the laboratory should document the failures and report the problem and failures with the data.

8.6 Surrogate recovery-The laboratory must spike all samples with the surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.8.6) per section 10.2.2 or 10.4.2, analyze the samples, and calculate the percent recovery of each surrogate. QC acceptance criteria for surrogates must be developed by the laboratory (section 8.4). If any recovery fails its criterion, attempt to find and correct the cause of the failure, and if sufficient volume is available, re-extract another aliquot of the affected sample; otherwise, see section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

8.7 As part of the QC program for the laboratory, it is suggested but not required that method accuracy for wastewater samples be assessed and records maintained. After analysis of five or more spiked wastewater samples as in Section 8.3, calculate the average percent recovery () and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (sp). Express the accuracy assessment as a percent interval from-2sp to+2sp. For example, if= 90% and sp = 10%, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-110%. Update the accuracy assessment for each analyte on a regular basis to ensure process control (e.g., after each 5-10 new accuracy measurements). If desired, statements of accuracy for laboratory performance, independent of performance on samples, may be developed using LCSs.

8.8 It is recommended that the laboratory adopt additional quality assurance practices for use with this method. The specific practices that are most productive depend upon the needs of the laboratory and the nature of the samples. Field duplicates may be analyzed to assess the precision of environmental measurements. When doubt exists over the identification of a peak on the chromatogram, confirmatory techniques such as gas chromatography with another dissimilar column, specific element detector, or mass spectrometer must be used. Whenever possible, the laboratory should analyze standard reference materials and participate in relevant performance evaluation studies.

9.1 Collect samples as grab samples in glass bottles, or in refrigerated bottles using automatic sampling equipment. Collect 1-L of ambient waters, effluents, and other aqueous samples. If high concentrations of the analytes of interest are expected (e.g., for untreated effluents or in-process waters), collect a smaller volume (e.g., 250 mL), but not less than 100 mL, in addition to the 1-L sample. Follow conventional sampling practices, except do not pre-rinse the bottle with sample before collection. Automatic sampling equipment must be as free as possible of polyvinyl chloride or other tubing or other potential sources of contamination. If needed, collect additional sample(s) for the MS/MSD (section 8.3).

9.2 Ice or refrigerate the sample at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until extraction, but do not freeze. If aldrin is to be determined and residual chlorine is present, add 80 mg/L of sodium thiosulfate but do not add excess. Any method suitable for field use may be employed to test for residual chlorine (Reference 14). If sodium thiosulfate interferes in the determination of the analytes, an alternative preservative (e.g., ascorbic acid or sodium sulfite) may be used.

9.3 Extract all samples within seven days of collection and completely analyze within 40 days of extraction (Reference 1). If the sample will not be extracted within 72 hours of collection, adjust the sample pH to a range of 5.0-9.0 with sodium hydroxide solution or sulfuric acid. Record the volume of acid or base used.

10.1 This section contains procedures for separatory funnel liquid-liquid extraction (SFLLE, section 10.2), continuous liquid-liquid extraction (CLLE, section 10.4), and disk-based solid-phase extraction (SPE, section 10.5). SFLLE is faster, but may not be as effective as CLLE for extracting polar analytes. SFLLE is labor intensive and may result in formation of emulsions that are difficult to break. CLLE is less labor intensive, avoids emulsion formation, but requires more time (18-24 hours), more hood space, and may require more solvent. SPE can be faster, unless the particulate load in an aqueous sample is so high that it slows the filtration process. If an alternative extraction scheme to those detailed in this method is used, all QC tests must be performed and all QC acceptance criteria must be met with that extraction scheme as an integral part of this method.

10.2 Separatory funnel liquid-liquid extraction (SFLLE).

10.2.1 The SFLLE procedure below assumes a sample volume of 1 L. When a different sample volume is extracted, adjust the volume of methylene chloride accordingly.

10.2.2 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Pour the entire sample into the separatory funnel. Pipet the surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.8.6) into the separatory funnel. If the sample will be used for the LCS or MS or MSD, pipet the appropriate QC check sample concentrate (section 8.3 or 8.4) into the separatory funnel. Mix well. If the sample arrives in a larger sample bottle, 1 L may be measured in a graduated cylinder, then added to the separatory funnel.

10.2.3 Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake for 30 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the separatory funnel and extract the sample by shaking the funnel for two minutes with periodic venting to release excess pressure. Allow the organic layer to separate from the water phase for a minimum of 10 minutes. If an emulsion forms and the emulsion interface between the layers is more than one-third the volume of the solvent layer, employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation. The optimum technique depends upon the sample, but may include stirring, filtration of the emulsion through glass wool, use of phase-separation paper, centrifugation, salting, freezing, or other physical methods. Collect the methylene chloride extract in a flask. If the emulsion cannot be broken (recovery of less than 80% of the methylene chloride, corrected for the water solubility of methylene chloride), transfer the sample, solvent, and emulsion into the extraction chamber of a continuous extractor and proceed as described in section 10.4.

10.2.4 Add a second 60-mL volume of methylene chloride to the sample bottle and repeat the extraction procedure a second time, combining the extracts in the flask. Perform a third extraction in the same manner. Proceed to macro-concentration (section 10.3.1).

10.2.5 Determine the original sample volume by refilling the sample bottle to the mark and transferring the liquid to an appropriately sized graduated cylinder. Record the sample volume to the nearest 5 mL. Sample volumes may also be determined by weighing the container before and after extraction or filling to the mark with water.

10.3 Concentration.

10.3.1 Macro concentration.

10.3.1.1 Assemble a Kuderna-Danish (K-D) concentrator by attaching a 10-mL concentrator tube to a 500-mL evaporative flask. Other concentration devices or techniques may be used in place of the K-D concentrator so long as the requirements of section 8.2 are met.

10.3.1.2 Pour the extract through a solvent-rinsed drying column containing about 10 cm of anhydrous sodium sulfate, and collect the extract in the K-D concentrator. Rinse the flask and column with 20-30 mL of methylene chloride to complete the quantitative transfer.

10.3.1.3 If no cleanup is to be performed on the sample, add 500 µL (0.5 mL) of isooctane to the extract to act as a keeper during concentration.

10.3.1.4 Add one or two clean boiling chips and attach a three-ball Snyder column to the K-D evaporative flask. Pre-wet the Snyder column by adding about 1 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60-65 &#xB0;C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in the hot water, and the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with hot vapor. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of evaporation the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches 1 mL or other determined amount, remove the K-D apparatus from the water bath and allow it to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes.

10.3.1.5 If the extract is to be cleaned up by sulfur removal or acid back extraction, remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1 to 2 mL of methylene chloride. A 5-mL syringe is recommended for this operation. Adjust the final volume to 10 mL in methylene chloride and proceed to sulfur removal (section 11.5) or acid back extraction (section 11.6). If the extract is to cleaned up using one of the other cleanup procedures or is to be injected into the GC, proceed to Kuderna-Danish micro-concentration (section 10.3.2) or nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange (section 10.3.3).

10.3.2 Kuderna-Danish micro concentration-Add another one or two clean boiling chips to the concentrator tube and attach a two-ball micro-Snyder column. Pre-wet the Snyder column by adding about 0.5 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60-65 &#xB0;C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in hot water. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5-10 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches approximately 1 mL or other required amount, remove the K-D apparatus from the water bath and allow it to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with approximately 0.2 mL of methylene chloride, and proceed to section 10.3.3 for nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange.

10.3.3 Nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange-Extracts to be subjected to solid-phase cleanup (SPE) are exchanged into 1.0 mL of the SPE elution solvent (section 6.7.2.2). Extracts to be subjected to Florisil&#xAE; or alumina cleanups are exchanged into hexane. Extracts that have been cleaned up and are ready for analysis are exchanged into isooctane or hexane, to match the solvent used for the calibration standards.

10.3.3.1 Transfer the vial containing the sample extract to the nitrogen evaporation (blowdown) device (section 5.2.5.2). Lower the vial into a 50-55 &#xB0;C water bath and begin concentrating. During the solvent evaporation process, do not allow the extract to become dry. Adjust the flow of nitrogen so that the surface of the solvent is just visibly disturbed. A large vortex in the solvent may cause analyte loss.

10.3.3.2 Solvent exchange.

10.3.3.2.1 When the volume of the liquid is approximately 500 µL, add 2 to 3 mL of the desired solvent (SPE elution solvent for SPE cleanup, hexane for Florisil or alumina, or isooctane for final injection into the GC) and continue concentrating to approximately 500 µL. Repeat the addition of solvent and concentrate once more.

10.3.3.3.2 Adjust the volume of an extract to be cleaned up by SPE, Florisil&#xAE;, or alumina to 1.0 mL. Proceed to extract cleanup (section 11).

10.3.3.3 Extracts that have been cleaned up and are ready for analysis-Adjust the final extract volume to be consistent with the volume extracted and the sensitivity desired. The goal is for a full-volume sample (e.g., 1-L) to have a final extract volume of 10 mL, but other volumes may be used.

10.3.4 Transfer the concentrated extract to a vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap. Seal the vial and label with the sample number. Store in the dark at room temperature until ready for GC analysis. If GC analysis will not be performed on the same day, store the vial in the dark at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C. Analyze the extract by GC per the procedure in section 12.

10.4 Continuous liquid/liquid extraction (CLLE).

10.4.1 Use CLLE when experience with a sample from a given source indicates an emulsion problem, or when an emulsion is encountered using SFLLE. CLLE may be used for all samples, if desired.

10.4.2 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Transfer the sample to the continuous extractor and, using a pipet, add surrogate standard spiking solution. If the sample will be used for the LCS, MS, or MSD, pipet the appropriate check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1 or 8.3.2) into the separatory funnel. Mix well. Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake for 30 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the extractor.

10.4.3 Repeat the sample bottle rinse with two additional 50-100 mL portions of methylene chloride and add the rinses to the extractor.

10.4.4 Add a suitable volume of methylene chloride to the distilling flask (generally 200-500 mL) and sufficient reagent water to ensure proper operation of the extractor, and extract the sample for 18-24 hours. A shorter or longer extraction time may be used if all QC acceptance criteria are met. Test and, if necessary, adjust the pH of the water to a range of 5.0-9.0 during the second or third hour of the extraction. After extraction, allow the apparatus to cool, then detach the distilling flask. Dry, concentrate, solvent exchange, and transfer the extract to a vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap, per Section 10.3.

10.4.5 Determine the original sample volume by refilling the sample bottle to the mark and transferring the liquid to an appropriately sized graduated cylinder. Record the sample volume to the nearest 5 mL. Sample volumes may also be determined by weighing the container before and after extraction or filling to the mark with water.

10.5 Solid-phase extraction of aqueous samples. The steps in this section address the extraction of aqueous field samples using disk-based solid-phase extraction (SPE) media, based on an ATP approved by EPA in 1995 (Reference 20). This application of SPE is distinct from that used in this method for the cleanup of sample extracts in section 11.2. Analysts must be careful not to confuse the equipment, supplies, or the procedural steps from these two different uses of SPE.

10.5.1 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. If the sample contains particulates, let stand to settle out the particulates before extraction.

10.5.2 Extract the sample as follows:

10.5.2.1 Place a 90-mm standard filter apparatus on a vacuum filtration flask or manifold and attach to a vacuum source. The vacuum gauge must read at least 25 in. of mercury when all valves are closed. Position a 90-mm C18 extraction disk onto the filter screen. Wet the entire disk with methanol. To aid in filtering samples with particulates, a 1-µm glass fiber filter or Empore&#xAE; Filter Aid 400 can be placed on the top of the disk and wetted with methanol. Install the reservoir and clamp. Resume vacuum to dry the disk. Interrupt the vacuum. Wash the disk and reservoir with 20 mL of methylene chloride. Resume the vacuum briefly to pull methylene chloride through the disk. Interrupt the vacuum and allow the disk to soak for about a minute. Resume vacuum and completely dry the disk.

10.5.2.2 Condition the disk with 20 mL of methanol. Apply vacuum until nearly all the solvent has passed through the disk, interrupting it while solvent remains on the disk. Allow the disk to soak for about a minute. Resume vacuum to pull most of the methanol through, but interrupting it to leave a layer of methanol on the surface of the disk. Do not allow disk to dry. For uniform flow and good recovery, it is critical the disk not be allowed to dry from now until the end of the extraction. Discard waste solvent. Rinse the disk with 20 mL of deionized water. Resume vacuum to pull most of the water through, but interrupt it to leave a layer of water on the surface of the disk. Do not allow the disk to dry. If disk does dry, recondition with methanol as above.

10.5.2.3 Add the water sample to the reservoir and immediately apply the vacuum. If particulates have settled in the sample, gently decant the clear layer into the apparatus until most of the sample has been processed. Then pour the remainder including the particulates into the reservoir. Empty the sample bottle completely. When the filtration is complete, dry the disk for three minutes. Turn off the vacuum.

10.5.3 Discard sample filtrate. Insert tube to collect the eluant. The tube should fit around the drip tip of the base. Reassemble the apparatus. Add 5.0 mL of acetone to the center of the disk, allowing it to spread evenly over the disk. Turn the vacuum on and quickly off when the filter surface nears dryness but still remains wet. Allow to soak for 15 seconds. Add 20 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal and shake to rinse the inside of the bottle. Transfer the methylene chloride from the bottle to the filter. Resume the vacuum slowly so as to avoid splashing.

Interrupt the vacuum when the filter surface nears dryness but still remains wet. Allow disk to soak in solvent for 20 seconds. Rinse the reservoir glass and disk with 10 mL of methylene chloride. Resume vacuum slowly. Interrupt vacuum when disk is covered with solvent. Allow to soak for 20 seconds. Resume vacuum to dry the disk. Remove the sample tube.

10.5.4 Dry, concentrate, solvent exchange, and transfer the extract to a vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap, per section 10.3.

10.5.5 Determine the original sample volume by refilling the sample bottle to the mark and transferring the liquid to an appropriately sized graduated cylinder. Record the sample volume to the nearest 5 mL. Sample volumes may also be determined by weighing the container before and after extraction or filling to the mark with water.

11.1 Cleanup may not be necessary for relatively clean samples (e.g., treated effluents, groundwater, drinking water). If particular circumstances require the use of a cleanup procedure, the laboratory may use any or all of the procedures below or any other appropriate procedure (e.g., gel permeation chromatography). However, the laboratory must first repeat the tests in sections 8.2, 8.3, and 8.4 to demonstrate that the requirements of those sections can be met using the cleanup procedure(s) as an integral part of this method. This is particularly important when the target analytes for the analysis include any of the single component pesticides in Table 2, because some cleanups have not been optimized for all of those analytes.

11.1.1 The solid-phase cartridge (section 11.2) removes polar organic compounds such as phenols.

11.1.2 The Florisil&#xAE; column (section 11.3) allows for selected fractionation of the organochlorine analytes and will also eliminate polar interferences.

11.1.3 Alumina column cleanup (section 11.4) also removes polar materials.

11.1.4 Elemental sulfur, which interferes with the electron capture gas chromatography of some of the pesticides, may be removed using activated copper, or TBA sulfite. Sulfur removal (section 11.5) is required when sulfur is known or suspected to be present. Some chlorinated pesticides which also contain sulfur may be removed by this cleanup.

11.1.5 Acid back extraction (section 11.6) may be useful for cleanup of PCBs and other compounds not adversely affected by sulfuric acid.

11.2 Solid-phase extraction (SPE) as a cleanup. In order to use the C18 SPE cartridge in section 5.5.3.5 as a cleanup procedure, the sample extract must be exchanged from methylene chloride to methylene chloride:acetonitrile:hexane (50:3:47). Follow the solvent exchange steps in section 10.3.3.2 prior to attempting solid-phase cleanup.

11.2.1 Setup.

11.2.1.1 Attach the VacElute Manifold (section 5.5.3.2) to a water aspirator or vacuum pump with the trap and gauge installed between the manifold and vacuum source.

11.2.1.2 Place the SPE cartridges in the manifold, turn on the vacuum source, and adjust the vacuum to 5 to 10 psi.

11.2.2 Cartridge washing-Pre-elute each cartridge prior to use sequentially with 10-mL portions each of hexane, methanol, and water using vacuum for 30 seconds after each eluting solvent. Follow this pre-elution with 1 mL methylene chloride and three 10-mL portions of the elution solvent (section 6.7.2.2) using vacuum for 5 minutes after each eluting solvent. Tap the cartridge lightly while under vacuum to dry between solvent rinses. The three portions of elution solvent may be collected and used as a cartridge blank, if desired. Finally, elute the cartridge with 10 mL each of methanol and water, using the vacuum for 30 seconds after each eluant.

11.2.3 Extract cleanup.

11.2.3.1 After cartridge washing (section 11.2.2), release the vacuum and place the rack containing the 50-mL volumetric flasks (section 5.5.3.4) in the vacuum manifold. Re-establish the vacuum at 5 to 10 psi.

11.2.3.2 Using a pipette or a 1-mL syringe, transfer 1.0 mL of extract to the SPE cartridge. Apply vacuum for five minutes to dry the cartridge. Tap gently to aid in drying.

11.2.3.3 Elute each cartridge into its volumetric flask sequentially with three 10-mL portions of the methylene chloride:acetonitrile:hexane (50:3:47) elution solvent (section 6.7.2.2), using vacuum for five minutes after each portion. Collect the eluants in the 50-mL volumetric flasks.

11.2.3.4 Release the vacuum and remove the 50-mL volumetric flasks.

11.2.3.5 Concentrate the eluted extracts per Section 10.3.

11.3 Florisil&#xAE;. In order to use Florisil cleanup, the sample extract must be exchanged from methylene chloride to hexane. Follow the solvent exchange steps in section 10.3.3.2 prior to attempting Florisil&#xAE; cleanup.

11.3.1 If the chromatographic column does not contain a frit at the bottom, place a small plug of pre-cleaned glass wool in the column (section 5.2.4) to retain the Florisil&#xAE;. Place the mass of Florisil&#xAE; (nominally 20 g) predetermined by calibration (section 7.8 and Table 6) in a chromatographic column. Tap the column to settle the Florisil&#xAE; and add 1 to 2 cm of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to the top.

11.3.2 Add 60 mL of hexane to wet and rinse the sodium sulfate and Florisil&#xAE;. Just prior to exposure of the sodium sulfate layer to the air, stop the elution of the hexane by closing the stopcock on the chromatographic column. Discard the eluant.

11.3.3 Transfer the concentrated extract (section 10.3.3) onto the column. Complete the transfer with two 1-mL hexane rinses, drawing the extract and rinses down to the level of the sodium sulfate.

11.3.4 Place a clean 500-mL K-D flask and concentrator tube under the column. Elute Fraction 1 with 200 mL of 6% (v/v) ethyl ether in hexane at a rate of approximately 5 mL/min. Remove the K-D flask and set it aside for later concentration. Elute Fraction 2 with 200 mL of 15% (v/v) ethyl ether in hexane into a second K-D flask. Elute Fraction 3 with 200 mL of 50% (v/v) ethyl ether in hexane into a third K-D flask. The elution patterns for the pesticides and PCBs are shown in Table 6.

11.3.5 Concentrate the fractions as in Section 10.3, except use hexane to prewet the column and set the water bath at about 85 &#xB0;C. When the apparatus is cool, remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with hexane. Adjust the volume of Fraction 1 to approximately 10 mL for sulfur removal (Section 11.5), if required; otherwise, adjust the volume of the fractions to 10 mL, 1.0 mL, or other volume needed for the sensitivity desired. Analyze the concentrated extract by gas chromatography (Section 12).

11.4 Alumina. The sample extract must be exchanged from methylene chloride to hexane. Follow the solvent exchange steps in section 10.3.3.2 prior to attempting alumina cleanup.

11.4.1 If the chromatographic column does not contain a frit at the bottom, place a small plug of pre-cleaned glass wool in the chromatographic column (section 5.2.4) to retain the alumina. Add 10 g of alumina (section 6.7.3) on top of the plug. Tap the column to settle the alumina. Place 1-2 g of anhydrous sodium sulfate on top of the alumina.

11.4.2 Close the stopcock and fill the column to just above the sodium sulfate with hexane. Add 25 mL of hexane. Open the stopcock and adjust the flow rate of hexane to approximately 2 mL/min. Do not allow the column to go dry throughout the elutions.

11.4.3 When the level of the hexane is at the top of the column, quantitatively transfer the extract to the column. When the level of the extract is at the top of the column, slowly add 25 mL of hexane and elute the column to the level of the sodium sulfate. Discard the hexane.

11.4.4 Place a K-D flask (section 5.2.5.1.2) under the column and elute the pesticides with approximately 150 mL of hexane:ethyl ether (80:20 v/v). It may be necessary to adjust the volume of elution solvent for slightly different alumina activities.

11.4.5 Concentrate the extract per section 10.3.

11.5 Sulfur removal-Elemental sulfur will usually elute in Fraction 1 of the Florisil&#xAE; column cleanup. If Florisil&#xAE; cleanup is not used, or to remove sulfur from any of the Florisil&#xAE; fractions, use one of the sulfur removal procedures below. These procedures may be applied to extracts in hexane, ethyl ether, or methylene chloride.

11.5.1 Removal with copper (Reference 15).

11.5.1.1 Quantitatively transfer the extract to a 40- to 50-mL flask or bottle. If there is evidence of water in the K-D or round-bottom flask after the transfer, rinse the flask with small portions of hexane:acetone (40:60) and add to the flask or bottle. Mark and set aside the concentration flask for future use.

11.5.1.2 Add 10-20 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to the flask. Swirl to dry the extract.

11.5.1.3 Add activated copper (section 6.7.4.1.4) and allow to stand for 30-60 minutes, swirling occasionally. If the copper does not remain bright, add more and swirl occasionally for another 30-60 minutes.

11.5.1.4 After drying and sulfur removal, quantitatively transfer the extract to a nitrogen-evaporation vial or tube and proceed to section 10.3.3 for nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange, taking care to leave the sodium sulfate and copper foil in the flask.

11.5.2 Removal with TBA sulfite.

11.5.2.1 Using small volumes of hexane, quantitatively transfer the extract to a 40- to 50-mL centrifuge tube with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap.

11.5.2.2 Add 1-2 mL of TBA sulfite reagent (section 6.7.4.2.4), 2-3 mL of 2-propanol, and approximately 0.7 g of sodium sulfite (section 6.7.4.2.2) crystals to the tube. Cap and shake for 1-2 minutes. If the sample is colorless or if the initial color is unchanged, and if clear crystals (precipitated sodium sulfite) are observed, sufficient sodium sulfite is present. If the precipitated sodium sulfite disappears, add more crystalline sodium sulfite in approximately 0.5-g portions until a solid residue remains after repeated shaking.

11.5.2.3 Add 5-10 mL of reagent water and shake for 1-2 minutes. Centrifuge to settle the solids.

11.5.2.4 Quantitatively transfer the hexane (top) layer through a small funnel containing a few grams of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to a nitrogen-evaporation vial or tube and proceed to section 10.3.3 for micro-concentration and solvent exchange.

11.6 Acid back extraction (section 6.1.2).

11.6.1 Quantitatively transfer the extract (section 10.3.1.5) to a 250-mL separatory funnel.

11.6.2 Partition the extract against 50 mL of sulfuric acid solution (section 6.1.2). Discard the aqueous layer. Repeat the acid washing until no color is visible in the aqueous layer, to a maximum of four washings.

11.6.3 Partition the extract against 50 mL of sodium chloride solution (section 6.7.5). Discard the aqueous layer.

11.6.4 Proceed to section 10.3.3 for micro-concentration and solvent exchange.

12.1 Establish the same operating conditions used in section 7.1 for instrument calibration.

12.2 If the internal standard calibration procedure is used, add the internal standard solution (section 6.9.3) to the extract as close as possible to the time of injection to minimize the possibility of loss by evaporation, adsorption, or reaction. For example, add 1 µL of 10 µg/mL internal standard solution into the extract, assuming no dilutions. Mix thoroughly.

12.3 Simultaneously inject an appropriate volume of the sample extract or standard solution onto both columns, using split, splitless, solvent purge, large-volume, or on-column injection. Alternatively, if using a single-column GC configuration, inject an appropriate volume of the sample extract or standard solution onto each GC column independently. If the sample is injected manually, the solvent-flush technique should be used. The injection volume depends upon the technique used and the sensitivity needed to meet MDLs or reporting limits for regulatory compliance. Injection volumes must be the same for all extracts. Record the volume injected to the nearest 0.05 µL.

12.4 Set the data system or GC control to start the temperature program upon sample injection, and begin data collection after the solvent peak elutes. Set the data system to stop data collection after the last analyte is expected to elute and to return the column to the initial temperature.

12.5 Perform all qualitative and quantitative measurements as described in Sections 14 and 15. When standards and extracts are not being used for analyses, store them refrigerated at <6 &#xB0;C, protected from light, in screw-cap vials equipped with un-pierced fluoropolymer-lined septa.

13.1 At the beginning of each shift during which standards or extracts are analyzed, GC system performance and calibration must be verified for all analytes and surrogates on both column/detector systems. Adjustment and/or recalibration (per section 7) are performed until all performance criteria are met. Only after all performance criteria are met may samples, blanks and other QC samples, and standards be analyzed.

13.2 Inject an aliquot of the calibration verification standard (section 6.8.4) on both columns. Inject an aliquot of each of the multi-component standards.

13.3 Retention times-The absolute retention times of the peak maxima shall be within +/-2 seconds of the retention times in the calibration verification (section 7.8).

13.4 GC resolution-Resolution is acceptable if the valley height between two peaks (as measured from the baseline) is less than 40% of the shorter of the two peaks.

13.4.1 DB-608 column-DDT and endrin aldehyde
