
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.,

14.5.1 Determine the consistency of the RT data for the analyte on each column. For example, if the RT is very stable (varies by no more than a few seconds) for the calibration, calibration verification, blank, LCS, and MS/MSD, the RT for the analyte of interest in the sample should be within this variation regardless of the window established in Section 14.2. If the analyte is not within this variation on both columns, it is likely not present.

14.5.2 The possibility exists that the RT for the analyte in a sample could shift if extraneous materials are present. This possibility may be able to be confirmed or refuted by the behavior of the surrogates in the sample. If multiple surrogates are used that span the length of the chromatographic run, the RTs for the surrogates on both columns are consistent with their RTs in calibration, calibration verification, blank, LCS, and MS/MSD, it is unlikely that the RT for the analyte of interest has shifted.

14.5.3 If the RT for the analyte is shifted slightly later on one column and earlier on the other, and the surrogates have not shifted, it is highly unlikely that the analyte is present, because shifts nearly always occur in the same direction on both columns.

15.1 External standard quantitation-Calculate the concentration of the analyte in the extract using the calibration curve or average calibration factor determined in calibration (section 7.5.2) and the following equation:

15.2 Internal standard quantitation-Calculate the concentration of the analyte in the extract using the calibration curve or average response factor determined in calibration (section 7.6.2) and the following equation:

15.3 Calculate the concentration of the analyte in the sample using the concentration in the extract, the extract volume, the sample volume, and the dilution factor, per the following equation:

15.4 If the concentration of any target analyte exceeds the calibration range, either extract and analyze a smaller sample volume, or dilute and analyze the diluted extract.

15.5 Quantitation of multi-component analytes.

15.5.1 PCBs as Aroclors. Quantify an Aroclor by comparing the sample chromatogram to that of the most similar Aroclor standard as indicated in section 14.3.2. Compare the responses of 3 to 5 major peaks in the calibration standard for that Aroclor with the peaks observed in the sample extract. The amount of Aroclor is calculated using the individual calibration factor for each of the 3 to 5 characteristic peaks chosen in section 7.5.1. Determine the concentration of each of the characteristic peaks, using the average calibration factor calculated for that peak in section 7.5.2, and then those 3 to 5 concentrations are averaged to determine the concentration of that Aroclor.

15.5.2 Other multi-component analytes. Quantify any other multi-component analytes (technical chlordane or toxaphene) using the same peaks used to develop the average calibration factors in section 7.5.2. Determine the concentration of each of the characteristic peaks, and then the concentrations represented by those characteristic peaks are averaged to determine the concentration of the analyte. Alternatively, for toxaphene, the analyst may determine the calibration factor in section 7.5.2 by summing the areas of all of the peaks for the analyte and using the summed of the peak areas in the sample chromatogram to determine the concentration. However, the approach used for toxaphene must be the same for the calibration and the sample analyses.

15.6 Reporting of results. As noted in section 1.6.1, EPA has promulgated this method at 40 CFR part 136 for use in wastewater compliance monitoring under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The data reporting practices described here are focused on such monitoring needs and may not be relevant to other uses of the method.

15.6.1 Report results for wastewater samples in µg/L without correction for recovery. (Other units may be used if required by in a permit.) Report all QC data with the sample results.

15.6.2 Reporting level. Unless specified otherwise by a regulatory authority or in a discharge permit, results for analytes that meet the identification criteria are reported down to the concentration of the ML established by the laboratory through calibration of the instrument (see section 7.5 or 7.6 and the glossary for the derivation of the ML). EPA considers the terms "reporting limit," "quantitation limit," and "minimum level" to be synonymous.

15.6.2.1 Report the lower result from the two columns (see section 15.7 below) for each analyte in each sample or QC standard at or above the ML to 3 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte in each sample or QC standard below the ML as "<ML," where "ML" is the concentration of the analyte at the ML (e.g., if the ML is 10 µg/L, then report the result as <10 µg/L), or as required by the regulatory authority or permit. Report a result for each analyte in a blank at or above the MDL to 2 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in a blank below the MDL as "<MDL," where MDL is the concentration of the analyte at the MDL, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit.

15.6.2.2 In addition to reporting results for samples and blank(s) separately, the concentration of each analyte in a blank or field blank associated with that sample may be subtracted from the result for that sample, but only if requested or required by a regulatory authority or in a permit. In this case, both the sample result and the blank results must be reported together.
