
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.,

15.6.2.4 Results from tests performed with an analytical system that is not in control (that does not meet acceptance criteria for all of QC tests in this method) must not be reported or otherwise used for permitting or regulatory compliance purposes, but do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results. See section 8.1.7 for dispositions of failures. If the holding time would be exceeded for a re-analysis of the sample, the regulatory/control authority should be consulted for disposition.

15.6.3 Analyze the sample by GC/MS or on a third column when analytes have co-eluted or interfere with determination on both columns.

15.7 Quantitative information that may aid in the confirmation of the presence of an analyte.

15.7.1 As noted in Section 14.3, the relative agreement between the numerical results from the two GC columns may be used to support the identification of the target analyte by providing evidence that co-eluting interferences are not present at the retention time of the target analyte. Calculate the percent difference (%D) between the results for the analyte from both columns, as follows:

In general, if the %D of the two results is less than 50% (e.g., a factor of 2), then the pesticide is present. This %D is generous and allows for the pesticide that has the largest measurement error.

15.7.2 If the amounts do not agree, and the RT data indicate the presence of the analyte (per Section 14), it is likely that a positive interference is present on the column that yielded the higher result. That interferent may be represented by a separate peak on the other column that does not coincide with the retention time of any of the target analytes. If the interfering peak is evident on the other column, report the result from that column and advise the data user that the interference resulted in a %D value greater than 50%. If an interferent is not identifiable on the second column, then the results must be reported as "not detected" at the lower concentration. In this event, the pesticide is not confirmed and the reporting limit is elevated. See section 8.1.7 for disposition of problem results.

16.1 Some samples may contain high levels (greater than 1 µg/L) of the analytes of interest, interfering analytes, and/or polymeric materials. Some samples may not concentrate to 1.0 mL (section 10.3.3.3.2); others may overload the GC column and/or detector.

16.2 When an interference is known or suspected to be present, the laboratory should attempt to clean up the sample extract using the SPE cartridge (section 11.2), by Florisil&#xAE; (Section 11.3), Alumina (Section 11.4), sulfur removal (section 11.5), or another clean up procedure appropriate to the analytes of interest. If these techniques do not remove the interference, the extract is diluted by a known factor and reanalyzed (section 12). Dilution until the extract is lightly colored is preferable. Typical dilution factors are 2, 5, and 10.

16.3 Recovery of surrogate(s)-In most samples, surrogate recoveries will be similar to those from reagent water. If surrogate recovery is outside the limits developed in Section 8.6, re-extract and reanalyze the sample if there is sufficient sample and if it is within the 7-day extraction holding time. If surrogate recovery is still outside this range, extract and analyze one-tenth the volume of sample to overcome any matrix interference problems. If a sample is highly colored or suspected to be high in concentration, a 1-L sample aliquot and a 100-mL sample aliquot could be extracted simultaneously and still meet the holding time criteria, while providing information about a complex matrix.

16.4 Recovery of the matrix spike and matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD)-In most samples, MS/MSD recoveries will be similar to those from reagent water. If either the MS or MSD recovery is outside the range specified in Section 8.3.3, one-tenth the volume of sample is spiked and analyzed. If the matrix spike recovery is still outside the range, the result for the unspiked sample may not be reported or used for permitting or regulatory compliance purposes. See Section 8.1.7 for dispositions of failures. Poor matrix spike recovery does not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.

17.1 This method was tested for linearity of spike recovery from reagent water and has been demonstrated to be applicable over the concentration range from 4x MDL to 1000x MDL with the following exceptions: Chlordane recovery at 4x MDL was low (60%); Toxaphene recovery was demonstrated linear over the range of 10x MDL to 1000x MDL (Reference 3).

17.2 The 1984 version of this method was tested by 20 laboratories using reagent water, drinking water, surface water, and three industrial wastewaters spiked at six concentrations (Reference 2). Concentrations used in the study ranged from 0.5 to 30 µg/L for single-component pesticides and from 8.5 to 400 µg/L for multi-component analytes. These data are for a subset of analytes described in the current version of the method.

17.3 During the development of Method 1656, a similar EPA procedure for the organochlorine pesticides, single-operator precision, overall precision, and method accuracy were found to be directly related to the concentration of the analyte and essentially independent of the sample matrix. Linear equations to describe these relationships are presented in Table 5.

18.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Many opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operations. EPA has established a preferred hierarchy of environmental management techniques that places pollution prevention as the management option of first choice. Whenever feasible, the laboratory should use pollution prevention techniques to address waste generation. When wastes cannot be reduced at the source, the Agency recommends recycling as the next best option.

18.2 The analytes in this method are used in extremely small amounts and pose little threat to the environment when managed properly. Standards should be prepared in volumes consistent with laboratory use to minimize the disposal of excess volumes of expired standards. This method utilizes significant quantities of methylene chloride. Laboratories are encouraged to recover and recycle this and other solvents during extract concentration.

18.3 For information about pollution prevention that may be applied to laboratories and research institutions, consult "Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction" (Reference 19), available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Governmental Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

19.1 The laboratory is responsible for complying with all Federal, State, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. An overview of requirements can be found in Environmental Management Guide for Small Laboratories (EPA 233-B-98-001).

19.2 Samples at pH <2, or pH >12, are hazardous and must be handled and disposed of as hazardous waste, or neutralized and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations. It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions. The laboratory using this method has the responsibility to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. For further information on waste management, see "The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel," also available from the American Chemical Society at the address in section 18.3.

19.3 Many analytes in this method decompose above 500 &#xB0;C. Low-level waste such as absorbent paper, tissues, animal remains, and plastic gloves may be burned in an appropriate incinerator. Gross quantities of neat or highly concentrated solutions of toxic or hazardous chemicals should be packaged securely and disposed of through commercial or governmental channels that are capable of handling toxic wastes.

19.4 For further information on waste management, consult The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

These definitions and purposes are specific to this method but have been conformed to common usage to the extent possible.

23.1 Units of weight and measure and their abbreviations.

23.1.1 Symbols.

23.1.2 Abbreviations (in alphabetical order).

23.2 Definitions and acronyms (in alphabetical order)

Analyte-A compound or mixture of compounds (e.g., PCBs) tested for by this method. The analytes are listed in Tables 1 and 2.

Analytical batch-The set of samples analyzed on a given instrument during a 24-hour period that begins and ends with calibration verification (sections 7.8 and 13). See also "Extraction batch."

Blank (method blank; laboratory blank)-An aliquot of reagent water that is treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, internal standards, and surrogates that are used with samples. The blank is used to determine if analytes or interferences are present in the laboratory environment, the reagents, or the apparatus.

Calibration factor (CF)-See section 7.5.1.

Calibration standard-A solution prepared from stock solutions and/or a secondary standards and containing the analytes of interest, surrogates, and internal standards. This standard is used to model the response of the GC instrument against analyte concentration.

Calibration verification-The process of confirming that the response of the analytical system remains within specified limits of the calibration.

Calibration verification standard-The standard (section 6.8.4) used to verify calibration (sections 7.8 and 13.6).

Extraction Batch-A set of up to 20 field samples (not including QC samples) started through the extraction process in a given 24-hour shift. Each extraction batch of 20 or fewer samples must be accompanied by a blank (section 8.5), a laboratory control sample (LCS, section 8.4), a matrix spike and duplicate (MS/MSD; section 8.3), resulting in a minimum of five samples (1 field sample, 1 blank, 1 LCS, 1 MS, and 1 MSD) and a maximum of 24 samples (20 field samples, 1 blank, 1 LCS, 1 MS, and 1 MSD) for the batch. If greater than 20 samples are to be extracted in a 24-hour shift, the samples must be separated into extraction batches of 20 or fewer samples.

Field Duplicates-Two samples collected at the same time and place under identical conditions, and treated identically throughout field and laboratory procedures. Results of analyses the field duplicates provide an estimate of the precision associated with sample collection, preservation, and storage, as well as with laboratory procedures.

Field blank-An aliquot of reagent water or other reference matrix that is placed in a sample container in the field, and treated as a sample in all respects, including exposure to sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the field blank is to determine if the field or sample transporting procedures and environments have contaminated the sample. See also "Blank."

GC-Gas chromatograph or gas chromatography.

Gel-permeation chromatography (GPC)-A form of liquid chromatography in which the analytes are separated based on exclusion from the solid phase by size.

Internal standard-A compound added to an extract or standard solution in a known amount and used as a reference for quantitation of the analytes of interest and surrogates. Also see Internal standard quantitation.

Internal standard quantitation-A means of determining the concentration of an analyte of interest (Tables 1 and 2) by reference to a compound not expected to be found in a sample.

IDC-Initial Demonstration of Capability (section 8.2); four aliquots of a reference matrix spiked with the analytes of interest and analyzed to establish the ability of the laboratory to generate acceptable precision and recovery. An IDC is performed prior to the first time this method is used and any time the method or instrumentation is modified.

Laboratory Control Sample (LCS; laboratory fortified blank; section 8.4)-An aliquot of reagent water spiked with known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates. The LCS is analyzed exactly like a sample. Its purpose is to assure that the results produced by the laboratory remain within the limits specified in this method for precision and recovery.

Laboratory Fortified Sample Matrix-See Matrix spike.

Laboratory reagent blank-See blank.

Matrix spike (MS) and matrix spike duplicate (MSD) (laboratory fortified sample matrix and duplicate)-Two aliquots of an environmental sample to which known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates are added in the laboratory. The MS/MSD are prepared and analyzed exactly like a field sample. Their purpose is to quantify any additional bias and imprecision caused by the sample matrix. The background concentrations of the analytes in the sample matrix must be determined in a separate aliquot and the measured values in the MS/MSD corrected for background concentrations.

May-This action, activity, or procedural step is neither required nor prohibited.

May not-This action, activity, or procedural step is prohibited.

Method detection limit (MDL)-A detection limit determined by the procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The MDLs determined by EPA are listed in Tables 1 and 2. As noted in section 1.6, use the MDLs in Tables 1 and 2 in conjunction with current MDL data from the laboratory actually analyzing samples to assess the sensitivity of this procedure relative to project objectives and regulatory requirements (where applicable).

Minimum level (ML)-The term "minimum level" refers to either the sample concentration equivalent to the lowest calibration point in a method or a multiple of the method detection limit (MDL), whichever is higher. Minimum levels may be obtained in several ways: They may be published in a method; they may be based on the lowest acceptable calibration point used by a laboratory; or they may be calculated by multiplying the MDL in a method, or the MDL determined by a laboratory, by a factor of 3. For the purposes of NPDES compliance monitoring, EPA considers the following terms to be synonymous: "quantitation limit," "reporting limit," and "minimum level."

MS-Mass spectrometer or mass spectrometry.

Must-This action, activity, or procedural step is required.

Preparation blank-See blank.

Reagent water-Water demonstrated to be free from the analytes of interest and potentially interfering substances at the MDLs for the analytes in this method.

Regulatory compliance limit-A limit on the concentration or amount of a pollutant or contaminant specified in a nationwide standard, in a permit, or otherwise established by a regulatory/control authority.

Relative standard deviation (RSD)-The standard deviation times 100 divided by the mean. Also termed "coefficient of variation."

RF-Response factor. See section 7.6.2.

RPD-Relative percent difference.

RSD-See relative standard deviation.

Safety Data Sheet (SDS)-Written information on a chemical's toxicity, health hazards, physical properties, fire, and reactivity, including storage, spill, and handling precautions that meet the requirements of OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and appendix D to § 1910.1200. United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), third revised edition, United Nations, 2009.

Should-This action, activity, or procedural step is suggested but not required.

SPE-Solid-phase extraction; a sample extraction or extract cleanup technique in which an analyte is selectively removed from a sample or extract by passage over or through a material capable of reversibly adsorbing the analyte.

Stock solution-A solution containing an analyte that is prepared using a reference material traceable to EPA, the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), or a source that will attest to the purity and authenticity of the reference material.

Surrogate-A compound unlikely to be found in a sample, which is spiked into the sample in a known amount before extraction, and which is quantified with the same procedures used to quantify other sample components. The purpose of the surrogate is to monitor method performance with each sample.

1.1 This method covers the determination of certain nitroaromatics and isophorone. The following parameters may be determined by this method:

1.2 This is a gas chromatographic (GC) method applicable to the determination of the compounds listed above in municipal and industrial discharges as provided under 40 CFR 136.1. When this method is used to analyze unfamiliar samples for any or all of the compounds above, compound identifications should be supported by at least one additional qualitative technique. This method describes analytical conditions for a second gas chromatographic column that can be used to confirm measurements made with the primary column. Method 625 provides gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer (GC/MS) conditions appropriate for the qualitative and quantitative confirmation of results for all of the parameters listed above, using the extract produced by this method.

1.3 The method detection limit (MDL, defined in Section 14.1)for each parameter is listed in Table 1. The MDL for a specific wastewater may differ from those listed, depending upon the nature of interferences in the sample matrix.

1.4 The sample extraction and concentration steps in this method are essentially the same as in Methods 606, 608, 611, and 612. Thus, a single sample may be extracted to measure the parameters included in the scope of each of these methods. When cleanup is required, the concentration levels must be high enough to permit selecting aliquots, as necessary, to apply appropriate cleanup procedures. The analyst is allowed the latitude, under Section 12, to select chromatographic conditions appropriate for the simultaneous measurement of combinations of these parameters.

1.5 Any modification of this method, beyond those expressly permitted, shall be considered as a major modification subject to application and approval of alternate test procedures under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.

1.6 This method is restricted to use by or under the supervision of analysts experienced in the use of a gas chromatograph and in the interpretation of gas chromatograms. Each analyst must demonstrate the ability to generate acceptable results with this method using the procedure described in Section 8.2.

2.1 A measured volume of sample, approximately 1-L, is extracted with methylene chloride using a separatory funnel. The methylene chloride extract is dried and exchanged to hexane during concentration to a volume of 10 mL or less. Isophorone and nitrobenzene are measured by flame ionization detector gas chromatography (FIDGC). The dinitrotoluenes are measured by electron capture detector gas chromatography (ECDGC).

2.2 The method provides a Florisil column cleanup procedure to aid in the elimination of interferences that may be encountered.

3.1 Method interferences may be caused by contaminants in solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing hardware that lead to discrete artifacts and/or elevated baseliles in gas chromatograms. All of these materials must be routinely demonstrated to be free from interferences under the conditions of the analysis by running laboratory reagent blanks as described in Section 8.1.3.

3.1.1 Glassware must be scrupulously cleaned.Clean all glassware as soon as possible after use by rinsing with the last solvent used in it. Solvent rinsing should be followed by detergent washing with hot water, and rinses with tap water and distilled water. The glassware should then be drained dry, and heated in a muffle furnace at 400 &#xB0;C for 15 to 30 min. Some thermally stable materials, such as PCBs, may not be eliminated by this treatment. Solvent rinses with acetone and pesticide quality hexane may be substituted for the muffle furnace heating. Thorough rinsing with such solvents usually eliminates PCB interference. Volumetric ware should not be heated in a muffle furnace. After drying and cooling, glassware should be sealed and stored in a clean environment to prevent any accumulation of dust or other contaminants. Store inverted or capped with aluminum foil.

3.1.2 The use of high purity reagents and solvents helps to minimize interference problems. Purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required.

3.2 Matrix interferences may be caused by contaminants that are co-extracted from the sample. The extent of matrix interferences will vary considerably from source to source, depending upon the nature and diversity of the industrial complex or municipality being sampled. The cleanup procedure in Section 11 can be used to overcome many of these interferences, but unique samples may require additional cleanup approaches to achieve the MDL listed in Table 1.

4.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each reagent used in this method has not been precisely defined; however, each chemical compound should be treated as a potential health hazard. From this viewpoint, exposure to these chemicals must be reduced to the lowest possible level by whatever means available. The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of material data handling sheets should also be made available to all personnel involved in the chemical analysis. Additional references to laboratory safety are available and have been identifiedfor the information of the analyst.

5.1 Sampling equipment, for discrete or composite sampling.

5.1.1 Grab sample bottle-1-L or 1-qt, amber glass, fitted with a screw cap lined with Teflon. Foil may be substituted for Teflon if the sample is not corrosive. If amber bottles are not available, protect samples from light. The bottle and cap liner must be washed, rinsed with acetone or methylene chloride, and dried before use to minimize contamination.

5.1.2 Automatic sampler (optional)-The sampler must incorporate glass sample containers for the collection of a minimum of 250 mL of sample. Sample containers must be kept refrigerated at 4 &#xB0;C and protected from light during compositing. If the sampler uses a peristaltic pump, a minimum length of compressible silicone rubber tubing may be used. Before use, however, the compressible tubing should be thoroughly rinsed with methanol, followed by repeated rinsings with distilled water to minimize the potential for contamination of the sample. An integrating flow meter is required to collect flow proportional composites.

5.2 Glassware (All specifications are suggested. Catalog numbers are included for illustration only.):

5.2.1 Separatory funnel-2-L, with Teflon stopcock.

5.2.2 Drying column-Chromatographic column, approximately 400 mm long x 19 mm ID, with coarse frit filter disc.

5.2.3 Chromatographic column-100 mm long x 10 mm ID, with Teflon stopcock.

5.2.4 Concentrator tube, Kuderna-Danish-10-mL, graduated (Kontes K-570050-1025 or equivalent). Calibration must be checked at the volumes employed in the test. Ground glass stopper is used to prevent evaporation of extracts.

5.2.5 Evaporative flask, Kuderna-Danish-500-mL (Kontes K-570001-0500 or equivalent). Attach to concentrator tube with springs.

5.2.6 Snyder column, Kuderna-Danish-Three-ball macro (Kontes K-503000-0121 or equivalent).

5.2.7 Snyder column, Kuderna-Danish-Two-ball micro (Kontes K-569001-0219 or equivalent).

5.2.8 Vials-10 to 15-mL, amber glass, with Teflon-lined screw cap.

5.3 Boiling chips-Approximately 10/40 mesh. Heat to 400 &#xB0;C for 30 min or Soxhlet extract with methylene chloride.

5.4 Water bath-Heated, with concentric ring cover, capable of temperature control (+/-2 &#xB0;C). The bath should be used in a hood.

5.5 Balance-Analytical, capable of accurately weighing 0.0001 g.

5.6 Gas chromatograph-An analytical system complete with gas chromatograph suitable for on-column injection and all required accessories including syringes, analytical columns, gases, detector, and strip-chart recorder. A data system is recommended for measuring peak areas.

5.6.1 Column 1-1.2 m long x 2 or 4 mm ID glass, packed with 1.95% QF-1/1.5% OV-17 on Gas-Chrom Q (80/100 mesh) or equivalent. This column was used to develop the method performance statements given in Section 14. Guidelines for the use of alternate column packings are provided in Section 12.1.

5.6.2 Column 2-3.0 m long x 2 or 4 mm ID glass, packed with 3% OV-101 on Gas-Chrom Q (80/100 mesh) or equivalent.

5.6.3 Detectors-Flame ionization and electron capture detectors. The flame ionization detector (FID) is used when determining isophorone and nitrobenzene. The electron capture detector (ECD) is used when determining the dinitrotoluenes. Both detectors have proven effective in the analysis of wastewaters and were used in develop the method performance statements in Section 14. Guidelines for the use to alternate detectors are provided in Section 12.1.

6.1 Reagent water-Reagent water is defined as a water in which an interferent is not observed at the MDL of the parameters of interest.

6.2 Sodium hydroxide solution (10 N)-Dissolve 40 g of NaOH (ACS) in reagent water and dilute to 100 mL.

6.3 Sulfuric acid (1 + 1)-Slowly, add 50 mL of HSO(ACS, sp. gr. 1.84) to 50 mL of reagent water.

6.4 Acetone, hexane, methanol, methylene chloride-Pesticide quality or equivalent.

6.5 Sodium sulfate-(ACS) Granular, anhydrous. Purify by heating at 400 &#xB0;C for 4 h in a shallow tray.

6.6 Florisil-PR grade (60/100 mesh). Purchase activated at 1250 &#xB0;F and store in dark in glass containers with ground glass stoppers or foil-lined screw caps. Before use, activate each batch at least 16 h at 200 &#xB0;C in a foil-covered glass container and allow to cool.

6.7 Stock standard solutions (1.00 µg/µL)-Stock standard solutions can be prepared from pure standard materials or purchased as certified solutions.

6.7.1 Prepare stock standard solutions by accurately weighing about 0.0100 g of pure material. Dissolve the material in hexane and dilute to volume in a 10-mL volumetric flask. Larger volumes can be used at the convenience of the analyst. When compound purity is assayed to be 96% or greater, the weight can be used without correction to calculate the concentration of the stock standard. Commercially prepared stock standards can be used at any concentration if they are certified by the manufacturer or by an independent source.

6.7.2 Transfer the stock standard solutions into Teflon-sealed screw-cap bottles. Store at 4 &#xB0;C and protect from light. Stock standard solutions should be checked frequently for signs of degradation or evaporation, especially just prior to preparing calibration standards from them.

6.7.3 Stock standard solutions must be replaced after six months, or sooner if comparison with check standards indicates a problem.

6.8 Quality control check sample concentrate-See Section 8.2.1.

7.1 Establish gas chromatographic operating conditions equivalent to those given in Table 1. The gas chromatographic system can be calibrated using the external standard technique (Section 7.2) or the internal standard technique (Section 7.3).

7.2 External standard calibration procedure:

7.2.1 Prepare calibration standards at a minimum of three concentration levels for each parameter of interest by adding volumes of one or more stock standards to a volumetric flask and diluting to volume with hexane. One of the external standards should be at a concentration near, but above, the MDL (Table 1) and the other concentrations should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples or should define the working range of the detector.

7.2.2 Using injections of 2 to 5 µL, analyze each calibration standard according to Section 12 and tabulate peak height or area responses against the mass injected. The results can be used to prepare a calibration curve for each compound. Alternatively, if the ratio of response to amount injected (calibration factor) is a constant over the working range (<10% relative standard deviation, RSD) linearity through the origin can be assumed and the average ratio or calibration factor can be used in place of a calibration curve.

7.3 Internal standard calibration procedure-To use this approach, the analyst must select one or more internal standards that are similar in analytical behavior to the compounds of interest. The analyst must further demonstrate that the measurement of the internal standard is not affected by method or matrix interferences. Because of these limitations, no internal standard can be suggested that is applicable to all samples.

7.3.1 Prepare calibration standards at a minimum of three concentration levels for each parameter of interest by adding volumes of one or more stock standards to a volumetric flash. To each calibration standard, add a known constant amount of one or more internal standards, and dilute to volume with hexane. One of the standards should be at a concentration near, but above, the MDL and the other concentrations should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples or should define the working range of the detector.

7.3.2 Using injections of 2 to 5 µL, analyze each calibration standard according to Section 12 and tabulate peak height or area responses against concentration for each compound and internal standard. Calculate response factors (RF) for each compound using Equation 1.

Equation 1.

If the RF value over the working range is a constant (<10% RSD), the RF can be assumed to be invariant and the average RF can be used for calculations. Alternatively, the results can be used to plot a calibration curve of response ratios, A/A, vs. RF.

7.4 The working calibration curve, calibration factor, or RF must be verified on each working day by the measurement of one or more calibration standards. If the response for any parameter varies from the predicted response by more than +/-15%, a new calibration curve must be prepared for that compound.

7.5 Before using any cleanup procedure, the analyst must process a series of calibration standards through the procedure to validate elution patterns and the absence of interferences from the reagents.

8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality control program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and an ongoing analysis of spiked samples to evaluate and document data quality. The laboratory must maintain records to document the quality of data that is generated. Ongoing data quality checks are compared with established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics of the method. When results of sample spikes indicate atypical method performance, a quality control check standard must be analyzed to confirm that the measurements were performed in an in-control mode of operation.

8.1.1 The analyst must make an initial, one-time, demonstration of the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method. This ability is established as described in Section 8.2.

8.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in chromatography, the analyst is permitted certain options (detailed in Sections 10.4, 11.1, and 12.1) to improve the separations or lower the cost of measurements. Each time such a modification is made to the method, the analyst is required to repeat the procedure in Section 8.2.

8.1.3 Before processing any samples, the analyst must analyze a reagent water blank to demonstrate that interferences from the analytical system and glassware are under control. Each time a set of samples is extracted or reagents are changed, a reagent water blank must be processed as a safeguard against laboratory contamination.

8.1.4 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike and analyze a minimum of 10% of all samples to monitor and evaluate laboratory data quality. This procedure is described in Section 8.3.

8.1,5 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through the analyses of quality control check standards that the operation of the measurement system is in control. This procedure is described in Section 8.4. The frequency of the check standard analyses is equivalent to 10% of all samples analyzed but may be reduced if spike recoveries from samples (Section 8.3) meet all specified quality control criteria.

8.1.6 The laboratory must maintain performance records to document the quality of data that is generated. This procedure is described in Section 8.5.

8.2 To establish the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision, the analyst must perform the following operations.

8.2.1 A quality control (QC) check sample concentrate is required containing each parameter of interest in acetone at a concentration of 20 µg/mL for each dinitrotoluene and 100 µg/mL for isophorone and nitrobenzene. The QC check sample concentrate must be obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory in Cincinnati, Ohio, if available. If not available from that source, the QC check sample concentrate must be obtained from another external source. If not available from either source above, the QC check sample concentrate must be prepared by the laboratory using stock standards prepared independently from those used for calibration.

8.2.2 Using a pipet, prepare QC check samples at the test concentrations shown in Table 2 by adding 1.00 mL of QC check sample concentrate to each of four 1-L aliquots of reagent water.

8.2.3 Analyze the well-mixed QC check samples according to the method beginning in Section 10.

8.2.4 Calculate the average recovery (X) in µg/L, and the standard deviation of the recovery (s) in µg/L, for each parameter using the four results.

8.2.5 For each parameter compare s and Xwith the corresponding acceptance criteria for precision and accuracy, respectively, found in Table 2. If s and Xfor all parameters of interest meet the acceptance criteria, the system performance is acceptable and analysis of actual samples can begin. If any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individual Xfalls outside the range for accuracy, the system performance is unacceptable for that parameter. Locate and correct the source of the problem and repeat the test for all parameters of interest beginning with Section 8.2.2.

8.3 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike at least 10% of the samples from each sample site being monitored to assess accuracy. For laboratories analyzing one to ten samples per month, at least one spiked sample per month is required.

8.3.1 The concentration of the spike in the sample should be determined as follows:

8.3.1.1 If, as in compliance monitoring, the concentration of a specific parameter in the sample is being checked against a regulatory concentration limit, the spike should be at that limit or 1 to 5 times higher than the background concentration determined in Section 8.3.2, whichever concentration would be larger.

8.3.1.2 If the concentration of a specific parameter in the sample is not being checked against a limit specific to that parameter, the spike should be at the test concentration in Section 8.2.2 or 1 to 5 times higher than the background concentration determined in Section 8.3.2, whichever concentration would be larger.

8.3.1.3 If it is impractical to determile background levels before spiking (e.g., maximum holding times will be exceeded), the spike concentration should be (1) the regulatory concentration limit, if any; or, if none (2) the larger of either 5 times higher than the expected background concentration or the test concentration in Section 8.2.2.

8.3.2 Analyze one sample aliquot to determine the background concentration (B) of each parameter. If necessary, prepare a new QC check sample concentrate (Section 8.2.1) appropriate for the background concentrations in the sample. Spike a second sample aliquot with 1.0 mL of the QC check sample concentrate and analyze it to determine the concentration after spiking (A) of each parameter. Calculate each percent recovery (P) as 100 (A-B)%/T, where T is the known true value of the spike.

8.3.3 Compare the percent recovery (P) for each parameter with the corresponding QC acceptance criteria found in Table 2. These acceptance criteria were calculated to include an allowance for error in measurement of both the background and spike concentrations, assuming a spike to background ratio of 5:1. This error will be accounted for to the extent that the analyst's spike to background ratio approaches 5:1.If spiking was performed at a concentration lower than the test concentration in Section 8.2.2, the analyst must use either the QC acceptance criteria in Table 2, or optional QC acceptance criteria calculated for the specific spike concentration. To calculate optional acceptance criteria for the recovery of a parameter: (1) Calculate accuracy (X&#x2032;) using the equation in Table 3, substituting the spike concentration (T) for C; (2) calculate overall precision (S&#x2032;) using the equation in Table 3, substituting X&#x2032; for X8; (3) calculate the range for recovery at the spike concentration as (100 X&#x2032;/T) +/-2.44 (100 S&#x2032;/T)%.

8.3.4 If any individual P falls outside the designated range for recovery, that parameter has failed the acceptance criteria. A check standard containing each parameter that failed the criteria must be analyzed as described in Section 8.4.

8.4. If any parameter fails the acceptance criteria for recovery in Section 8.3, a QC check standard containing each parameter that failed must be prepared and analyzed.

8.4.1 Prepare the QC check standard by adding 1.0 mL of QC check sample concentrate (Section 8.2.1 or 8.3.2) to 1 L of reagent water. The QC check standard needs only to contain the parameters that failed criteria in the test in Section 8.3.

8.4.2 Analyze the QC check standard to determine the concentration measured (A) of each parameter. Calculate each percent recovery (P) as 100 (A/T)%, where T is the true value of the standard concentration.

8.4.3 Compare the percent recovery (P) for each parameter with the corresponding QC acceptance criteria found in Table 2. Only parameters that failed the test in Section 8.3 need to be compared with these criteria. If the recovery of any such parameter falls outside the designated range, the laboratory performance for that parameter is judged to be out of control, and the problem must be immediately identified and corrected. The analytical result for that parameter in the unspiked sample is suspect and may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes.

8.5 As part of QC program for the laboratory, method accuracy for wastewater samples must be assessed and records must be maintained. After the analysis of five spiked wastewater samples as in Section 8.3, calculate the average percent recovery (P) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (s). Express the accuracy assessment as a percent recovery interval from P-2sto P+ 2s. If P= 90% and s= 10%, for example, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-110%. Update the accuracy assessment for each parameter on a regular basis (e.g. after each five to ten new accuracy measurements).

8.6 It is recommended that the laboratory adopt additional quality assurance practices for use with this method. The specific practices that are most productive depend upon the needs of the laboratory and the nature of the samples. Field duplicates may be analyzed to assess the precision of the environmental measurements. When doubt exists over the identification of a peak on the chromatogram, confirmatory techniques such as gas chromatography with a dissimilar column, specific element detector, or mass spectrometer must be used. Whenever possible, the laboratory should analyze standard reference materials and participate in relevant performance evaluation studies.

9.1 Grab samples must be collected in glass containers. Conventional sampling practicesshould be followed, except that the bottle must not be prerinsed with sample before collection. Composite samples should be collected in refrigerated glass containers in accordance with the requirements of the program. Automatic sampling equipment must be as free as possible of Tygon tubing and other potential sources of contamination.

9.2 All samples must be iced or refrigerated at 4 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until extraction.

9.3 All samples must be extracted within 7 days of collection and completely analyzed within 40 days of extraction.

10.1 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Pour the entire sample into a 2-L separatory funnel. Check the pH of the sample with wide-range pH paper and adjust to within the range of 5 to 9 with sodium hydroxide solution or sulfuric acid.

10.2 Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake 30 s to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the separatory funnel and extract the sample by shaking the funnel for 2 min. with periodic venting to release excess pressure. Allow the organic layer to separate from the water phase for a minimum of 10 min. If the emulsion interface between layers is more than one-third the volume of the solvent layer, the analyst must employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation. The optimum technique depends upon the sample, but may include stirring, filtration of the emulsion through glass wool, centrifugation, or other physical methods. Collect the methylene chloride extract in a 250-mL Erlenmeyer flask.

10.3 Add a second 60-mL volume of methylene chloride to the sample bottle and repeat the extraction procedure a second time, combining the extracts in the Erlenmeyer flask. Perform a third extraction in the same manner.

10.4 Assemble a Kuderna-Danish (K-D) concentrator by attaching a 10-mL concentrator tube to a 500-mL evaporative flask. Other concentration devices or techniques may be used in place of the K-D concentrator if the requirements of Section 8.2 are met.

10.5 Pour the combined extract through a solvent-rinsed drying column containing about 10 cm of anhydrous sodium sulfate, and collect the extract in the K-D concentrator. Rinse the Erlenmeyer flask and column with 20 to 30 mL of methylene chloride to complete the quantitative transfer.

10.6 Sections 10.7 and 10.8 describe a procedure for exchanging the methylene chloride solvent to hexane while concentrating the extract volume to 1.0 mL. When it is not necessary to achieve the MDL in Table 2, the solvent exchange may be made by the addition of 50 mL of hexane and concentration to 10 mL as described in Method 606, Sections 10.7 and 10.8.

10.7 Add one or two clean boiling chips to the evaporative flask and attach a three-ball Snyder column. Prewet the Snyder column by adding about 1 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60 to 65 &#xB0;C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in the hot water, and the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with hot vapor. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15 to 20 min. At the proper rate of distillation the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches 1 mL, remove the K-D apparatus and allow it to drain and cool for at least 10 min.

10.8 Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1 to 2 mL of methylene chloride. A 5-mL syringe is recommended for this operation. Add 1 to 2 mL of hexane and a clean boiling chip to the concentrator tube and attach a two-ball micro-Snyder column. Prewet the column by adding about 0.5 mL of hexane to the top. Place the micro-K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60 to 65 &#xB0;C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in the hot water. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5 to 10 min. At the proper rate of distillation the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches 0.5 mL, remove the K-D apparatus and allow it to drain and cool for at least 10 min.

10.9 Remove the micro-Snyder column and rinse its lower joint into the concentrator tube with a minimum amount of hexane. Adjust the extract volume to 1.0 mL. Stopper the concentrator tube and store refrigerated if further processing will not be performed immediately. If the extract will be stored longer than two days, it should be transferred to a Teflon-sealed screw-cap vial. If the sample extract requires no further cleanup, proceed with gas chromatographic analysis (Section 12). If the sample requires further cleanup, proceed to Section 11.

10.10 Determine the original sample volume by refilling the sample bottle to the mark and transferring the liquid to a 1000-mL graduated cylinder. Record the sample volume to the nearest 5 mL.

11.1 Cleanup procedures may not be necessary for a relatively clean sample matrix. If particular circumstances demand the use of a cleanup procedure, the analyst may use the procedure below or any other appropriate procedure. However, the analyst first must demonstrate that the requirements of Section 8.2 can be met using the method as revised to incorporate the cleanup procedure.

11.2 Florisil column cleanup:

11.2.1 Prepare a slurry of 10 g of activated Florisil in methylene chloride/hexane (1 + 9)(V/V) and place the Florisil into a chromatographic column. Tap the column to settle the Florisil and add 1 cm of anhydrous sodium sulfate to the top. Adjust the elution rate to about 2 mL/min.

11.2.2 Just prior to exposure of the sodium sulfate layer to the air, quantitatively transfer the sample extract onto the column using an additional 2 mL of hexane to complete the transfer. Just prior to exposure of the sodium sulfate layer to the air, add 30 mL of methylene chloride/hexane (1 + 9)(V/V) and continue the elution of the column. Discard the eluate.

11.2.3 Next, elute the column with 30 mL of acetone/methylene chloride (1 + 9)(V/V) into a 500-mL K-D flask equipped with a 10-mL concentrator tube. Concentrate the collected fraction as in Sections 10.6, 10.7, 10.8, and 10.9 including the solvent exchange to 1 mL of hexane. This fraction should contain the nitroaromatics and isophorone. Analyze by gas chromatography (Section 12).

12.1 Isophorone and nitrobenzene are analyzed by injection of a portion of the extract into an FIDGC. The dinitrotoluenes are analyzed by a separate injection into an ECDGC. Table 1 summarizes the recommended operating conditions for the gas chromatograph. Included in this table are retention times and MDL that can be achieved under these conditions. Examples of the separations achieved by Column 1 are shown in Figures 1 and 2. Other packed or capillary (open-tubular) columns, chromatographic conditions, or detectors may be used if the requirements of Section 8.2 are met.

12.2 Calibrate the system daily as described in Section 7.

12.3 If the internal standard calibration procedure is being used, the internal standard must be added to the same extract and mixed thoroughly immediately before injection into the gas chromatograph.

12.4 Inject 2 to 5 µL of the sample extract or standard into the gas chromatograph using the solvent-flush technique.Smaller (1.0 µL) volumes may be injected if automatic devices are employed. Record the volume injected to the nearest 0.05 µL, the total extract volume, and the resulting peak size in area or peak height units.

12.5 Identify the parameters in the sample by comparing the retention times of the peaks in the sample chromatogram with those of the peaks in standard chromatograms. The width of the retention time window used to make identifications should be based upon measurements of actual retention time variations of standards over the course of a day. Three times the standard deviation of a retention time for a compound can be used to calculate a suggested window size; however, the experience of the analyst should weigh heavily in the interpretation of chromatograms.

12.6 If the response for a peak exceeds the working range of the system, dilute the extract and reanalyze.

12.7 If the measurement of the peak response is prevented by the presence of interferences, further cleanup is required.

13.1 Determine the concentration of individual compounds in the sample.

13.1.1 If the external standard calibration procedure is used, calculate the amount of material injected from the peak response using the calibration curve or calibration factor determined in Section 7.2.2. The concentration in the sample can be calculated from Equation 2.

13.1.2 If the internal standard calibration procedure is used, calculate the concentration in the sample using the response factor (RF) determined in Section 7.3.2 and Equation 3.

13.2 Report results in µg/L without correction for recovery data. All QC data obtained should be reported with the sample results.

14.1 The method detection limit (MDL) is defined as the minimum concentration of a substance that can be measured and reported with 99% confidence that the value is above zero.The MDL concentrations listed in Table 1 were obtained using reagent water.Similar results were achieved using representative wastewaters. The MDL actually achieved in a given analysis will vary depending on instrument sensitivity and matrix effects.

14.2 This method has been tested for linearity of spike recovery from reagent water and has been demonstrated to be applicable over the concentration range from 7 x MDL to 1000 x MDL.

14.3 This method was tested by 18 laboratories using reagent water, drinking water, surface water, and three industrial wastewaters spiked at six concentrations over the range 1.0 to 515 µg/L.Single operator precision, overall precision, and method accuracy were found to be directly related to the concentration of the parameter and essentially independent of the sample matrix. Linear equations to describe these relationships are presented in Table 3.

1. 40 CFR part 136, appendix B.

2. "Determination of Nitroaromatic Compounds and Isophorone in Industrial and Municipal Wastewaters," EPA 600/ 4-82-024, National Technical Information Service, PB82-208398, Springfield, Virginia 22161, May 1982.

3. ASTM Annual Book of Standards, Part 31, D3694-78. "Standard Practices for Preparation of Sample Containers and for Preservation of Organic Constituents," American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia.

4. "Carcinogens-Working With Carcinogens," Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for Disease Control, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Publication No. 77-206, August 1977.

5. "OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry," (29 CFR part 1910), Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA 2206 (Revised, January 1976).

6. "Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories," American Chemical Society Publication, Committee on Chemical Safety, 3rd Edition, 1979.
