
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### https://www.epa.gov/eg/industrial-effluent-guidelines

(e) Untreated and treated wastewaters up to a total of nine matrix types (seefor a list of industrial categories with existing effluent guidelines).

(i) At least one of the above wastewater matrix types must have at least one of the following characteristics:

(A) Total suspended solids greater than 40 mg/L.

(B) Total dissolved solids greater than 100 mg/L.

(C) Oil and grease greater than 20 mg/L.

(D) NaCl greater than 120 mg/L.

(E) CaCO3 greater than 140 mg/L.

(ii) Results of MS/MSD tests must meet QC acceptance criteria in section 8.3.

(f) A proficiency testing (PT) sample from a recognized provider, in addition to tests of the nine matrices (section 8.1.2.1.1).

8.1.2.2 The laboratory is required to maintain records of modifications made to this method. These records include the following, at a minimum:

8.1.2.2.1 The names, titles, and business street addresses, telephone numbers, and email addresses of the analyst(s) that performed the analyses and modification, and of the quality control officer that witnessed and will verify the analyses and modifications.

8.1.2.2.2 A list of analytes, by name and CAS Registry Number.

8.1.2.2.3 A narrative stating reason(s) for the modifications.

8.1.2.2.4 Results from all quality control (QC) tests comparing the modified method to this method, including:

(a) Calibration (section 7).

(b) Calibration verification/LCS (section 8.4).

(c) Initial demonstration of capability (section 8.2).

(d) Analysis of blanks (section 8.5).

(e) Matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate analysis (section 8.3).

(f) Laboratory control sample analysis (section 8.4).

8.1.2.2.5 Data that will allow an independent reviewer to validate each determination by tracing the instrument output (peak height, area, or other signal) to the final result. These data are to include:

(a) Sample numbers and other identifiers.

(b) Analysis dates and times.

(c) Analysis sequence/run chronology.

(d) Sample volume (Section 10).

(e) Sample dilution (Section 13.2).

(f) Instrument and operating conditions.

(g) Column (dimensions, material, etc).

(h) Operating conditions (temperature program, flow rate, etc).

(i) Detector (type, operating conditions, etc).

(j) Chromatograms, mass spectra, and other recordings of raw data.

(k) Quantitation reports, data system outputs, and other data to link the raw data to the results reported.

(l) A written Standard Operating Procedure (SOP).

8.1.2.2.6 Each individual laboratory wishing to use a given modification must perform the start-up tests in section 8.1.2 (e.g., DOC, MDL), with the modification as an integral part of this method prior to applying the modification to specific discharges. Results of the DOC must meet the QC acceptance criteria in Table 7 for the analytes of interest (section 1.3), and the MDLs must be equal to or lower than the MDLs in Table3 for the analytes of interest

8.1.3 Before analyzing samples, the laboratory must analyze a blank to demonstrate that interferences from the analytical system, labware, and reagents are under control. Each time a batch of samples is analyzed or reagents are changed, a blank must be analyzed as a safeguard against laboratory contamination. Requirements for the blank are given in section 8.5.

8.1.4 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike and analyze samples to monitor and evaluate method and laboratory performance on the sample matrix. The procedure for spiking and analysis is given in section 8.3.

8.1.5 The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through analysis of a quality control check sample (laboratory control sample, LCS; on-going precision and recovery sample, OPR) that the measurement system is in control. This procedure is given in section 8.4.

8.1.6 The laboratory must maintain performance records to document the quality of data that is generated. This procedure is given in section 8.8.

8.1.7 The large number of analytes tested in performance tests in this method present a substantial probability that one or more will fail acceptance criteria when many analytes are tested simultaneously, and a re-test is allowed if this situation should occur. If, however, continued re-testing results in further repeated failures, the laboratory must document and report the failures (e.g., as qualifiers on results), unless the failures are not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with a QC failure for an analyte regulated in a discharge cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.

8.2 Initial demonstration of capability (DOC)-To establish the ability to generate acceptable recovery and precision, the laboratory must perform the DOC in sections 8.2.1 through 8.2.6 for the analytes of interest. The laboratory must also establish MDLs for the analytes of interest using the MDL procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The laboratory's MDLs must be equal to or lower than those listed in Table 1 for those analytes which list MDL values, or lower than one-third the regulatory compliance limit, whichever is greater. For MDLs not listed in Table 1, the laboratory must determine the MDLs using the MDL procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B under the same conditions used to determine the MDLs for the analytes listed in Table 1. All procedures used in the analysis must be included in the DOC.

8.2.1 For the DOC, a QC check sample concentrate (LCS concentrate) containing each analyte of interest (section 1.3) is prepared in methanol. The QC check sample concentrate must be prepared independently from those used for calibration, but may be from the same source as the second-source standard used for calibration verification/LCS (sections 7.4 and 8.4). The concentrate should produce concentrations of the analytes of interest in water at the mid-point of the calibration range, and may be at the same concentration as the LCS (section 8.4).

8.2.2 Using a pipet or micro-syringe, prepare four LCSs by adding an appropriate volume of the concentrate to each of four aliquots of reagent water. The volume of reagent water must be the same as the volume that will be used for the sample, blank (section 8.5), and MS/MSD (section 8.3). A volume of 5 mL and a concentration of 20 µg/L were used to develop the QC acceptance criteria in Table 7. An alternative volume and sample concentration may be used, provided that all QC tests are performed and all QC acceptance criteria in this method are met. Also add an aliquot of the surrogate spiking solution (section 6.7) and internal standard spiking solution (section 7.3.1.3) to the reagent-water aliquots.

8.2.3 Analyze the four LCSs according to the method beginning in section 10.

8.2.4 Calculate the average percent recovery () and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (s) for each analyte using the four results.

8.2.5 For each analyte, compare s andwith the corresponding acceptance criteria for precision and recovery in Table 7. For analytes in Tables 1 and 2 not listed in Table 7, DOC QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 11 and 12). Alternatively, acceptance criteria for analytes not listed in Table 7 may be based on laboratory control charts. If s andfor all analytes of interest meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individualfalls outside the range for recovery, system performance is unacceptable for that analyte.

8.2.6 When one or more of the analytes tested fail at least one of the acceptance criteria, repeat the test for only the analytes that failed. If results for these analytes pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of samples and blanks may proceed. If one or more of the analytes again fail, system performance is unacceptable for the analytes that failed the acceptance criteria. Correct the problem and repeat the test (section 8.2). See section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

8.3 Matrix spike and matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD)-The purpose of the MS/MSD requirement is to provide data that demonstrate the effectiveness of the method as applied to the samples in question by a given laboratory, and both the data user (discharger, permittee, regulated entity, regulatory/control authority, customer, other) and the laboratory share responsibility for provision of such data. The data user should identify the sample and the analytes of interest (section 1.3) to be spiked and provide sufficient sample volume to perform MS/MSD analyses. The laboratory must, on an ongoing basis, spike at least 5% of the samples in duplicate from each discharge being monitored to assess accuracy (recovery and precision). If direction cannot be obtained from the data user, the laboratory must spike at least one sample in duplicate per extraction batch of up to 20 samples with the analytes in Table 1. Spiked sample results should be reported only to the data user whose sample was spiked, or as requested or required by a regulatory/control authority, or in a permit.

8.3.1 If, as in compliance monitoring, the concentration of a specific analyte will be checked against a regulatory concentration limit, the concentration of the spike should be at that limit; otherwise, the concentration of the spike should be one to five times higher than the background concentration determined in section 8.3.2, at or near the mid-point of the calibration range, or at the concentration in the LCS (section 8.4) whichever concentration would be larger.

8.3.2 Analyze one sample aliquot to determine the background concentration (B) of the each analyte of interest. If necessary, prepare a new check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1) appropriate for the background concentration. Spike and analyze two additional sample aliquots, and determine the concentration after spiking (Aand A) of each analyte. Calculate the percent recoveries (Pand P) as 100 (A-B)/T and 100 (A-B)/T, where T is the known true value of the spike. Also calculate the relative percent difference (RPD) between the concentrations (Aand A) as 200 |A-A|/(A+ A). If necessary, adjust the concentrations used to calculate the RPD to account for differences in the volumes of the spiked aliquots.

8.3.3 Compare the percent recoveries (Pand P) and the RPD for each analyte in the MS/MSD aliquots with the corresponding QC acceptance criteria in Table 7. A laboratory may develop and apply QC acceptance criteria more restrictive than the criteria in Table 7, if desired.

8.3.3.1 If any individual P falls outside the designated range for recovery in either aliquot, or the RPD limit is exceeded, the result for the analyte in the unspiked sample is suspect. See Section 8.1.7 for disposition of failures.

8.3.3.2 The acceptance criteria in Table 7 were calculated to include an allowance for error in measurement of both the background and spike concentrations, assuming a spike to background ratio of 5:1. This error will be accounted for to the extent that the spike to background ratio approaches 5:1 (Reference 13) and is applied to spike concentrations of 20 µg/L and higher. If spiking is performed at a concentration lower than 20 µg/L, the laboratory must use the QC acceptance criteria in Table 7, the optional QC acceptance criteria calculated for the specific spike concentration in Table 8, or optional in-house criteria (Section 8.3.4). To use the acceptance criteria in Table 8: (1) Calculate recovery (X') using the equation in Table 8, substituting the spike concentration (T) for C; (2) Calculate overall precision (S') using the equation in Table 8, substituting X' for; (3) Calculate the range for recovery at the spike concentration as (100 X'/T) +/- 2.44(100 S'/T)% (Reference 4). For analytes of interest in Tables 1 and 2 not listed in Table 7, QC acceptance criteria must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 11 and 12). Alternatively, acceptance criteria may be based on laboratory control charts. In-house LCS QC acceptance criteria must be updated at least every two years.

8.3.4 After analysis of a minimum of 20 MS/MSD samples for each target analyte and surrogate, and if the laboratory chooses to develop and apply in-house QC limits, the laboratory should calculate and apply in-house QC limits for recovery and RPD of future MS/MSD samples (section 8.3). The QC limits for recovery are calculated as the mean observed recovery +/- 3 standard deviations, and the upper QC limit for RPD is calculated as the mean RPD plus 3 standard deviations of the RPDs. The in-house QC limits must be updated at least every two years and re-established after any major change in the analytical instrumentation or process. If in-house QC limits are developed, at least 80% of the analytes tested in the MS/MSD must have in-house QC acceptance criteria that are tighter than those in Table 7 and the remaining analytes (those other than the analytes included in the 80%) must meet the acceptance criteria in Table 7. If an in-house QC limit for the RPD is greater than the limit in Table 7, then the limit in Table 7 must be used. Similarly, if an in-house lower limit for recovery is below the lower limit in Table 7, then the lower limit in Table 7 must be used, and if an in-house upper limit for recovery is above the upper limit in Table 7, then the upper limit in Table 7 must be used.

8.4 Calibration verification/laboratory control sample (LCS)-The working calibration curve or RF must be verified immediately after calibration and at the beginning of each 12-hour shift by the measurement of an LCS. The LCS must be from a source different from the source used for calibration (section 7.3.2.1), but may be the same as the sample prepared for the DOC (section 8.2.1).

8.4.1 Prepare the LCS by adding QC check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1) to reagent water. Include all analytes of interest (Section 1.3) in the LCS. The volume of reagent water must be the same as the volume used for the sample, blank (Section 8.5), and MS/MSD (section 8.3). Also add an aliquot of the surrogate solution (Section 6.7) and internal standard solution (section 7.3.1.3). The concentration of the analytes in reagent water should be the same as the concentration in the DOC (section 8.2.2).

8.4.2 Analyze the LCS prior to analysis of field samples in the batch of samples analyzed during the 12-hour shift (see theat section 8.4). Determine the concentration (A) of each analyte. Calculate the percent recovery (Q) as 100 (A/T) %, where T is the true value of the concentration in the LCS.

8.4.3 Compare the percent recovery (Q) for each analyte with its corresponding QC acceptance criterion in Table 7. For analytes of interest in Tables 1 and 2 not listed in Table 7, use the QC acceptance criteria developed for the LCS (section 8.4.5). If the recoveries for all analytes of interest fall within their respective QC acceptance criteria, analysis of blanks and field samples may proceed. If any individual Q falls outside the range, proceed according to section 8.4.4.

8.4.4 Repeat the test only for those analytes that failed to meet the acceptance criteria (Q). If these analytes now pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. Repeated failure, however, will confirm a general problem with the measurement system. If this occurs, repeat the test (section 8.4.2). using a fresh LCS (section 8.2.2) or an LCS prepared with a fresh QC check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1), or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to repair, repeat the calibration verification/LCS test (section 8.4). If the acceptance criteria for Q cannot be met, re-calibrate the instrument (section 7). See section 8.1.7 for disposition of repeated failures.

8.4.5 After analysis of 20 LCS samples, and if the laboratory chooses to develop and apply in-house QC limits, the laboratory should calculate and apply in-house QC limits for recovery to future LCS samples (section 8.4). Limits for recovery in the LCS calculated as the mean recovery +/-3 standard deviations. A minimum of 80% of the analytes tested for in the LCS must have QC acceptance criteria tighter than those in Table 7, and the remaining analytes (those other than the analytes included in the 80%) must meet the acceptance criteria in Table 7. If an in-house lower limit for recovery is lower than the lower limit in Table 7, the lower limit in Table 7 must be used, and if an in-house upper limit for recovery is higher than the upper limit in Table 7, the upper limit in Table 7 must be used. Many of the analytes and surrogates do not have acceptance criteria. The laboratory should use 60-140% as interim acceptance criteria for recoveries of spiked analytes that do not have recovery limits specified in Table 7, and least 80% of the analytes should meet the 60-140% interim criteria until in-house LCS limits are developed. Alternatively, acceptance criteria for analytes that do not have recovery limits in Table 7 may be based on laboratory control charts. In-house QC acceptance criteria must be updated at least every two years.

8.5 Blank-A blank must be analyzed prior to each 12-hour shift to demonstrate freedom from contamination. A blank must also be analyzed after a sample containing a high concentration of an analyte or potentially interfering compound to demonstrate freedom from carry-over.

8.5.1 Spike the internal standards and surrogates into the blank. Analyze the blank immediately after analysis of the LCS (Section 8.4) and prior to analysis of the MS/MSD and samples to demonstrate freedom from contamination.
