
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### whichever is greater;

8.5.2 If any analyte of interest is found in the blank: At a concentration greater than the MDL for the analyte, at a concentration greater than one-third the regulatory compliance limit, or at a concentration greater than one-tenth the concentration in a sample analyzed during the 12-hour shift (section 8.4),analysis of samples must be halted and samples affected by the blank must be re-analyzed. If, however, continued re-testing results in repeated blank contamination, the laboratory must document and report the failures (e.g., as qualifiers on results), unless the failures are not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with blank contamination for an analyte regulated in a discharge cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.

8.6 Surrogate recoveries-The laboratory must evaluate surrogate recovery data in each sample against its in-house surrogate recovery limits for surrogates that do not have acceptance criteria in Table 7. The laboratory may use 60-140% as interim acceptance criteria for recoveries for surrogates not listed in Table 5. At least 80% of the surrogates must meet the 60-140% interim criteria until in-house limits are developed. Alternatively, surrogate recovery limits may be developed from laboratory control charts.

8.6.1 Spike the surrogates into all samples, blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs. Compare surrogate recoveries against the QC acceptance criteria in Table 7. For surrogates in Table 5 without QC acceptance criteria in Table 7, and for other surrogates that may be used by the laboratory, limits must be developed by the laboratory. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 11 and 12). Alternatively, surrogate recovery limits may be developed from laboratory control charts. In-house QC acceptance criteria must be updated at least every two years.

8.6.2 If any recovery fails its criteria, attempt to find and correct the cause of the failure. See section 8.1.7 for disposition of failures.

8.7 Internal standard responses.

8.7.1 Calibration verification/LCS-The responses (GC peak heights or areas) of the internal standards in the calibration verification/LCS must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of their respective responses in the mid-point calibration standard. If they are not, repeat the LCS test using a fresh QC check sample (section 8.4.1) or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to repair, repeat the calibration verification/LCS test (section 8.4). If the responses are still not within 50% to 200%, re-calibrate the instrument (section 7) and repeat the calibration verification/LCS test.

8.7.2 Samples, blanks, and MS/MSDs-The responses (GC peak heights or areas) of each internal standard in each sample, blank, and MS/MSD must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of its respective response in the mid-point calibration standard. If, as a group, all internal standards are not within this range, perform and document system repair, repeat the calibration verification/LCS test (section 8.4), and re-analyze the affected samples. If a single internal standard is not within the 50% to 200% range, use an alternative internal standard for quantitation of the analyte referenced to the affected internal standard. It may be necessary to use the data system to calculate a new response factor from calibration data for the alternative internal standard/analyte pair. If an internal standard fails the 50-200% criteria and no analytes are detected in the sample, ignore the failure or report it if required by the regulatory/control authority.

8.8 As part of the QC program for the laboratory, control charts or statements of accuracy for wastewater samples must be assessed and records maintained periodically (see 40 CFR 136.7(c)(1)(viii)). After analysis of five or more spiked wastewater samples as in section 8.3, calculate the average percent recovery (P) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (sp). Express the accuracy assessment as a percent interval from P-2to P+ 2. For example, if P= 90% and sp = 10%, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-110%. Update the accuracy assessment for each analyte on a regular basis (e.g., after each 5-10 new accuracy measurements). If desired, statements of accuracy for laboratory performance, independent of performance on samples, may be developed using LCSs.

8.9 It is recommended that the laboratory adopt additional quality assurance practices for use with this method. The specific practices that are most productive depend upon the needs of the laboratory and the nature of the samples. Field duplicates may be analyzed to assess the precision of environmental measurements. Whenever possible, the laboratory should analyze standard reference materials and participate in relevant performance evaluation studies.

9.1 Collect the sample as a grab sample in a glass container having a total volume of at least 25 mL. Fill the sample bottle just to overflowing in such a manner that no air bubbles pass through the sample as the bottle is being filled. Seal the bottle so that no air bubbles are entrapped in it. If needed, collect additional sample(s) for the MS/MSD (section 8.3).

9.2 Ice or refrigerate samples at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until analysis, but do not freeze. If residual chlorine is present, add sodium thiosulfate preservative (10 mg/40 mL is sufficient for up to 5 ppm Cl) to the empty sample bottle just prior to shipping to the sampling site. Any method suitable for field use may be employed to test for residual chlorine (Reference 14). Field test kits are also available for this purpose. If sodium thiosulfate interferes in the determination of the analytes, an alternative preservative (e.g., ascorbic acid or sodium sulfite) may be used. If preservative has been added, shake the sample vigorously for one minute. Maintain the hermetic seal on the sample bottle until time of analysis.

9.3 If acrolein is to be determined, analyze the sample within 3 days. To extend the holding time to 14 days, acidify a separate sample to pH 4-5 with HCl using the procedure in section 9.7.

9.4 Experimental evidence indicates that some aromatic compounds, notably benzene, toluene, and ethyl benzene are susceptible to rapid biological degradation under certain environmental conditions (Reference 3). Refrigeration alone may not be adequate to preserve these compounds in wastewaters for more than seven days. To extend the holding time for aromatic compounds to 14 days, acidify the sample to approximately pH 2 using the procedure in section 9.7.

9.5 If halocarbons are to be determined, either use the acidified aromatics sample in section 9.4 or acidify a separate sample to a pH of about 2 using the procedure in section 9.7.

9.6 The ethers listed in Table 2 are prone to hydrolysis at pH 2 when a heated purge is used. Aqueous samples should not be acid preserved if these ethers are of interest, or if the alcohols they would form upon hydrolysis are of interest and the ethers are anticipated to present.

9.7 Sample acidification-Collect about 500 mL of sample in a clean container and adjust the pH of the sample to 4-5 for acrolein (section 9.3), or to about 2 for the aromatic compounds (section 9.4) by adding 1+1 HCl while swirling or stirring. Check the pH with narrow range pH paper. Fill a sample container as described in section 9.1. Alternatively, fill a precleaned vial (section 5.1.1) that contains approximately 0.25 mL of 1+1 HCl with sample as in section 9.1. If preserved using this alternative procedure, the pH of the sample can be verified to be <2 after some of the sample is removed for analysis. Acidification will destroy 2-chloroethylvinyl ether; therefore, determine 2-chloroethylvinyl ether from the unacidified sample.

9.8 All samples must be analyzed within 14 days of collection (Reference 3), unless specified otherwise in sections 9.3-9.7.

10.1 The footnote to Table 3 gives the suggested GC column and operating conditions MDLs and MLs for many of the analytes are given in Table 1. Retention times for many of the analytes are given in Table 3. Sections 10.2 through 10.7 suggest procedures that may be used with a manual purge-and-trap system. Auto-samplers and other columns or chromatographic conditions may be used if requirements in this method are met. Prior to performing analyses, and between analyses, it may be necessary to bake the purge-and-trap and GC systems (section 3.3).

10.2 Attach the trap inlet to the purging device, and set the purge-and-trap system to purge. Open the syringe valve located on the purging device sample introduction needle.

10.3 Allow the sample to come to ambient temperature prior to pouring an aliquot into the syringe. Remove the plunger from a syringe and attach a closed syringe valve. Open the sample bottle (or standard) and carefully pour the sample into the syringe barrel to just short of overflowing. Replace the syringe plunger and compress the sample. Open the syringe valve and vent any residual air while adjusting the sample volume. Since this process of taking an aliquot destroys the validity of the sample for future analysis, the analyst should fill a second syringe at this time to protect against possible loss of data. Add the surrogate spiking solution (section 6.7) and internal standard spiking solution (section 7.3.1.3) through the valve bore, then close the valve. The surrogate and internal standards may be mixed and added as a single spiking solution. Autosamplers designed for purge-and-trap analysis of volatiles also may be used.

10.4 Attach the syringe valve assembly to the syringe valve on the purging device. Open the syringe valve and inject the sample into the purging chamber.

10.5 Close both valves and purge the sample at a temperature, flow rate, and duration sufficient to purge the less-volatile analytes onto the trap, yet short enough to prevent blowing the more-volatile analytes through the trap. The temperature, flow rate, and time should be determined by test. The same purge temperature, flow rate, and purge time must be used for all calibration, QC, and field samples.

10.6 After the purge, set the purge-and-trap system to the desorb mode, and begin the temperature program of the gas chromatograph. Introduce the trapped materials to the GC column by rapidly heating the trap to the desorb temperature while backflushing the trap with carrier gas at the flow rate and for the time necessary to desorb the analytes of interest. The optimum temperature, flow rate, and time should be determined by test. The same temperature, desorb time, and flow rate must be used for all calibration, QC, and field samples. If heating of the trap does not result in sharp peaks for the early eluting analytes, the GC column may be used as a secondary trap by cooling to an ambient or subambient temperature. To avoid carry-over and interferences, maintain the trap at the desorb temperature and flow rate until the analytes, interfering compounds, and excess water are desorbed. The optimum conditions should be determined by test.

10.7 Start MS data acquisition at the start of the desorb cycle and stop data collection when the analytes of interest, potentially interfering compounds, and water have eluted (see the footnote to Table 3 for conditions).

10.8 Cool the trap to the purge temperature and return the trap to the purge mode. When the trap is cool, the next sample can be analyzed.

11.1 At the beginning of each 12-hour shift during which standards or samples will be analyzed, perform the tests in sections 11.2-11.3 to verify system performance. Use the instrument operating conditions in the footnotes to Table 3 for these performance tests. Alternative conditions may be used so as long as all QC requirements are met.

11.2 BFB-Inject 50 ng of BFB solution directly on the column. Alternatively, add BFB to reagent water or an aqueous standard such that 50 ng or less of BFB will be introduced into the GC. Analyze according to section 10. Confirm that all criteria in section 7.3.2.2 and Table 4 are met. If all criteria are not met, perform system repair, retune the mass spectrometer, and repeat the test until all criteria are met.

11.3 Verify calibration with the LCS (section 8.4) after the criteria for BFB are met (Reference 15) and prior to analysis of a blank or sample. After verification, analyze a blank (section 8.5) to demonstrate freedom from contamination and carry-over at the MDL. Tests for BFB, the LCS, and the blank are outside of the 12-hour shift, and the 12-hour shift includes samples and matrix spikes and matrix spike duplicates (section 8.4). The total time for analysis of BFB, the LCS, the blank, and the 12-hour shift must not exceed 14 hours.

12.1 Identification is accomplished by comparison of results from analysis of a sample or blank with data stored in the GC/MS data system (section 7.3.2.3). Identification of an analyte is confirmed per sections 12.1.1 through 12.1.4.

12.1.1 The signals for the quantitation and secondary m/z's stored in the data system (section 7.3.2.3) for each analyte of interest must be present and must maximize within the same two consecutive scans.

12.1.2 The retention time for the analyte should be within +/- 10 seconds of the analyte in the LCS run at the beginning of the shift (section 8.4).

12.1.3 Either the background corrected EICP areas, or the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum, must agree within 50% to 200% (to 2 times) for the quantitation and secondary m/z's in the reference mass spectrum stored in the data system (section 7.3.2.3), or from a reference library. For example, if a peak has an intensity of 20% relative to the base peak, the analyte is identified if the intensity of the peak in the sample is in the range of 10% to 40% of the base peak.

12.1.4 If the acquired mass spectrum is contaminated, or if identification is ambiguous, an experienced spectrometrist (section 1.6) must determine the presence or absence of the compound.

12.2 Structural isomers that produce very similar mass spectra should be identified as individual isomers if they have sufficiently different gas chromatographic retention times. Sufficient gas chromatographic resolution is achieved if the height of the valley between two isomer peaks is less than 50% of the average of the two peak heights. Otherwise, structural isomers are identified as isomeric pairs. The resolution should be verified on the mid-point concentration of the initial calibration as well as the laboratory designated continuing calibration verification level if closely eluting isomers are to be reported.

13.1 When an analyte has been identified, quantitation of that analyte is based on the integrated abundance from the EICP of the primary characteristic m/z in Table 5 or 6. Calculate the concentration using the response factor (RF) determined in section 7.3.3 and Equation 2. If a calibration curve was used, calculate the concentration using the regression equation for the curve. If the concentration of an analyte exceeds the calibration range, dilute the sample by the minimum amount to bring the concentration into the calibration range, and re-analyze. Determine a dilution factor (DF) from the amount of the dilution. For example, if the extract is diluted by a factor of 2, DF = 2.

13.2 Reporting of results

As noted in section 1.4.1, EPA has promulgated this method at 40 CFR part 136 for use in wastewater compliance monitoring under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The data reporting practices described here are focused on such monitoring needs and may not be relevant to other uses of this method.

13.2.1 Report results for wastewater samples in µg/L without correction for recovery. (Other units may be used if required by a permit.) Report all QC data with the sample results.

13.2.2 Reporting level. Unless otherwise specified in by a regulatory authority or in a discharge permit, results for analytes that meet the identification criteria are reported down to the concentration of the ML established by the laboratory through calibration of the instrument (see section 7.3.2 and the glossary for the derivation of the ML). EPA considers the terms "reporting limit," "limit of quantitation," "quantitation limit," and "minimum level" to be synonymous.

13.2.2.1 Report a result for each analyte in each field sample or QC standard at or above the ML to 3 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in each field sample or QC standard below the ML as "<ML," where ML is the concentration of the analyte at the ML, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit. Report a result for each analyte in a blank at or above the MDL to 2 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in a blank below the MDL as "<MDL," where MDL is the concentration of the analyte at the MDL, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit.

13.2.2.2 In addition to reporting results for samples and blanks separately, the concentration of each analyte in a blank associated with the sample may be subtracted from the result for that sample, but only if requested or required by a regulatory authority or in a permit. In this case, both the sample result and the blank result must be reported together.
