
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.,

13.2.3 Results from tests performed with an analytical system that is not in control (that does not meet acceptance criteria for any of the QC test in this method) must be documented and reported (e.g., as a qualifier on results), unless the failure is not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with a QC failure cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results. If the holding time would be exceeded for a re-analysis of the sample, the regulatory/control authority should be consulted for disposition.

14.1 This method was tested by 15 laboratories using reagent water, drinking water, surface water, and industrial wastewaters spiked at six concentrations over the range 5-600 µg/L (References 4 and 16). Single-operator precision, overall precision, and method accuracy were found to be directly related to the concentration of the analyte and essentially independent of the sample matrix. Linear equations to describe these relationships are presented in Table 8.

14.2 As noted in section 1.1, this method was validated through an interlaboratory study conducted in the early 1980s. However, the fundamental chemistry principles used in this method remain sound and continue to apply.

15.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Many opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operations. EPA has established a preferred hierarchy of environmental management techniques that places pollution prevention as the management option of first choice. Whenever feasible, the laboratory should use pollution prevention techniques to address waste generation. When wastes cannot be reduced at the source, the Agency recommends recycling as the next best option.

15.2 The analytes in this method are used in extremely small amounts and pose little threat to the environment when managed properly. Standards should be prepared in volumes consistent with laboratory use to minimize the disposal of excess volumes of expired standards.

15.3 For information about pollution prevention that may be applied to laboratories and research institutions, consult "Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction," available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Governmental Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

16.1 The laboratory is responsible for complying with all Federal, State, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. An overview of requirements can be found in Environmental Management Guide for Small Laboratories (EPA 233-B-98-001).

16.2 Samples at pH <2, or pH >12, are hazardous and must be handled and disposed of as hazardous waste, or neutralized and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations. It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions. The laboratory using this method has the responsibility to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. For further information on waste management, see "The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel," also available from the American Chemical Society at the address in Section 15.3.

16.3 Many analytes in this method decompose above 500 &#xB0;C. Low-level waste such as absorbent paper, tissues, and plastic gloves may be burned in an appropriate incinerator. Gross quantities of neat or highly concentrated solutions of toxic or hazardous chemicals should be packaged securely and disposed of through commercial or governmental channels that are capable of handling these types of wastes.

16.4 For further information on waste management, consult "Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction," available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

1. Bellar, T.A. and Lichtenberg, J.J. "Determining Volatile Organics at Microgram-per-Litre Levels by Gas Chromatography," Journal American Water Works Association, 66: 739 (1974).

2. "Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial Effluents for Priority Pollutants," U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268, March 1977, Revised April 1977.

3. Bellar, T.A. and Lichtenberg, J.J. "Semi-Automated Headspace Analysis of Drinking Waters and Industrial Waters for Purgeable Volatile Organic Compounds," Measurement of Organic Pollutants in Water and Wastewater, C.E. Van Hall, editor, American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia, PA. Special Technical Publication 686, 1978.

4. "EPA Method Study 29 EPA Method 624-Purgeables," EPA 600/4-84-054, National Technical Information Service, PB84-209915, Springfield, Virginia 22161, June 1984.

5. 40 CFR part 136, appendix B.

6. "Method Detection Limit for Methods 624 and 625," Olynyk, P., Budde, W.L., and Eichelberger, J.W. Unpublished report, May 14, 1980.

7. "Carcinogens-Working With Carcinogens," Department of Health, Education, and Welfare, Public Health Service, Center for Disease Control, National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health, Publication No. 77-206, August 1977.

8. "OSHA Safety and Health Standards, General Industry," (29 CFR part 1910), Occupational Safety and Health Administration, OSHA 2206 (Revised, January 1976).

9. "Safety in Academic Chemistry Laboratories," American Chemical Society Publication, Committee on Chemical Safety, 7th Edition, 2003.

10. 40 CFR 136.6(b)(5)(x).

11. 40 CFR 136.6(b)(2)(i).

12. Protocol for EPA Approval of New Methods for Organic and Inorganic Analytes in Wastewater and Drinking Water (EPA-821-B-98-003) March 1999.

13. Provost, L.P. and Elder, R.S. "Interpretation of Percent Recovery Data," American Laboratory, 15, 58-63 (1983).

14. 40 CFR 136.3(a), Table IB, Chlorine-Total residual.

15. Budde, W.L. and Eichelberger, J.W. "Performance Tests for the Evaluation of Computerized Gas Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry Equipment and Laboratories," EPA-600/4-80-025, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268, April 1980.

16. "Method Performance Data for Method 624," Memorandum from R. Slater and T. Pressley, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268, January 17, 1984.

These definitions and purposes are specific to this method, but have been conformed to common usage to the extent possible.

19.1 Units of weight and measure and their abbreviations.

19.1.1 Symbols.

19.1.2 Abbreviations (in alphabetical order).

19.2 Definitions and acronyms (in alphabetical order).

Analyte-A compound tested for by this method. The analytes are listed in Tables 1 and 2.

Analyte of interest-An analyte of interest is an analyte required to be determined by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit, or by a client.

Analytical batch-The set of samples analyzed on a given instrument during a 12-hour period that begins with analysis of a calibration verification/LCS. See section 8.4.

Blank-An aliquot of reagent water that is treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, internal standards, and surrogates that are used with samples. The blank is used to determine if analytes or interferences are present in the laboratory environment, the reagents, or the apparatus. See section 8.5.

Calibration-The process of determining the relationship between the output or response of a measuring instrument and the value of an input standard. Historically, EPA has referred to a multi-point calibration as the "initial calibration," to differentiate it from a single-point calibration verification.

Calibration standard-A solution prepared from stock solutions and/or a secondary standards and containing the analytes of interest, surrogates, and internal standards. The calibration standard is used to calibrate the response of the GC/MS instrument against analyte concentration.

Calibration verification standard-The laboratory control sample (LCS) used to verify calibration. See Section 8.4.

Descriptor-In SIM, the beginning and ending retention times for the RT window, the m/z's sampled in the RT window, and the dwell time at each m/z.

Extracted ion current profile (EICP)-The line described by the signal at a given m/z.

Field duplicates-Two samples collected at the same time and place under identical conditions, and treated identically throughout field and laboratory procedures. Results of analyses of field duplicates provide an estimate of the precision associated with sample collection, preservation, and storage, as well as with laboratory procedures.

Field blank-An aliquot of reagent water or other reference matrix that is placed in a sample container in the field, and treated as a sample in all respects, including exposure to sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the field blank is to determine if the field or sample transporting procedures and environments have contaminated the sample.

GC-Gas chromatograph or gas chromatography.

Internal standard-A compound added to a sample in a known amount and used as a reference for quantitation of the analytes of interest and surrogates. Internal standards are listed in Table 5. Also see Internal standard quantitation.

Internal standard quantitation-A means of determining the concentration of an analyte of interest (Tables 1 and 2) by reference to a compound added to a sample and not expected to be found in the sample.

DOC-Initial demonstration of capability (DOC; section 8.2); four aliquots of reagent water spiked with the analytes of interest and analyzed to establish the ability of the laboratory to generate acceptable precision and recovery. A DOC is performed prior to the first time this method is used and any time the method or instrumentation is modified.

Laboratory control sample (LCS; laboratory fortified blank (LFB); on-going precision and recovery sample; OPR)-An aliquot of reagent water spiked with known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates. The LCS is analyzed exactly like a sample. Its purpose is to assure that the results produced by the laboratory remain within the limits specified in this method for precision and recovery. In this method, the LCS is synonymous with a calibration verification sample (See sections 7.4 and 8.4).

Laboratory fortified sample matrix-See Matrix spike.

Laboratory reagent blank-See Blank.

Matrix spike (MS) and matrix spike duplicate (MSD) (laboratory fortified sample matrix and duplicate)-Two aliquots of an environmental sample to which known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates are added in the laboratory. The MS/MSD are prepared and analyzed exactly like a field sample. Their purpose is to quantify any additional bias and imprecision caused by the sample matrix. The background concentrations of the analytes in the sample matrix must be determined in a separate aliquot and the measured values in the MS/MSD corrected for background concentrations.

May-This action, activity, or procedural step is neither required nor prohibited.

May not-This action, activity, or procedural step is prohibited.

Method blank (laboratory reagent blank)-See Blank.

Method detection limit (MDL)-A detection limit determined by the procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The MDLs determined by EPA in the original version of the method are listed in Table 1. As noted in Sec. 1.4, use the MDLs in Table 1 in conjunction with current MDL data from the laboratory actually analyzing samples to assess the sensitivity of this procedure relative to project objectives and regulatory requirements (where applicable).

Minimum level (ML)-The term "minimum level" refers to either the sample concentration equivalent to the lowest calibration point in a method or a multiple of the method detection limit (MDL), whichever is higher. Minimum levels may be obtained in several ways: They may be published in a method; they may be based on the lowest acceptable calibration point used by a laboratory; or they may be calculated by multiplying the MDL in a method, or the MDL determined by a laboratory, by a factor of 3. For the purposes of NPDES compliance monitoring, EPA considers the following terms to be synonymous: "quantitation limit," "reporting limit," and "minimum level."

MS-Mass spectrometer or mass spectrometry.

Must-This action, activity, or procedural step is required.

m/z-The ratio of the mass of an ion (m) detected in the mass spectrometer to the charge (z) of that ion.

Quality control sample (QCS)-A sample containing analytes of interest at known concentrations. The QCS is obtained from a source external to the laboratory or is prepared from standards obtained from a different source than the calibration standards.

The purpose is to check laboratory performance using test materials that have been prepared independent of the normal preparation process.

Reagent water-Water demonstrated to be free from the analytes of interest and potentially interfering substances at the MDLs for the analytes in this method.

Regulatory compliance limit (or regulatory concentration limit)-A limit on the concentration or amount of a pollutant or contaminant specified in a nationwide standard, in a permit, or otherwise established by a regulatory/control authority.

Relative retention time (RRT)-The ratio of the retention time of an analyte to the retention time of its associated internal standard. RRT compensates for small changes in the GC temperature program that can affect the absolute retention times of the analyte and internal standard. RRT is a unitless quantity.

Relative standard deviation (RSD)-The standard deviation times 100 divided by the mean. Also termed "coefficient of variation."

RF-Response factor. See section 7.3.3.

RSD-See relative standard deviation.

Safety Data Sheet (SDS)-Written information on a chemical's toxicity, health hazards, physical properties, fire, and reactivity, including storage, spill, and handling precautions that meet the requirements of OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and appendix D to § 1910.1200. United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), third revised edition, United Nations, 2009.

Selected Ion Monitoring (SIM)-An MS technique in which a few m/z's are monitored. When used with gas chromatography, the m/z's monitored are usually changed periodically throughout the chromatographic run to correlate with the characteristic m/z's for the analytes, surrogates, and internal standards as they elute from the chromatographic column. The technique is often used to increase sensitivity and minimize interferences.

Signal-to-noise ratio (S/N)-The height of the signal as measured from the mean (average) of the noise to the peak maximum divided by the width of the noise.

SIM-See Selection Ion Monitoring.

Should-This action, activity, or procedural step is suggested but not required.

Stock solution-A solution containing an analyte that is prepared using a reference material traceable to EPA, the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), or a source that will attest to the purity and authenticity of the reference material.

Surrogate-A compound unlikely to be found in a sample, and which is spiked into sample in a known amount before purge-and-trap. The surrogate is quantitated with the same procedures used to quantitate the analytes of interest. The purpose of the surrogate is to monitor method performance with each sample.

VOA-Volatile organic analysis: e.g., the analysis performed by this method.

1.1 This method is for determination of semivolatile organic pollutants in industrial discharges and other environmental samples by gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry (GC/MS), as provided under 40 CFR 136.1. This revision is based on a previous protocol (Reference 1), on the basic revision promulgated October 26, 1984, and on an interlaboratory method validation study (Reference 2). Although this method was validated through an interlaboratory study conducted in the early 1980s, the fundamental chemistry principles used in this method remain sound and continue to apply.
