
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### American Laboratory, 15,

11. Provost, L. P., and Elder, R. S., "Interpretation of Percent Recovery Data,"58-63 (1983). (The value 2.44 used in the equation in Section 8.3.3 is two times the value 1.22 derived in this report.)

12. ASTM Annual Book of Standards, Part 31, D3370-76, "Standard Practices for Sampling Water," American Society for Testing and Materials, Philadelphia.

13. "Methods, 330.4 (Titrimetric, DPD-FAS) and 330.5 (Spectrophotometric DPD) for Chlorine, Total Residual," Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes, EPA-600/4-79-020, U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Environmental Monitoring and Support Laboratory, Cincinnati, Ohio 45268, March 1979.

14. Wong, A.S. et al. "The Determination of 2,3,7,8-TCDD in Industrial and Municipal Wastewaters, Method 613, Part 1-Development and Detection Limits," G. Choudhay, L. Keith, and C. Ruppe, ed., Butterworth Inc., (1983).

15. "EPA Method Study 26, Method 613: 2,3,7,8-Tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin," EPA 600/4-84-037, National Technical Information Service, PB84-188879, Springfield, Virginia 22161, May 1984.

1.1 This method is for determination of purgeable organic pollutants in industrial discharges and other environmental samples by gas chromatography combined with mass spectrometry (GC/MS), as provided under 40 CFR 136.1. This revision is based on previous protocols (References 1-3), on the revision promulgated October 26, 1984, and on an interlaboratory method validation study (Reference 4). Although this method was validated through an interlaboratory study conducted in the early 1980s, the fundamental chemistry principles used in this method remain sound and continue to apply.

1.2 The analytes that may be qualitatively and quantitatively determined using this method and their CAS Registry numbers are listed in Table 1. The method may be extended to determine the analytes listed in Table 2; however, poor purging efficiency or gas chromatography of some of these analytes may make quantitative determination difficult. For example, an elevated temperature may be required to purge some analytes from water. If an elevated temperature is used, calibration and all quality control (QC) tests must be performed at the elevated temperature. EPA encourages the use of this method to determine additional compounds amenable to purge-and-trap GC/MS.

1.3 The large number of analytes in Tables 1 and 2 of this method makes testing difficult if all analytes are determined simultaneously. Therefore, it is necessary to determine and perform QC tests for "analytes of interest" only. Analytes of interest are those required to be determined by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit, or by a client. If a list of analytes is not specified, the analytes in Table 1 must be determined, at a minimum, and QC testing must be performed for these analytes. The analytes in Table 1 and some of the analytes in Table 2 have been identified as Toxic Pollutants (40 CFR 401.15), expanded to a list of Priority Pollutants (40 CFR part 423, appendix A).

1.4 Method detection limits (MDLs; Reference 5) for the analytes in Table 1 are listed in that table. These MDLs were determined in reagent water (Reference 6). Advances in analytical technology, particularly the use of capillary (open-tubular) columns, allowed laboratories to routinely achieve MDLs for the analytes in this method that are 2-10 times lower than those in the version promulgated in 1984. The MDL for a specific wastewater may differ from those listed, depending on the nature of interferences in the sample matrix.

1.4.1 EPA has promulgated this method at 40 CFR part 136 for use in wastewater compliance monitoring under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The data reporting practices described in section 13.2 are focused on such monitoring needs and may not be relevant to other uses of the method.

1.4.2 This method includes "reporting limits" based on EPA's "minimum level" (ML) concept (see the glossary in section 20). Table 1 contains MDL values and ML values for many of the analytes. The MDL for an analyte in a specific wastewater may differ from that listed in Table 1, depending upon the nature of interferences in the sample matrix.

1.5 This method is performance-based. It may be modified to improve performance (e.g., to overcome interferences or improve the accuracy of results) provided all performance requirements are met.

1.5.1 Examples of allowed method modifications are described at 40 CFR 136.6. Other examples of allowed modifications specific to this method are described in section 8.1.2.

1.5.2 Any modification beyond those expressly allowed at 40 CFR 136.6 or in section 8.1.2 of this method shall be considered a major modification that is subject to application and approval of an alternate test procedure under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.

1.5.3 For regulatory compliance, any modification must be demonstrated to produce results equivalent or superior to results produced by this method when applied to relevant wastewaters (section 8.3).

1.6 This method is restricted to use by or under the supervision of analysts experienced in the operation of a purge-and-trap system and a gas chromatograph/mass spectrometer and in the interpretation of mass spectra. Each analyst must demonstrate the ability to generate acceptable results with this method using the procedure in section 8.2.

1.7 Terms and units of measure used in this method are given in the glossary at the end of the method.

2.1 A gas is bubbled through a measured volume of water in a specially-designed purging chamber. The purgeables are efficiently transferred from the aqueous phase to the vapor phase. The vapor is swept through a sorbent trap where the purgeables are trapped. After purging is completed, the trap is heated and backflushed with the gas to desorb the purgeables onto a gas chromatographic column. The column is temperature programmed to separate the purgeables which are then detected with a mass spectrometer.

2.2 Different sample sizes in the range of 5-25 mL are allowed in order to meet differing sensitivity requirements. Calibration and QC samples must have the same volume as field samples.

3.1 Impurities in the purge gas, organic compounds outgassing from the plumbing ahead of the trap, and solvent vapors in the laboratory account for the majority of contamination problems. The analytical system must be demonstrated to be free from contamination under the conditions of the analysis by analyzing blanks initially and with each analytical batch (samples analyzed on a given 12-hour shift, to a maximum of 20 samples), as described in Section 8.5. Fluoropolymer tubing, fittings, and thread sealant should be used to avoid contamination.

3.2 Samples can be contaminated by diffusion of volatile organics (particularly fluorocarbons and methylene chloride) through the septum seal into the sample during shipment and storage. Protect samples from sources of volatiles during collection, shipment, and storage. A reagent water field blank carried through sampling and analysis can serve as a check on such contamination.

3.3 Contamination by carry-over can occur whenever high level and low level samples are analyzed sequentially. To reduce the potential for carry-over, the purging device and sample syringe must be rinsed with reagent water between sample analyses. Whenever an unusually concentrated sample is encountered, it should be followed by an analysis of a blank to check for cross contamination. For samples containing large amounts of water-soluble materials, suspended solids, high boiling compounds or high purgeable levels, it may be necessary to wash the purging device with a detergent solution, rinse it with distilled water, and then dry it in a 105 &#xB0;C oven between analyses. The trap and other parts of the system are also subject to contamination; therefore, frequent bakeout and purging of the entire system may be required. Screening samples at high dilution may prevent introduction of contaminants into the system.

4.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each reagent used in this method has not been precisely defined; however, each chemical compound should be treated as a potential health hazard. From this viewpoint, exposure to these chemicals must be reduced to the lowest possible level. The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of safety data sheets (SDSs, OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200(g)) should also be made available to all personnel involved in sample handling and chemical analysis. Additional references to laboratory safety are available and have been identified (References 7-9) for the information of the analyst.

4.2. The following analytes covered by this method have been tentatively classified as known or suspected human or mammalian carcinogens: Benzene; carbon tetrachloride; chloroform; 1,4-dichlorobenzene; 1,2-dichloroethane; 1,2-dichloropropane; methylene chloride; tetrachloroethylene; trichloroethylene; and vinyl chloride. Primary standards of these toxic compounds should be prepared in a chemical fume hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when handling high concentrations of these compounds.

4.3 This method allows the use of hydrogen as a carrier gas in place of helium (Section 5.3.1.2). The laboratory should take the necessary precautions in dealing with hydrogen, and should limit hydrogen flow at the source to prevent buildup of an explosive mixture of hydrogen in air.

5.1 Sampling equipment for discrete sampling.

5.1.1 Vial-25- or 40-mL capacity, or larger, with screw cap with a hole in the center (Fisher #13075 or equivalent). Unless pre-cleaned, detergent wash, rinse with tap and reagent water, and dry at 105 +/- 5 &#xB0;C before use.

5.1.2 Septum-Fluoropolymer-faced silicone (Fisher #12722 or equivalent). Unless pre-cleaned, detergent wash, rinse with tap and reagent water, and dry at 105 +/- 5 &#xB0;C for one hour before use.

5.2 Purge-and-trap system-The purge-and-trap system consists of three separate pieces of equipment: A purging device, trap, and desorber. Several complete systems are commercially available with autosamplers. Any system that meets the performance requirements in this method may be used.

5.2.1 The purging device should accept 5- to 25-mL samples with a water column at least 3 cm deep. The purge gas must pass though the water column as finely divided bubbles. The purge gas must be introduced no more than 5 mm from the base of the water column. Purge devices of a different volume may be used so long as the performance requirements in this method are met.

5.2.2 The trap should be at least 25 cm long and have an inside diameter of at least 0.105 in. The trap should be packed to contain the following minimum lengths of adsorbents: 1.0 cm of methyl silicone coated packing (section 6.3.2), 15 cm of 2,6-diphenylene oxide polymer (section 6.3.1), and 8 cm of silica gel (section 6.3.3). A trap with different dimensions and packing materials is acceptable so long as the performance requirements in this method are met.

5.2.3 The desorber should be capable of rapidly heating the trap to the temperature necessary to desorb the analytes of interest, and of maintaining this temperature during desorption. The trap should not be heated higher than the maximum temperature recommended by the manufacturer.

5.2.4 The purge-and-trap system may be assembled as a separate unit or coupled to a gas chromatograph.

5.3 GC/MS system.

5.3.1 Gas chromatograph (GC)-An analytical system complete with a temperature programmable gas chromatograph and all required accessories, including syringes and analytical columns. Autosamplers designed for purge-and-trap analysis of volatiles also may be used.

5.3.1.1 Injection port-Volatiles interface, split, splitless, temperature programmable split/splitless (PTV), large volume, on-column, backflushed, or other.

5.3.1.2 Carrier gas-Data in the tables in this method were obtained using helium carrier gas. If another carrier gas is used, analytical conditions may need to be adjusted for optimum performance, and calibration and all QC tests must be performed with the alternative carrier gas. See Section 4.3 for precautions regarding the use of hydrogen as a carrier gas.

5.3.2 GC column-See the footnote to Table 3. Other columns or column systems may be used provided all requirements in this method are met.

5.3.3 Mass spectrometer-Capable of repetitively scanning from 35-260 Daltons (amu) every 2 seconds or less, utilizing a 70 eV (nominal) electron energy in the electron impact ionization mode, and producing a mass spectrum which meets all criteria in Table 4 when 50 ng or less of 4-bromofluorobenzene (BFB) is injected through the GC inlet. If acrolein, acrylonitrile, chloromethane, and vinyl chloride are to be determined, it may be necessary to scan from below 25 Daltons to measure the peaks in the 26-35 Dalton range for reliable identification.

5.3.4 GC/MS interface-Any GC to MS interface that meets all performance requirements in this method may be used.

5.3.5 Data system-A computer system must be interfaced to the mass spectrometer that allows continuous acquisition and storage of mass spectra throughout the chromatographic program. The computer must have software that allows searching any GC/MS data file for specific m/z's (masses) and plotting m/z abundances versus time or scan number. This type of plot is defined as an extracted ion current profile (EICP). Software must also be available that allows integrating the abundance at any EICP between specified time or scan number limits.

5.4 Syringes-Graduated, 5-25 mL, glass hypodermic with Luerlok tip, compatible with the purging device.

5.5 Micro syringes-Graduated, 25-1000 µL, with 0.006 in. ID needle.

5.6 Syringe valve-Two-way, with Luer ends.

5.7 Syringe-5 mL, gas-tight with shut-off valve.

5.8 Bottle-15 mL, screw-cap, with Teflon cap liner.

5.9 Balance-Analytical, capable of accurately weighing 0.0001 g.

6.1 Reagent water-Reagent water is defined as water in which the analytes of interest and interfering compounds are not detected at the MDLs of the analytes of interest. It may be generated by passing deionized water, distilled water, or tap water through a carbon bed, passing the water through a water purifier, or heating the water to between 90 and 100 &#xB0;C while bubbling contaminant-free gas through it for approximately 1 hour. While still hot, transfer the water to screw-cap bottles and seal with a fluoropolymer-lined cap.

6.2 Sodium thiosulfate-(ACS) Granular.

6.3 Trap materials.

6.3.1 2,6-Diphenylene oxide polymer-Tenax, 60/80 mesh, chromatographic grade, or equivalent.

6.3.2 Methyl silicone packing-3% OV-1 on Chromosorb-W, 60/80 mesh, or equivalent.

6.3.3 Silica gel-35/60 mesh, Davison, Grade-15 or equivalent.

6.3.4 Other trap materials are acceptable if performance requirements in this method are met.

6.4 Methanol-Demonstrated to be free from the target analytes and potentially interfering compounds.

6.5 Stock standard solutions-Stock standard solutions may be prepared from pure materials, or purchased as certified solutions. Traceability must be to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other national or international standard, when available. Stock solution concentrations alternative to those below may be used. Prepare stock standard solutions in methanol using assayed liquids or gases as appropriate. Because some of the compounds in this method are known to be toxic, primary dilutions should be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when high concentrations of neat materials are handled. The following procedure may be used to prepare standards from neat materials:

6.5.1 Place about 9.8 mL of methanol in a 10-mL ground-glass-stoppered volumetric flask. Allow the flask to stand, unstoppered, for about 10 minutes or until all alcohol wetted surfaces have dried. Weigh the flask to the nearest 0.1 mg.

6.5.2 Add the assayed reference material.

6.5.2.1 Liquids-Using a 100 µL syringe, immediately add two or more drops of assayed reference material to the flask. Be sure that the drops fall directly into the alcohol without contacting the neck of the flask. Reweigh, dilute to volume, stopper, then mix by inverting the flask several times. Calculate the concentration in µg/µL from the net gain in weight.

6.5.2.2 Gases-To prepare standards for any of compounds that boil below 30 &#xB0;C, fill a 5-mL valved gas-tight syringe with reference standard vapor to the 5.0 mL mark. Lower the needle to 5 mm above the methanol meniscus. Slowly introduce the vapor above the surface of the liquid (the vapor will rapidly dissolve in the methanol). Reweigh, dilute to volume, stopper, then mix by inverting the flask several times. Calculate the concentration in µg/µL from the net gain in weight.

6.5.3 When compound purity is assayed to be 96% or greater, the weight may be used without correction to calculate the concentration of the stock standard. Commercially prepared stock standards may be used at any concentration if they are certified by the manufacturer or by an independent source.

6.5.4 Prepare fresh standards weekly for the gases and 2-chloroethylvinyl ether. Unless stated otherwise in this method, store non-aqueous standards in fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap, or heat-sealed, glass containers, in the dark at -20 to -10 &#xB0;C. Store aqueous standards; e.g., the aqueous LCS (section 8.4.1) in the dark at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C (but do not freeze) with zero headspace; e.g., in VOA vials (section 5.1.1). Standards prepared by the laboratory may be stored for up to one month, except when comparison with QC check standards indicates that a standard has degraded or become more concentrated due to evaporation, or unless the laboratory has data on file to prove stability for a longer period. Commercially prepared standards may be stored until the expiration date provided by the vendor, except when comparison with QC check standards indicates that a standard has degraded or become more concentrated due to evaporation, or unless the laboratory has data from the vendor on file to prove stability for a longer period.

6.6 Secondary dilution standards-Using stock solutions, prepare secondary dilution standards in methanol that contain the compounds of interest, either singly or mixed. Secondary dilution standards should be prepared at concentrations such that the aqueous calibration standards prepared in section 7.3.2 will bracket the working range of the analytical system.

6.7 Surrogate standard spiking solution-Select a minimum of three surrogate compounds from Table 5. The surrogates selected should match the purging characteristics of the analytes of interest as closely as possible. Prepare a stock standard solution for each surrogate in methanol as described in section 6.5, and prepare a solution for spiking the surrogates into all blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs. Prepare the spiking solution such that spiking a small volume will result in a constant concentration of the surrogates. For example, add 10 µL of a spiking solution containing the surrogates at a concentration of 15 µg/mL in methanol to a 5-mL aliquot of water to produce a concentration of 30 µg/L for each surrogate. Other surrogate concentrations may be used. Store per section 6.5.4.

6.8 BFB standard-Prepare a solution of BFB in methanol as described in Sections 6.5 and 6.6. The solution should be prepared such that an injection or purging from water will result in introduction of &#x2264; 50 ng into the GC. BFB may be included in a mixture with the internal standards and/or surrogates.

6.9 Quality control check sample concentrate-See Section 8.2.1.

7.1 Assemble a purge-and-trap system that meets the specifications in Section 5.2. Prior to first use, condition the trap overnight at 180 &#xB0;C by backflushing with gas at a flow rate of at least 20 mL/min. Condition the trap after each analysis at a temperature and time sufficient to prevent detectable concentrations of the analytes or contaminants in successive analyses.

7.2 Connect the purge-and-trap system to the gas chromatograph. The gas chromatograph should be operated using temperature and flow rate conditions equivalent to those given in the footnotes to Table 3. Alternative temperature and flow rate conditions may be used provided that performance requirements in this method are met.

7.3 Internal standard calibration.

7.3.1 Internal standards.

7.3.1.1 Select three or more internal standards similar in chromatographic behavior to the compounds of interest. Suggested internal standards are listed in Table 5. Use the base peak m/z as the primary m/z for quantification of the standards. If interferences are found at the base peak, use one of the next two most intense m/z's for quantitation. Demonstrate that measurements of the internal standards are not affected by method or matrix interferences.

7.3.1.2 To assure accurate analyte identification, particularly when selected ion monitoring (SIM) is used, it may be advantageous to include more internal standards than those suggested in Section 7.3.1.1. An analyte will be located most accurately if its retention time relative to an internal standard is in the range of 0.8 to 1.2.

7.3.1.3 Prepare a stock standard solution for each internal standard in methanol as described in Section 6.5, and prepare a solution for spiking the internal standards into all blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs. Prepare the spiking solution such that spiking a small volume will result in a constant concentration of the internal standards. For example, add 10 µL of a spiking solution containing the internal standards at a concentration of 15 µg/mL in methanol to a 5-mL aliquot of water to produce a concentration of 30 µg/L for each internal standard. Other concentrations may be used. The internal standard solution and the surrogate standard spiking solution (Section 6.7) may be combined, if desired. Store per section 6.5.4.

7.3.2 Calibration.

7.3.2.1 Calibration standards.

7.3.2.1.1 Prepare calibration standards at a minimum of five concentration levels for each analyte of interest by adding appropriate volumes of one or more stock standards to a fixed volume (e.g., 40 mL) of reagent water in volumetric glassware. Fewer levels may be necessary for some analytes based on the sensitivity of the MS, but no fewer than 3 levels may be used, and only the highest or lowest point(s) may be dropped from the calibration. One of the calibration standards should be at a concentration at or below the ML or as specified by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit. The ML value may be rounded to a whole number that is more convenient for preparing the standard, but must not exceed the ML values listed in Table 1 for those analytes which list ML values. Alternatively, the laboratory may establish the ML for each analyte based on the concentration of the lowest calibration standard in a series of standards produced in the laboratory or obtained from a commercial vendor, again, provided that the ML value does not exceed the MLs in Table 1, and provided that the resulting calibration meets the acceptance criteria in Section 7.3.4, based on the RSD, RSE, or R. The concentrations of the higher standards should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples, or should define the working range of the GC/MS system for full-scan and/or SIM operation, as appropriate. A minimum of six concentration levels is required for a second order, non-linear (e.g., quadratic; ax+ bx + c = 0) calibration. Calibrations higher than second order are not allowed.

7.3.2.1.2 To each calibration standard or standard mixture, add a known constant volume of the internal standard spiking solution (section 7.3.1.3) and surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.7) or the combined internal standard solution and surrogate spiking solution (section 7.3.1.3). Aqueous standards may be stored up to 24 hours, if held in sealed vials with zero headspace. If not so stored, they must be discarded after one hour.

7.3.2.2 Prior to analysis of the calibration standards, analyze the BFB standard (section 6.8) and adjust the scan rate of the MS to produce a minimum of 5 mass spectra across the BFB GC peak, but do not exceed 2 seconds per scan. Adjust instrument conditions until the BFB criteria in Table 4 are met. Once the scan conditions are established, they must be used for analyses of all standards, blanks, and samples.

7.3.2.3 Analyze the mid-point standard and enter or review the retention time, relative retention time, mass spectrum, and quantitation m/z in the data system for each analyte of interest, surrogate, and internal standard. If additional analytes (Table 2) are to be quantified, include these analytes in the standard. The mass spectrum for each analyte must be comprised of a minimum of 2 m/z's; 3 to 5 m/z's assure more reliable analyte identification. Suggested quantitation m/z's are shown in Table 6 as the primary m/z. For analytes in Table 6 that do not have a secondary m/z, acquire a mass spectrum and enter one or more secondary m/z's for more reliable identification. If an interference occurs at the primary m/z, use one of the secondary m/z's or an alternative m/z. A single m/z only is required for quantitation.

7.3.2.4 For SIM operation, determine the analytes in each descriptor, the quantitation m/z for each analyte (the quantitation m/z can be the same as for full-scan operation; Section 7.3.2.3), the dwell time on each m/z for each analyte, and the beginning and ending retention time for each descriptor. Analyze the verification standard in scan mode to verify m/z's and establish retention times for the analytes. There must be a minimum of two m/z's for each analyte to assure analyte identification. To maintain sensitivity, the number of m/z's in a descriptor should be limited. For example, for a descriptor with 10 m/z's and a chromatographic peak width of 5 sec, a dwell time of 100 ms at each m/z would result in a scan time of 1 second and provide 5 scans across the GC peak. The quantitation m/z will usually be the most intense peak in the mass spectrum. The quantitation m/z and dwell time may be optimized for each analyte. The acquisition table used for SIM must take into account the mass defect (usually less than 0.2 Dalton) that can occur at each m/z monitored. Refer to the footnotes to Table 3 for establishing operating conditions and to section 7.3.2.2 for establishing scan conditions.

7.3.2.5 For combined scan and SIM operation, set up the scan segments and descriptors to meet requirements in sections 7.3.2.2-7.3.2.4. Analyze unfamiliar samples in the scan mode to assure that the analytes of interest are determined.

7.3.3 Analyze each calibration standard according to Section 10 and tabulate the area at the quantitation m/z against concentration for each analyte of interest, surrogate, and internal standard. Calculate the response factor (RF) for each compound at each concentration using Equation 1.

7.3.4 Calculate the mean (average) and relative standard deviation (RSD) of the response factors. If the RSD is less than 35%, the RF can be assumed to be invariant and the average RF can be used for calculations. Alternatively, the results can be used to fit a linear or quadratic regression of response ratios, A/A, vs. concentration ratios Cs/Cis. If used, the regression must be weighted inversely proportional to concentration (1/C). The coefficient of determination (R) of the weighted regression must be greater than 0.920 (this value roughly corresponds to the RSD limit of 35%). Alternatively, the relative standard error (Reference 10) may be used as an acceptance criterion. As with the RSD, the RSE must be less than 35%. If an RSE less than 35% cannot be achieved for a quadratic regression, system performance is unacceptable, and the system must be adjusted and re-calibrated.

7.4 Calibration verification-Because the analytical system is calibrated by purge of the analytes from water, calibration verification is performed using the laboratory control sample (LCS). See section 8.4 for requirements for calibration verification using the LCS, and the Glossary for further definition.

8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and ongoing analysis of spiked samples and blanks to evaluate and document data quality (40 CFR 136.7). The laboratory must maintain records to document the quality of data generated. Results of ongoing performance tests are compared with established QC acceptance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet performance requirements of this method. When results of spiked samples do not meet the QC acceptance criteria in this method, a quality control check sample (laboratory control sample; LCS) must be analyzed to confirm that the measurements were performed in an in-control mode of operation. A laboratory may develop its own performance criteria (as QC acceptance criteria), provided such criteria are as or more restrictive than the criteria in this method.

8.1.1 The laboratory must make an initial demonstration of capability (DOC) to generate acceptable precision and recovery with this method. This demonstration is detailed in Section 8.2. On a continuing basis, the laboratory must repeat demonstration of capability (DOC) at least annually.

8.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in analytical technology, and to overcome matrix interferences, the laboratory is permitted certain options (section 1.5 and 40 CFR 136.6(b)) to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements. These options may include an alternative purge-and-trap device, and changes in both column and type of mass spectrometer (see 40 CFR 136.6(b)(4)(xvi)). Alternative determinative techniques, such as substitution of spectroscopic or immunoassay techniques, and changes that degrade method performance, are not allowed. If an analytical technique other than GC/MS is used, that technique must have a specificity equal to or greater than the specificity of GC/MS for the analytes of interest. The laboratory is also encouraged to participate in inter-comparison and performance evaluation studies (see section 8.8).

8.1.2.1 Each time a modification is made to this method, the laboratory is required to repeat the procedure in section 8.2. If the detection limit of the method will be affected by the change, the laboratory must demonstrate that the MDLs (40 CFR part 136, appendix B) are lower than one-third the regulatory compliance limit or the MDLs in this method, whichever are greater. If calibration will be affected by the change, the instrument must be recalibrated per section 7. Once the modification is demonstrated to produce results equivalent or superior to results produced by this method, that modification may be used routinely thereafter, so long as the other requirements in this method are met (e.g., matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate recovery and relative percent difference).

8.1.2.1.1 If a modification is to be applied to a specific discharge, the laboratory must prepare and analyze matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD) samples (Section 8.3) and LCS samples (section 8.4). The laboratory must include internal standards and surrogates (section 8.7) in each of the samples. The MS/MSD and LCS samples must be fortified with the analytes of interest (section 1.3.). If the modification is for nationwide use, MS/MSD samples must be prepared from a minimum of nine different discharges (See section 8.1.2.1.2), and all QC acceptance criteria in this method must be met. This evaluation only needs to be performed once, other than for the routine QC required by this method (for example it could be performed by the vendor of the alternative materials) but any laboratory using that specific material must have the results of the study available. This includes a full data package with the raw data that will allow an independent reviewer to verify each determination and calculation performed by the laboratory (see section 8.1.2.2.5, items (a)-(l)).

8.1.2.1.2 Sample matrices on which MS/MSD tests must be performed for nationwide use of an allowed modification:

(a) Effluent from a publicly owned treatment works (POTW).

(b) ASTM D5905 Standard Specification for Substitute Wastewater.

(c) Sewage sludge, if sewage sludge will be in the permit.

(d) ASTM D1141 Standard Specification for Substitute Ocean Water, if ocean water will be in the permit.
