
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### whichever is greater,

8.5.2 If an analyte of interest is found in the blank: At a concentration greater than the MDL for the analyte, at a concentration greater than one-third the regulatory compliance limit, or at a concentration greater than one-tenth the concentration in a sample in the extraction batch,analysis of samples must be halted, and the problem corrected. If the contamination is traceable to the extraction batch, samples affected by the blank must be re-extracted and the extracts re-analyzed. If, however, continued re-testing results in repeated blank contamination, the laboratory must document and report the failures (e.g., as qualifiers on results), unless the failures are not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with blank contamination for an analyte regulated in a discharge cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results.

8.6 Internal standards responses.

8.6.1 Calibration verification-The responses (GC peak heights or areas) of the internal standards in the calibration verification must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of their respective responses in the mid-point calibration standard. If they are not, repeat the calibration verification (Section 7.4) test or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to repair, repeat the calibration verification. If the responses are still not within 50% to 200%, re-calibrate the instrument (Section 7) and repeat the calibration verification test.

8.6.2 Samples, blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs-The responses (GC peak heights or areas) of each internal standard in each sample, blank, and MS/MSD must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of its respective response in the LCS for the extraction batch. If, as a group, all internal standards are not within this range, perform and document system repair, repeat the calibration verification (section 8.4), and re-analyze the affected samples. If a single internal standard is not within the 50% to 200% range, use an alternate internal standard for quantitation of the analyte referenced to the affected internal standard. It may be necessary to use the data system to calculate a new response factor from calibration data for the alternate internal standard/analyte pair. If an internal standard fails the 50-200% criteria and no analytes are detected in the sample, ignore the failure or report it if required by the regulatory/control authority.

8.7 Surrogate recoveries-The laboratory must evaluate surrogate recovery data in each sample against its in-house surrogate recovery limits. The laboratory may use 60-140% as interim acceptance criteria for recoveries for surrogates not listed in Table 8. At least 80% of the surrogates must meet the 60-140% interim criteria until in-house limits are developed. Alternatively, surrogate recovery limits may be developed from laboratory control charts, but such limits must be at least as restrictive as those in Table 8. Spike the surrogates into all samples, blanks, LCSs, and MS/MSDs. Compare surrogate recoveries against the QC acceptance criteria in Table 8 and/or those developed in section 7.3.3 or 8.4.5. If any recovery fails its criteria, attempt to find and correct the cause of the failure. See section 8.1.7 for disposition of failures.

8.8 DDT and endrin decomposition (breakdown)-If DDT and/or endrin are to be analyzed using this method, the DDT/endrin decomposition test in section 13.8 must be performed to reliably quantify these two pesticides.

8.9 As part of the QC program for the laboratory, control charts or statements of accuracy for wastewater samples must be assessed and records maintained (40 CFR 136.7(c)(1)(viii)). After analysis of five or more spiked wastewater samples as in section 8.3, calculate the average percent recovery (P) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (sp). Express the accuracy assessment as a percent interval from P-2sp to P+2sp. For example, if P= 90% and sp = 10%, the accuracy interval is expressed as 70-110%. Update the accuracy assessment for each analyte on a regular basis (e.g., after each 5-10 new accuracy measurements). If desired, statements of accuracy for laboratory performance, independent of performance on samples, may be developed using LCSs.

8.10 It is recommended that the laboratory adopt additional quality assurance practices for use with this method. The specific practices that are most productive depend upon the needs of the laboratory and the nature of the samples. Field duplicates may be analyzed to assess the precision of environmental measurements. Whenever possible, the laboratory should analyze standard reference materials and participate in relevant performance evaluation studies.

9.1 Collect samples as grab samples in amber or clear glass bottles, or in refrigerated bottles using automatic sampling equipment. If clear glass is used, protect samples from light. Collect 1-L of ambient waters, effluents, and other aqueous samples. If the sensitivity of the analytical system is sufficient, a smaller volume (e.g., 250 mL), but no less than 100 mL, may be used. Conventional sampling practices (Reference 15) should be followed, except that the bottle must not be pre-rinsed with sample before collection. Automatic sampling equipment must be as free as possible of polyvinyl chloride or other tubing or other potential sources of contamination. If needed, collect additional sample(s) for the MS/MSD (section 8.3).

9.2 Ice or refrigerate samples at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until extraction, but do not freeze. If residual chlorine is present, add 80 mg of sodium thiosulfate per liter of sample and mix well. Any method suitable for field use may be employed to test for residual chlorine (Reference 16). Add more sodium sulfate if 80 mg/L is insufficient but do not add excess sodium thiosulfate. If sodium thiosulfate interferes in the determination of the analytes, an alternate preservative (e.g., ascorbic acid or sodium sulfite) may be used. If preservative has been added, shake the sample vigorously for one minute. Maintain the hermetic seal on the sample bottle until time of analysis.

9.3 All samples must be extracted within 7 days of collection and sample extracts must be analyzed within 40 days of extraction.

10.1 This section contains procedures for separatory funnel liquid-liquid extraction (SFLLE) and continuous liquid-liquid extraction (CLLE). SFLLE is faster, but may not be as effective as CLLE for recovery of polar analytes such as phenol. SFLLE is labor intensive and may result in formation of emulsions that are difficult to break. CLLE is less labor intensive, avoids emulsion formation, but requires more time (18-24 hours) and more hood space, and may require more solvent. The procedures assume base-neutral extraction followed by acid extraction. For some matrices and analytes of interest, improved results may be obtained by acid-neutral extraction followed by base extraction. A single acid or base extraction may also be performed. If an extraction scheme alternate to base-neutral followed by acid extraction is used, all QC tests must be performed and all QC acceptance criteria must be met with that extraction scheme as an integral part of this method. Solid-phase extraction (SPE) may be used provided requirements in section 8.1.2 are met.

10.2 Separatory funnel liquid-liquid extraction (SFLLE) and extract concentration.

10.2.1 The SFLLE procedure below assumes a sample volume of 1 L. When a different sample volume is extracted, adjust the volume of methylene chloride accordingly.

10.2.2 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Pour the entire sample into the separatory funnel. Pipet the surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.8) into the separatory funnel. If the sample will be used for the LCS or MS or MSD, pipet the appropriate check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1 or 8.3.2) into the separatory funnel. Mix well. Check the pH of the sample with wide-range pH paper and adjust to pH 11-13 with sodium hydroxide solution.

10.2.3 Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake for approximately 30 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the separatory funnel and extract the sample by shaking the funnel for two minutes with periodic venting to release excess pressure. Allow the organic layer to separate from the water phase for a minimum of 10 minutes. If the emulsion interface between layers is more than one-third the volume of the solvent layer, the analyst must employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation. The optimum technique depends upon the sample, but may include stirring, filtration of the emulsion through glass wool or phase-separation paper, salting, centrifugation, or other physical methods. Collect the methylene chloride extract in a flask. If the emulsion cannot be broken (recovery of <80% of the methylene chloride), transfer the sample, solvent, and emulsion into a continuous extractor and proceed as described in section 10.3.

10.2.4 Add a second 60-mL volume of methylene chloride to the sample bottle and repeat the extraction procedure a second time, combining the extracts in the Erlenmeyer flask. Perform a third extraction in the same manner.

10.2.5 Adjust the pH of the aqueous phase to less than 2 using sulfuric acid. Serially extract the acidified aqueous phase three times with 60 mL aliquots of methylene chloride. Collect and combine the extracts in a flask in the same manner as the base/neutral extracts.

10.2.6 For each fraction or the combined fractions, assemble a Kuderna-Danish (K-D) concentrator by attaching a 10-mL concentrator tube to a 500-mL evaporative flask. Other concentration devices or techniques may be used in place of the K-D concentrator so long as the requirements in section 8.2 are met.

10.2.7 For each fraction or the combined fractions, pour the extract through a solvent-rinsed drying column containing about 10 cm of anhydrous sodium sulfate, and collect the extract in the K-D concentrator. Rinse the Erlenmeyer flask and column with 20-30 mL of methylene chloride to complete the quantitative transfer.

10.2.8 Add one or two clean boiling chips and attach a three-ball Snyder column to the evaporative flask for each fraction (section 10.2.7). Pre-wet the Snyder column by adding about 1 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60-65 &#xB0;C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in the hot water, and the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with hot vapor. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches 1 mL or other determined amount, remove the K-D apparatus from the water bath and allow to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1-2 mL of methylene chloride. A 5-mL syringe is recommended for this operation. If the sample will be cleaned up, reserve the K-D apparatus for concentration of the cleaned up extract. Adjust the volume to 5 mL with methylene chloride and proceed to section 11 for cleanup; otherwise, further concentrate the extract for GC/MS analysis per section 10.2.9 or 10.2.10.

10.2.9 Micro Kuderna-Danish concentration-Add another one or two clean boiling chips to the concentrator tube for each fraction and attach a two-ball micro-Snyder column. Pre-wet the Snyder column by adding about 0.5 mL of methylene chloride to the top. Place the K-D apparatus on a hot water bath (60-65 &#xB0;C) so that the concentrator tube is partially immersed in hot water. Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5-10 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood with condensed solvent. When the apparent volume of liquid reaches about 1 mL or other determined amount, remove the K-D apparatus from the water bath and allow it to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with approximately 0.2 mL of or methylene chloride. Adjust the final volume to 1.0 mL or a volume appropriate to the sensitivity desired (e.g., to meet lower MDLs or for selected ion monitoring). Record the volume, stopper the concentrator tube and store refrigerated if further processing will not be performed immediately. If the extracts will be stored longer than two days, they should be transferred to fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap vials and labeled base/neutral or acid fraction as appropriate. Mark the level of the extract on the vial so that solvent loss can be detected.

10.2.10 Nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange-Extracts may be concentrated for analysis using nitrogen evaporation in place of micro K-D concentration (section 10.2.9). Extracts that have been cleaned up using sulfur removal (section 11.2) and are ready for analysis are exchanged into methylene chloride.

10.2.10.1 Transfer the vial containing the sample extract to the nitrogen evaporation (blowdown) device (section 5.8). Lower the vial into the water bath and begin concentrating. If the more volatile analytes (section 1.2) are to be concentrated, use room temperature for concentration; otherwise, a slightly elevated (e.g., 30-45 &#xB0;C) may be used. During the solvent evaporation process, keep the solvent level below the water level of the bath and do not allow the extract to become dry. Adjust the flow of nitrogen so that the surface of the solvent is just visibly disturbed. A large vortex in the solvent may cause analyte loss.

10.2.10.2 Extracts to be solvent exchanged-When the volume of the liquid is approximately 200 µL, add 2 to 3 mL of methylene chloride and continue concentrating to approximately 100 µL. Repeat the addition of solvent and concentrate once more. Adjust the final extract volume to be consistent with the volume extracted and the sensitivity desired.

10.2.10.3 For extracts that have been cleaned up by GPC and that are to be concentrated to a nominal volume of 1 mL, adjust the final volume to compensate the GPC loss. For a 50% GPC loss, concentrate the extract to 1/2000 of the volume extracted. For example, if the volume extracted is 950 mL, adjust the final volume to 0.48 mL. For extracts that have not been cleaned up by GPC and are to be concentrated to a nominal volume of 1.0 mL, adjust the final extract volume to 1/1000 of the volume extracted. For example, if the volume extracted is 950 mL, adjust the final extract volume to 0.95 mL. Alternative means of compensating the loss during GPC are acceptable so long as they produce results as accurate as results produced using the procedure detailed in this Section. An alternative final volume may be used, if desired, and the calculations adjusted accordingly.

10.2.11 Transfer the concentrated extract to a vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap. Seal the vial and label with the sample number. Store in the dark at room temperature until ready for GC analysis. If GC analysis will not be performed on the same day, store the vial in the dark at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C. Analyze the extract by GC/MS per the procedure in section 12.

10.2.12 Determine the original sample volume by refilling the sample bottle to the mark and transferring the liquid to an appropriately sized graduated cylinder. For sample volumes on the order of 1000 mL, record the sample volume to the nearest 10 mL; for sample volumes on the order of 100 mL, record the volume to the nearest 1 mL. Sample volumes may also be determined by weighing the container before and after filling to the mark with water.

10.3 Continuous liquid/liquid extraction (CLLE).

10.3.1 Use CLLE when experience with a sample from a given source indicates an emulsion problem, or when an emulsion is encountered during SFLLE. CLLE may be used for all samples, if desired.

10.3.2 Mark the water meniscus on the side of the sample bottle for later determination of sample volume. Check the pH of the sample with wide-range pH paper and adjust to pH 11-13 with sodium hydroxide solution. Transfer the sample to the continuous extractor. Pipet surrogate standard spiking solution (section 6.8) into the sample. If the sample will be used for the LCS or MS or MSD, pipet the appropriate check sample concentrate (section 8.2.1 or 8.3.2) into the extractor. Mix well. Add 60 mL of methylene chloride to the sample bottle, seal, and shake for 30 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the extractor.

10.3.3 Repeat the sample bottle rinse with an additional 50-100 mL portion of methylene chloride and add the rinse to the extractor.

10.3.4 Add a suitable volume of methylene chloride to the distilling flask (generally 200-500 mL), add sufficient reagent water to ensure proper operation, and extract for 18-24 hours. A shorter or longer extraction time may be used if all QC acceptance criteria are met. Test and, if necessary, adjust the pH of the water during the second or third hour of the extraction. After extraction, allow the apparatus to cool, then detach the distilling flask. Dry, concentrate, and seal the extract per sections 10.2.6 through 10.2.11. See the note at section 10.2.5 regarding combining extracts of the base/neutral and acid fractions.

10.3.5 Charge the distilling flask with methylene chloride and attach it to the continuous extractor. Carefully, while stirring, adjust the pH of the aqueous phase to less than 2 using sulfuric acid. Extract for 18-24 hours. A shorter or longer extraction time may be used if all QC acceptance criteria are met. Test and, if necessary, adjust the pH of the water during the second or third hour of the extraction. After extraction, allow the apparatus to cool, then detach the distilling flask. Dry, concentrate, and seal the extract per sections 10.2.6 through 10.2.11. Determine the sample volume per section 10.2.12.

11.1 Gel permeation chromatography (GPC).

11.1.1 Calibration.

11.1.1.1 Load the calibration solution (section 6.12) into the sample loop.

11.1.1.2 Inject the calibration solution and record the signal from the detector. The elution pattern will be corn oil, bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, pentachlorophenol, perylene, and sulfur.

11.1.1.3 Set the "dump time" to allow >85% removal of the corn oil and >85% collection of the phthalate.

11.1.1.4 Set the "collect time" to the peak minimum between perylene and sulfur.

11.1.1.5 Verify calibration with the calibration solution after every 20 or fewer extracts. Calibration is verified if the recovery of the pentachlorophenol is greater than 85%. If calibration is not verified, recalibrate using the calibration solution, and re-extract and clean up the preceding extracts using the calibrated GPC system.

11.1.2 Extract cleanup-GPC requires that the column not be overloaded. The column specified in this method is designed to handle a maximum of 0.5 g of high molecular weight material in a 5-mL extract. If the extract is known or expected to contain more than 0.5 g, the extract is split into fractions for GPC and the fractions are combined after elution from the column. The solids content of the extract may be obtained gravimetrically by evaporating the solvent from a 50-µL aliquot.

11.1.2.1 Filter the extract or load through the filter holder to remove particulates. Load the extract into the sample loop. The maximum capacity of the column is 0.5-1.0 g. If necessary, split the extract into multiple aliquots to prevent column overload.

11.1.2.2 Elute the extract using the calibration data determined in Section 11.1.1. Collect the eluate in the K-D apparatus reserved in section 10.2.8.

11.1.3 Concentrate the cleaned up extract per sections 10.2.8 and 10.2.9 or 10.2.10.

11.1.4 Rinse the sample loading tube thoroughly with methylene chloride between extracts to prepare for the next sample.

11.1.5 If a particularly dirty extract is encountered, run a methylene chloride blank through the system to check for carry-over.

11.2 Sulfur removal.

11.2.1 Removal with copper (Reference 17).

11.2.1.1 Quantitatively transfer the extract from section 10.2.8 to a 40- to 50-mL flask or bottle. If there is evidence of water in the concentrator tube after the transfer, rinse the tube with small portions of hexane:acetone (40:60) and add to the flask or bottle. Mark and set aside the concentrator tube for use in re-concentrating the extract.

11.2.1.2 Add 10-20 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to the flask. Swirl to dry the extract.

11.2.1.3 Add activated copper (section 6.13.1.4) and allow to stand for 30-60 minutes, swirling occasionally. If the copper does not remain bright, add more and swirl occasionally for another 30-60 minutes.

11.2.1.4 After drying and sulfur removal, quantitatively transfer the extract to a nitrogen-evaporation vial or tube and proceed to section 10.2.10 for nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange, taking care to leave the sodium sulfate and copper in the flask.

11.2.2 Removal with TBA sulfite.

11.2.2.1 Using small volumes of hexane, quantitatively transfer the extract to a 40- to 50-mL centrifuge tube with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap.

11.2.2.2 Add 1-2 mL of TBA sulfite reagent (section 6.13.2.4), 2-3 mL of 2-propanol, and approximately 0.7 g of sodium sulfite (section 6.13.2.2) crystals to the tube. Cap and shake for 1-2 minutes. If the sample is colorless or if the initial color is unchanged, and if clear crystals (precipitated sodium sulfite) are observed, sufficient sodium sulfite is present. If the precipitated sodium sulfite disappears, add more crystalline sodium sulfite in approximately 0.5 g portions until a solid residue remains after repeated shaking.

11.2.2.3 Add 5-10 mL of reagent water and shake for 1-2 minutes. Centrifuge to settle the solids.

11.2.2.4 Quantitatively transfer the hexane (top) layer through a small funnel containing a few grams of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate to a nitrogen-evaporation vial or tube and proceed to section 10.2.10 for nitrogen evaporation and solvent exchange.

12.1 Establish the operating conditions in Table 4 or 5 for analysis of a base/neutral or acid extract, respectively. For analysis of a combined extract (section 10.2.5, note), use the operating conditions in Table 4 MDLs and MLs for the analytes are given in Tables 1, 2, and 3. Retention times for many of the analytes are given in Tables 4 and 5. Examples of the separations achieved are shown in Figure 2 for the combined extract. Alternative columns or chromatographic conditions may be used if the requirements of section 8.2 are met. Verify system performance per section 13.

12.2 Analysis of a standard or extract.

12.2.1 Bring the standard or concentrated extract (section 10.2.9 or 10.2.11) to room temperature and verify that any precipitate has redissolved. Verify the level on the extract and bring to the mark with solvent if required.

12.2.2 Add the internal standard solution (section 6.9) to the extract. Mix thoroughly.

12.2.3 Inject an appropriate volume of the sample extract or standard solution using split, splitless, solvent purge, large-volume, or on-column injection. If the sample is injected manually the solvent-flush technique should be used. The injection volume depends upon the technique used and the ability to meet MDLs or reporting limits for regulatory compliance. Injected volumes must be the same for standards and sample extracts. Record the volume injected to two significant figures.

12.2.3.1 Start the GC column oven program upon injection. Start MS data collection after the solvent peak elutes. Stop data collection after benzo(ghi)perylene elutes for the base/neutral or combined fractions, or after pentachlorophenol elutes for the acid fraction. Return the column to the initial temperature for analysis of the next standard solution or extract.

12.2.3.2 If the concentration of any analyte of interest exceeds the calibration range, either extract and analyze a smaller sample volume, or dilute and analyze the diluted extract after bringing the concentrations of the internal standards to the levels in the undiluted extract.

12.2.4 Perform all qualitative and quantitative measurements as described in Sections 14 and 15. When standards and extracts are not being used for analyses, store them refrigerated at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C protected from light in screw-cap vials equipped with un-pierced fluoropolymer-lined septa.

13.1 At the beginning of each 12-hour shift during which standards or extracts will be analyzed, perform the tests in sections 13.2-13.4 to verify system performance. If an extract is concentrated for greater sensitivity (e.g., by SIM), all tests must be performed at levels consistent with the reduced extract volume.

13.2 DFTPP-Inject the DFTPP standard (section 6.10) and verify that the criteria for DFTPP in section 7.2.1.1 and Table 9A (Reference 18) for a quadrupole MS, or Table 9B (Reference 19) for a time-of-flight MS, are met.

13.3 GC resolution-The resolution should be verified on the mid-point concentration of the initial calibration as well as the laboratory designated continuing calibration verification level if closely eluting isomers are to be reported (e.g., benzo(b)fluoranthene and benzo(k)fluoranthene). Sufficient gas chromatographic resolution is achieved if the height of the valley between two isomer peaks is less than 50% of the average of the two peak heights.

13.4 Calibration verification-Verify calibration per sections 7.3 and Table 6.

13.5 Peak tailing-Verify the tailing factor specifications are met per Section 7.2.1.1.

13.6 Laboratory control sample and blank-Analyze the extracts of the LCS and blank at the beginning of analyses of samples in the extraction batch (section 3.1). The LCS must meet the requirements in section 8.4, and the blank must meet the requirements in section 8.5 before sample extracts may be analyzed.

13.7 Analysis of DFTPP, the DDT/Endrin decomposition test (if used), the LCS, and the blank are outside of the 12-hour analysis shift (section 3.1). The total time for DFTPP, DDT/Endrin, the LCS, the blank, and the 12-hour shift must not exceed 15 hours.

13.8 Decomposition of DDT and endrin-If DDT and/or endrin are to be determined, this test must be performed prior to calibration verification (section 13.4). The QC acceptance criteria (section 13.8.3) must be met before analyzing samples for DDE and/or Endrin. DDT decomposes to DDE and DDD. Endrin decomposes to endrin aldehyde and endrin ketone.

13.8.1 Inject 1 µL of the DDT and endrin decomposition solution (section 6.14). As noted in section 6.14, other injection volumes may be used as long as the concentrations of DDT and endrin in the solution are adjusted to introduce the masses of the two analytes into the instrument that are listed in section 6.14.

13.8.2 Measure the areas of the peaks for DDT, DDE, DDD, Endrin, Endrin aldehyde, and Endrin ketone. Calculate the percent breakdown as shown in the equations below:

13.8.3 Both the % breakdown of DDT and of Endrin must be less than 20%, otherwise the system is not performing acceptably for DDT and endrin. In this case, repair the GC column system that failed and repeat the performance tests (sections 13.2 to 13.6) until the specification is met.

14.1 Identification is accomplished by comparison of data from analysis of a sample or blank with data stored in the GC/MS data system (sections 5.6.5 and 7.2.1.2). Identification of an analyte is confirmed per sections 14.1.1 through 14.1.4.

14.1.1 The signals for the quantitation and secondary m/z's stored in the data system for each analyte of interest must be present and must maximize within the same two consecutive scans.

14.1.2 The retention time for the analyte should be within +/- 10 seconds of the analyte in the calibration verification run at the beginning of the shift (section 7.3 or 13.4).

14.1.3 Either the background corrected EICP areas, or the corrected relative intensities of the mass spectral peaks at the GC peak maximum, must agree within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2 times) for the quantitation and secondary m/z's in the reference mass spectrum stored in the data system (section 7.2.1.2), or from a reference library. For example, if a peak has an intensity of 20% relative to the base peak, the analyte is identified if the intensity of the peak in the sample is in the range of 10% to 40% of the base peak. If identification is ambiguous, an experienced spectrometrist (section 1.7) must determine the presence or absence of the compound.

14.2 Structural isomers that produce very similar mass spectra should be identified as individual isomers if they have sufficiently different gas chromatographic retention times. Sufficient gas chromatographic resolution is achieved if the height of the valley between two isomer peaks is less than 50% of the average of the two peak heights. Otherwise, structural isomers are identified as isomeric pairs.

15.1 When an analyte has been identified, quantitation of that analyte is based on the integrated abundance from the EICP of the primary characteristic m/z in Table 4 or 5. Calculate the concentration in the extract using the response factor (RF) determined in Section 7.2.2 and Equation 2. If the concentration of an analyte exceeds the calibration range, dilute the extract by the minimum amount to bring the concentration into the calibration range, and re-analyze the extract. Determine a dilution factor (DF) from the amount of the dilution. For example, if the extract is diluted by a factor of 2, DF = 2.

Calculate the concentration of the analyte in the sample using the concentration in the extract, the extract volume, the sample volume, and the dilution factor, per Equation 3:

15.2 Reporting of results. As noted in section 1.4.1, EPA has promulgated this method at 40 CFR part 136 for use in wastewater compliance monitoring under the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES). The data reporting practices described here are focused on such monitoring needs and may not be relevant to other uses of the method.

15.2.1 Report results for wastewater samples in µg/L without correction for recovery. (Other units may be used if required by in a permit.) Report all QC data with the sample results.

15.2.2 Reporting level. Unless specified otherwise by a regulatory authority or in a discharge permit, results for analytes that meet the identification criteria are reported down to the concentration of the ML established by the laboratory through calibration of the instrument (see section 7.3.2 and the glossary for the derivation of the ML). EPA considers the terms "reporting limit," "quantitation limit," "limit of quantitation," and "minimum level" to be synonymous.

15.2.2.1 Report a result for each analyte in each field sample or QC standard at or above the ML to 3 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in each field sample or QC standard below the ML as "ML" where ML is the concentration of the analyte at the ML, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit. Report a result for each analyte in a blank at or above the MDL to 2 significant figures. Report a result for each analyte found in a blank below the MDL as "MDL," where MDL is the concentration of the analyte at the MDL, or as required by the regulatory/control authority or permit.

15.2.2.2 In addition to reporting results for samples and blanks separately, the concentration of each analyte in a blank associated with the sample may be subtracted from the result for that sample, but only if requested or required by a regulatory authority or in a permit. In this case, both the sample result and the blank results must be reported together.
