
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.

17.6.4 Additionally, if requested, the total concentration of all isomers in an individual level of chlorination (, total TCDD, total TCDF, total Paced, etc.) may be reported by summing the concentrations of all isomers identified in that level of chlorination, including both 2,3,7,8-substituted and non-2,3,7,8-substituted isomers.

18.1 Some samples may contain high levels (>10 ng/L; >1000 ng/kg) of the compounds of interest, interfering compounds, and/or polymeric materials. Some extracts will not concentrate to 10 µL (Section 12.7); others may overload the GC column and/or mass spectrometer.

18.2 Analyze a smaller aliquot of the sample (Section 17.5) when the extract will not concentrate to 10 µL after all cleanup procedures have been exhausted.

18.3 Chlorodiphenyl Ethers-If chromatographic peaks are detected at the retention time of any CDDs/CDFs in any of the m/z channels being monitored for the chlorodiphenyl ethers (Table 8), cleanup procedures must be employed until these interferences are removed. Alumina (Section 13.4) and Florisil (Section 13.8) are recommended for removal of chlorodiphenyl ethers.

18.4 Recovery of Labeled Compounds-In most samples, recoveries of the labeled compounds will be similar to those from reagent water or from the alternate matrix (Section 7.6).

18.4.1 If the recovery of any of the labeled compounds is outside of the normal range (Table 7), a diluted sample shall be analyzed (Section 17.5).

18.4.2 If the recovery of any of the labeled compounds in the diluted sample is outside of normal range, the calibration verification standard (Section 7.13) shall be analyzed and calibration verified (Section 15.3).

18.4.3 If the calibration cannot be verified, a new calibration must be performed and the original sample extract reanalyzed.

18.4.4 If the calibration is verified and the diluted sample does not meet the limits for labeled compound recovery, the method does not apply to the sample being analyzed and the result may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes. In this case, alternate extraction and cleanup procedures in this method must be employed to resolve the interference. If all cleanup procedures in this method have been employed and labeled compound recovery remains outside of the normal range, extraction and/or cleanup procedures that are beyond this scope of this method will be required to analyze these samples.

19.1 The solvents used in this method pose little threat to the environment when managed properly. The solvent evaporation techniques used in this method are amenable to solvent recovery, and it is recommended that the laboratory recover solvents wherever feasible.

19.2 Standards should be prepared in volumes consistent with laboratory use to minimize disposal of standards.

20.1 It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations.

20.2 Samples containing HCl to pH <2 are hazardous and must be neutralized before being poured down a drain or must be handled as hazardous waste.

20.3 The CDDs/CDFs decompose above 800 &#xB0;C. Low-level waste such as absorbent paper, tissues, animal remains, and plastic gloves may be burned in an appropriate incinerator. Gross quantities (milligrams) should be packaged securely and disposed of through commercial or governmental channels that are capable of handling extremely toxic wastes.

20.4 Liquid or soluble waste should be dissolved in methanol or ethanol and irradiated with ultraviolet light with a wavelength shorter than 290 nm for several days. Use F40 BL or equivalent lamps. Analyze liquid wastes, and dispose of the solutions when the CDDs/CDFs can no longer be detected.

20.5 For further information on waste management, consult "The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel" and "Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction," available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

Method performance was validated and performance specifications were developed using data from EPA's international interlaboratory validation study (References 30-31) and the EPA/paper industry Long-Term Variability Study of discharges from the pulp and paper industry (58 FR 66078).
