
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.

17.1.2 BecauseC-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is used as an instrument internal standard (, not added before extraction of the sample), it cannot be used to quantitate the 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD by strict isotope dilution procedures. Therefore, 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is quantitated using the averaged response of the labeled analogs of the other two 2,3,7,8-substituted HxCDD's: 1,2,3,4,7,8-HxCDD and 1,2,3,6,7,8-HxCDD. As a result, the concentration of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD is corrected for the average recovery of the other two HxCDD's.

17.1.3 Any peaks representing non-2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs are quantitated using an average of the response factors from all of the labeled 2,3,7,8-isomers at the same level of chlorination.

17.2 Internal Standard Quantitation and Labeled Compound Recovery.

17.2.1 Compute the concentrations of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, theC-labeled analogs and theC-labeled cleanup standard in the extract using the response factors determined from the initial calibration data (Section 10.6) and the following equation:

17.2.2 Using the concentration in the extract determined above, compute the percent recovery of theC-labeled compounds and theC-labeled cleanup standard using the following equation:

17.3 The concentration of a CDD/CDF in the solid phase of the sample is computed using the concentration of the compound in the extract and the weight of the solids (Section 11.5.1), as follows:

17.4 The concentration of a CDD/CDF in the aqueous phase of the sample is computed using the concentration of the compound in the extract and the volume of water extracted (Section 11.4 or 11.5), as follows:

17.5 If the SICP area at either quantitation m/z for any compound exceeds the calibration range of the system, a smaller sample aliquot is extracted.

17.5.1 For aqueous samples containing 1% solids or less, dilute 100 mL, 10 mL, etc., of sample to 1 L with reagent water and re-prepare, extract, clean up, and analyze per Sections 11 through 14.

17.5.2 For samples containing greater than 1% solids, extract an amount of sample equal to,, etc., of the amount used in Section 11.5.1. Re-prepare, extract, clean up, and analyze per Sections 11 through 14.

17.5.3 If a smaller sample size will not be representative of the entire sample, dilute the sample extract by a factor of 10, adjust the concentration of the instrument internal standard to 100 pg/µL in the extract, and analyze an aliquot of this diluted extract by the internal standard method.

17.6 Results are reported to three significant figures for the CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds found in all standards, blanks, and samples.

17.6.1 Reporting units and levels.

17.6.1.1 Aqueous samples-Report results in pg/L (parts-per-quadrillion).

17.6.1.2 Samples containing greater than 1% solids (soils, sediments, filter cake, compost)-Report results in ng/kg based on the dry weight of the sample. Report the percent solids so that the result may be corrected.

17.6.1.3 Tissues-Report results in ng/kg of wet tissue, not on the basis of the lipid content of the sample. Report the percent lipid content, so that the data user can calculate the concentration on a lipid basis if desired.

17.6.1.4 Reporting level.

17.6.1.4.1 Standards (VER, IPR, OPR) and samples-Report results at or above the minimum level (Table 2). Report results below the minimum level as not detected or as required by the regulatory authority.

17.6.1.4.2 Blanks-Report results above one-third the ML.

17.6.2 Results for CDDs/CDFs in samples that have been diluted are reported at the least dilute level at which the areas at the quantitation m/z's are within the calibration range (Section 17.5).

17.6.3 For CDDs/CDFs having a labeled analog, results are reported at the least dilute level at which the area at the quantitation m/z is within the calibration range (Section 17.5) and the labeled compound recovery is within the normal range for the method (Section 9.3 and Tables 6, 6a, 7, and 7a).
