
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### alpha,gamma

1.2 The analytes that may be qualitatively and quantitatively determined using this method and their CAS Registry numbers are listed in Tables 1 and 2. The method may be extended to determine the analytes listed in Table 3; however, extraction or gas chromatography of some of these analytes may make quantitative determination difficult. For example, benzidine is subject to oxidative losses during extraction and/or solvent concentration. Under the alkaline conditions of the extraction,-BHC,-BHC, endosulfan I and II, and endrin are subject to decomposition. Hexachlorocyclopentadiene is subject to thermal decomposition in the inlet of the gas chromatograph, chemical reaction in acetone solution, and photochemical decomposition. N-nitrosodiphenylamine and other nitrosoamines may decompose in the gas chromatographic inlet. The sample may be extracted at neutral pH if necessary to overcome these or other decomposition problems that could occur at alkaline or acidic pH. EPA also has provided other methods (e.g., Method 607-Nitrosamines) that may be used for determination of some of these analytes. EPA encourages use of Method 625.1 to determine additional compounds amenable to extraction and GC/MS.

1.3 The large number of analytes in Tables 1-3 of this method makes testing difficult if all analytes are determined simultaneously. Therefore, it is necessary to determine and perform quality control (QC) tests for the "analytes of interest" only. Analytes of interest are those required to be determined by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit, or by a client. If a list of analytes is not specified, the analytes in Tables 1 and 2 must be determined, at a minimum, and QC testing must be performed for these analytes. The analytes in Tables 1 and 2, and some of the analytes in Table 3 have been identified as Toxic Pollutants (40 CFR 401.15), expanded to a list of Priority Pollutants (40 CFR part 423, appendix A).
