
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.,

15.2.3 Results from tests performed with an analytical system that is not in control (that does not meet acceptance criteria for any QC test in this method) must be documented and reported (e.g., as a qualifier on results), unless the failure is not required to be reported as determined by the regulatory/control authority. Results associated with a QC failure cannot be used to demonstrate regulatory compliance. QC failures do not relieve a discharger or permittee of reporting timely results. If the holding time would be exceeded for a re-analysis of the sample, the regulatory/control authority should be consulted for disposition.

16.1 The basic version of this method was tested by 15 laboratories using reagent water, drinking water, surface water, and industrial wastewaters spiked at six concentrations over the range 5-1300 µg/L (Reference 2). Single operator precision, overall precision, and method accuracy were found to be directly related to the concentration of the analyte and essentially independent of the sample matrix. Linear equations to describe these relationships are presented in Table 7.

16.2 As noted in section 1.1, this method was validated through an interlaboratory study in the early 1980s. However, the fundamental chemistry principles used in this method remain sound and continue to apply.

16.3 A chromatogram of the combined acid/base/neutral calibration standard is shown in Figure 2.

17.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Many opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operations. EPA has established a preferred hierarchy of environmental management techniques that places pollution prevention as the management option of first choice. Whenever feasible, the laboratory should use pollution prevention techniques to address waste generation. When wastes cannot be reduced at the source, the Agency recommends recycling as the next best option.

17.2 The analytes in this method are used in extremely small amounts and pose little threat to the environment when managed properly. Standards should be prepared in volumes consistent with laboratory use to minimize the disposal of excess volumes of expired standards. This method utilizes significant quantities of methylene chloride. Laboratories are encouraged to recover and recycle this and other solvents during extract concentration.

17.3 For information about pollution prevention that may be applied to laboratories and research institutions, consult Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Governmental Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

18.1 The laboratory is responsible for complying with all Federal, State, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions, and to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. An overview of requirements can be found in Environmental Management Guide for Small Laboratories (EPA 233-B-98-001).

18.2 Samples at pH <2, or pH >12, are hazardous and must be handled and disposed of as hazardous waste, or neutralized and disposed of in accordance with all federal, state, and local regulations. It is the laboratory's responsibility to comply with all federal, state, and local regulations governing waste management, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions. The laboratory using this method has the responsibility to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from fume hoods and bench operations. Compliance is also required with any sewage discharge permits and regulations. For further information on waste management, see "The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel," also available from the American Chemical Society at the address in section 17.3.

18.3 Many analytes in this method decompose above 500 &#xBA;C. Low-level waste such as absorbent paper, tissues, and plastic gloves may be burned in an appropriate incinerator. Gross quantities of neat or highly concentrated solutions of toxic or hazardous chemicals should be packaged securely and disposed of through commercial or governmental channels that are capable of handling these types of wastes.

18.4 For further information on waste management, consult The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel and Less is Better-Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction, available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, 202-872-4477.

These definitions and purposes are specific to this method but have been conformed to common usage to the extent possible.

22.1 Units of weight and measure and their abbreviations.

22.1.1 Symbols.

22.1.2 Abbreviations (in alphabetical order).

22.2 Definitions and acronyms (in alphabetical order).

Analyte-A compound or mixture of compounds (e.g., PCBs) tested for by this method. The analytes are listed in Tables 1-3.

Batch-See Extraction.

Blank-An aliquot of reagent water that is treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, internal standards, and surrogates that are used with samples. The blank is used to determine if analytes or interferences are present in the laboratory environment, the reagents, or the apparatus.

Calibration-The process of determining the relationship between the output or response of a measuring instrument and the value of an input standard. Historically, EPA has referred to a multi-point calibration as the "initial calibration," to differentiate it from a single-point calibration verification.

Calibration standard-A solution prepared from stock solutions and/or a secondary standards and containing the analytes of interest, surrogates, and internal standards. The calibration standard is used to calibrate the response of the GC/MS instrument against analyte concentration.

Calibration verification standard-The mid-point calibration standard used to verify calibration. See sections 7.3 and 13.4.

Descriptor-In SIM, the beginning and ending retention times for the RT window, the m/z's sampled in the RT window, and the dwell time at each m/z.

Extracted ion current profile (EICP)-The line described by the signal at a given m/z.

Extraction Batch-A set of up to 20 field samples (not including QC samples) started through the extraction process on a given 24-hour shift (section 3.1). Each extraction batch must be accompanied by a blank (section 8.5), a laboratory control sample (LCS, section 8.4), and a matrix spike and duplicate (MS/MSD; Section 8.3), resulting in a minimum of five analyses (1 sample, 1 blank, 1 LCS, 1 MS, and 1 MSD) and a maximum of 24 analyses (20 field samples, 1 blank, 1 LCS, 1 MS, and 1 MSD) for the batch. If greater than 20 samples are to be extracted in a 24-hour shift, the samples must be separated into extraction batches of 20 or fewer samples.

Field Duplicates-Two samples collected at the same time and placed under identical conditions, and treated identically throughout field and laboratory procedures. Results of analyses of the field duplicates provide an estimate of the precision associated with sample collection, preservation, and storage, as well as with laboratory procedures.

Field blank-An aliquot of reagent water or other reference matrix that is placed in a sample container in the field, and treated as a sample in all respects, including exposure to sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the field blank is to determine if the field or sample transporting procedures and environments have contaminated the sample.

GC-Gas chromatograph or gas chromatography.

Internal standard-A compound added to an extract or standard solution in a known amount and used as a reference for quantitation of the analytes of interest and surrogates. In this method the internal standards are stable isotopically labeled analogs of selected method analytes (Table 8). Also see Internal standard quantitation.

Internal standard quantitation-A means of determining the concentration of an analyte of interest (Tables 1-3) by reference to a compound not expected to be found in a sample.

DOC-Initial demonstration of capability (section 8.2); four aliquots of reagent water spiked with the analytes of interest and analyzed to establish the ability of the laboratory to generate acceptable precision and recovery. A DOC is performed prior to the first time this method is used and any time the method or instrumentation is modified.

Laboratory Control Sample (LCS; laboratory fortified blank; section 8.4)-An aliquot of reagent water spiked with known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates. The LCS is analyzed exactly like a sample. Its purpose is to assure that the results produced by the laboratory remain within the limits specified in this method for precision and recovery.

Laboratory fortified sample matrix-See Matrix spike.

Laboratory reagent blank-A blank run on laboratory reagents; e.g., methylene chloride (section 11.1.5).

Matrix spike (MS) and matrix spike duplicate (MSD) (laboratory fortified sample matrix and duplicate)-Two aliquots of an environmental sample to which known quantities of the analytes of interest and surrogates are added in the laboratory. The MS/MSD are prepared and analyzed exactly like a field sample. Their purpose is to quantify any additional bias and imprecision caused by the sample matrix. The background concentrations of the analytes in the sample matrix must be determined in a separate aliquot and the measured values in the MS/MSD corrected for background concentrations.

May-This action, activity, or procedural step is neither required nor prohibited.

May not-This action, activity, or procedural step is prohibited.

Method blank-See blank.

Method detection limit (MDL)-A detection limit determined by the procedure at 40 CFR part 136, appendix B. The MDLs determined by EPA in the original version of the method are listed in Tables 1, 2 and 3. As noted in section 1.5, use the MDLs in Tables 1, 2, and 3 in conjunction with current MDL data from the laboratory actually analyzing samples to assess the sensitivity of this procedure relative to project objectives and regulatory requirements (where applicable).

Minimum level (ML)-The term "minimum level" refers to either the sample concentration equivalent to the lowest calibration point in a method or a multiple of the method detection limit (MDL), whichever is higher. Minimum levels may be obtained in several ways: They may be published in a method; they may be based on the lowest acceptable calibration point used by a laboratory; or they may be calculated by multiplying the MDL in a method, or the MDL determined by a laboratory, by a factor of 3. For the purposes of NPDES compliance monitoring, EPA considers the following terms to be synonymous: "quantitation limit," "reporting limit," and "minimum level."

MS-Mass spectrometer or mass spectrometry, or matrix spike (a QC sample type).

MSD-Matrix spike duplicate (a QC sample type).

Must-This action, activity, or procedural step is required.

m/z-The ratio of the mass of an ion (m) detected in the mass spectrometer to the charge (z) of that ion.

Preparation blank-See blank.

Quality control check sample (QCS)-See Laboratory Control Sample.

Reagent water-Water demonstrated to be free from the analytes of interest and potentially interfering substances at the MDLs for the analytes in this method.

Regulatory compliance limit (or regulatory concentration limit)-A limit on the concentration or amount of a pollutant or contaminant specified in a nationwide standard, in a permit, or otherwise established by a regulatory/control authority.

Relative retention time (RRT)-The ratio of the retention time of an analyte to the retention time of its associated internal standard. RRT compensates for small changes in the GC temperature program that can affect the absolute retention times of the analyte and internal standard. RRT is a unitless quantity.

Relative standard deviation (RSD)-The standard deviation times 100 divided by the mean. Also termed "coefficient of variation."

RF-Response factor. See section 7.2.2.

RSD-See relative standard deviation.

Safety Data Sheet (SDS)-Written information on a chemical's toxicity, health hazards, physical properties, fire, and reactivity, including storage, spill, and handling precautions that meet the requirements of OSHA, 29 CFR 1910.1200(g) and appendix D to § 1910.1200. United Nations Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS), third revised edition, United Nations, 2009.

Selected Ion Monitoring (SIM)-An MS technique in which a few m/z's are monitored. When used with gas chromatography, the m/z's monitored are usually changed periodically throughout the chromatographic run, to correlate with the characteristic m/z's of the analytes, surrogates, and internal standards as they elute from the chromatographic column. The technique is often used to increase sensitivity and minimize interferences.

Signal-to-noise ratio (S/N)-The height of the signal as measured from the mean (average) of the noise to the peak maximum divided by the width of the noise.

Should-This action, activity, or procedural step is suggested but not required.

SPE-Solid-phase extraction; an extraction technique in which an analyte is extracted from an aqueous solution by passage over or through a material capable of reversibly adsorbing the analyte. Also termed liquid-solid extraction.

Stock solution-A solution containing an analyte that is prepared using a reference material traceable to EPA, the National Institute of Science and Technology (NIST), or a source that will attest to the purity, authenticity, and concentration of the standard.

Surrogate-A compound unlikely to be found in a sample, and which is spiked into sample in a known amount before extraction or other processing, and is quantitated with the same procedures used to quantify other sample components. The purpose of the surrogate is to monitor method performance with each sample.

1.1 This method is for determination of tetra- through octa-chlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins (CDDs) and dibenzofurans (CDFs) in water, soil, sediment, sludge, tissue, and other sample matrices by high resolution gas chromatography/high resolution mass spectrometry (HRGC/HRMS). The method is for use in EPA's data gathering and monitoring programs associated with the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, and the Safe Drinking Water Act. The method is based on a compilation of EPA, industry, commercial laboratory, and academic methods (References 1-6).

1.2 The seventeen 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs listed in Table 1 may be determined by this method. Specifications are also provided for separate determination of 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzo-p-dioxin (2,3,7,8-TCDD) and 2,3,7,8-tetrachloro-dibenzofuran (2,3,7,8-TCDF).

1.3 The detection limits and quantitation levels in this method are usually dependent on the level of interferences rather than instrumental limitations. The minimum levels (MLs) in Table 2 are the levels at which the CDDs/CDFs can be determined with no interferences present. The Method Detection Limit (MDL) for 2,3,7,8-TCDD has been determined as 4.4 pg/L (parts-per-quadrillion) using this method.

1.4 The GC/MS portions of this method are for use only by analysts experienced with HRGC/HRMS or under the close supervision of such qualified persons. Each laboratory that uses this method must demonstrate the ability to generate acceptable results using the procedure in Section 9.2.

1.5 This method is "performance-based". The analyst is permitted to modify the method to overcome interferences or lower the cost of measurements, provided that all performance criteria in this method are met. The requirements for establishing method equivalency are given in Section 9.1.2.

1.6 Any modification of this method, beyond those expressly permitted, shall be considered a major modification subject to application and approval of alternate test procedures under 40 CFR 136.4 and 136.5.

Flow charts that summarize procedures for sample preparation, extraction, and analysis are given in Figure 1 for aqueous and solid samples, Figure 2 for multi-phase samples, and Figure 3 for tissue samples.

2.1 Extraction.

2.1.1 Aqueous samples (samples containing less than 1% solids)-Stable isotopically labeled analogs of 15 of the 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs are spiked into a 1 L sample, and the sample is extracted by one of three procedures:

2.1.1.1 Samples containing no visible particles are extracted with methylene chloride in a separatory funnel or by the solid-phase extraction technique summarized in Section 2.1.1.3. The extract is concentrated for cleanup.

2.1.1.2 Samples containing visible particles are vacuum filtered through a glass-fiber filter. The filter is extracted in a Soxhlet/Dean-Stark (SDS) extractor (Reference 7), and the filtrate is extracted with methylene chloride in a separatory funnel. The methylene chloride extract is concentrated and combined with the SDS extract prior to cleanup.

2.1.1.3 The sample is vacuum filtered through a glass-fiber filter on top of a solid-phase extraction (SPE) disk. The filter and disk are extracted in an SDS extractor, and the extract is concentrated for cleanup.

2.1.2 Solid, semi-solid, and multi-phase samples (but not tissue)-The labeled compounds are spiked into a sample containing 10 g (dry weight) of solids. Samples containing multiple phases are pressure filtered and any aqueous liquid is discarded. Coarse solids are ground or homogenized. Any non-aqueous liquid from multi-phase samples is combined with the solids and extracted in an SDS extractor. The extract is concentrated for cleanup.

2.1.3 Fish and other tissue-The sample is extracted by one of two procedures:

2.1.3.1 Soxhlet or SDS extraction-A 20 g aliquot of sample is homogenized, and a 10 g aliquot is spiked with the labeled compounds. The sample is mixed with sodium sulfate, allowed to dry for 12-24 hours, and extracted for 18-24 hours using methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) in a Soxhlet extractor. The extract is evaporated to dryness, and the lipid content is determined.

2.1.3.2 HCl digestion-A 20 g aliquot is homogenized, and a 10 g aliquot is placed in a bottle and spiked with the labeled compounds. After equilibration, 200 mL of hydrochloric acid and 200 mL of methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) are added, and the bottle is agitated for 12-24 hours. The extract is evaporated to dryness, and the lipid content is determined.

2.2 After extraction,Cl-labeled 2,3,7,8-TCDD is added to each extract to measure the efficiency of the cleanup process. Sample cleanups may include back-extraction with acid and/or base, and gel permeation, alumina, silica gel, Florisil and activated carbon chromatography. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) can be used for further isolation of the 2,3,7,8-isomers or other specific isomers or congeners. Prior to the cleanup procedures cited above, tissue extracts are cleaned up using an anthropogenic isolation column, a batch silica gel adsorption, or sulfuric acid and base back-extraction, depending on the tissue extraction procedure used.

2.3 After cleanup, the extract is concentrated to near dryness. Immediately prior to injection, internal standards are added to each extract, and an aliquot of the extract is injected into the gas chromatograph. The analytes are separated by the GC and detected by a high-resolution (≥10,000) mass spectrometer. Two exact m/z's are monitored for each analyte.

2.4 An individual CDD/CDF is identified by comparing the GC retention time and ion-abundance ratio of two exact m/z's with the corresponding retention time of an authentic standard and the theoretical or acquired ion-abundance ratio of the two exact m/z's. The non-2,3,7,8 substituted isomers and congeners are identified when retention times and ion-abundance ratios agree within predefined limits. Isomer specificity for 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF is achieved using GC columns that resolve these isomers from the other tetra-isomers.

2.5 Quantitative analysis is performed using selected ion current profile (SICP) areas, in one of three ways:

2.5.1 For the 15 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs with labeled analogs (see Table 1), the GC/MS system is calibrated, and the concentration of each compound is determined using the isotope dilution technique.

2.5.2 For 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, and the labeled compounds, the GC/MS system is calibrated and the concentration of each compound is determined using the internal standard technique.
