
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### alpha,beta,delta,gamma

4.2 The following analytes covered by this method have been tentatively classified as known or suspected human or mammalian carcinogens: Benzo(a)anthracene, benzidine, 3,3&#x2032;-dichlorobenzidine, benzo(a)pyrene,-BHC,-BHC,-BHC,-BHC, Dibenz(a,h)-anthracene, N-nitrosodimethylamine, 4,4&#x2032;-DDT, and PCBs. Other compounds in Table 3 may also be toxic. Primary standards of toxic compounds should be prepared in a chemical fume hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when handling high concentrations of these compounds.

4.3 This method allows the use of hydrogen as a carrier gas in place of helium (section 5.6.1.2). The laboratory should take the necessary precautions in dealing with hydrogen, and should limit hydrogen flow at the source to prevent buildup of an explosive mixture of hydrogen in air.

5.1 Sampling equipment, for discrete or composite sampling.

5.1.1 Grab sample bottle-amber glass bottle large enough to contain the necessary sample volume, fitted with a fluoropolymer-lined screw cap. Foil may be substituted for fluoropolymer if the sample is not corrosive. If amber bottles are not available, protect samples from light. Unless pre-cleaned, the bottle and cap liner must be washed, rinsed with acetone or methylene chloride, and dried before use to minimize contamination.

5.1.2 Automatic sampler (optional)-the sampler must incorporate a pre-cleaned glass sample container. Samples must be kept refrigerated at &#x2264;6 &#xB0;C and protected from light during compositing. If the sampler uses a peristaltic pump, a minimum length of compressible silicone rubber tubing may be used. Before use, however, rinse the compressible tubing with methanol, followed by repeated rinsing with reagent water, to minimize the potential for sample contamination. An integrating flow meter is required to collect flow-proportioned composites.

5.2 Glassware.

5.2.1 Separatory funnel-Size appropriate to hold sample volume and extraction solvent volume, and equipped with fluoropolymer stopcock.

5.2.2 Drying column-Chromatographic column, approximately 400 mm long by 19 mm ID, with coarse frit, or equivalent, sufficient to hold 15 g of anhydrous sodium sulfate.

5.2.3 Concentrator tube, Kuderna-Danish-10 mL, graduated (Kontes 570050-1025 or equivalent). Calibration must be checked at the volumes employed in the test. A ground glass stopper is used to prevent evaporation of extracts.

5.2.4 Evaporative flask, Kuderna-Danish-500 mL (Kontes 57001-0500 or equivalent). Attach to concentrator tube with springs.

5.2.5 Snyder column, Kuderna-Danish-Three-ball macro (Kontes 503000-0121 or equivalent).

5.2.6 Snyder column, Kuderna-Danish-Two-ball micro (Kontes 569001-0219 or equivalent).

5.2.7 Vials-10-15 mL, amber glass, with Teflon-lined screw cap.

5.2.8 Continuous liquid-liquid extractor-Equipped with fluoropolymer or glass connecting joints and stopcocks requiring no lubrication. (Hershberg-Wolf Extractor, Ace Glass Company, Vineland, NJ, P/N 6848-20, or equivalent.)

5.2.9 In addition to the glassware listed above, the laboratory should be equipped with all necessary pipets, volumetric flasks, beakers, and other glassware listed in this method and necessary to perform analyses successfully.

5.3 Boiling chips-Approximately 10/40 mesh, glass, silicon carbide, or equivalent. Heat to 400 &#xB0;C for 30 minutes, or solvent rinse or Soxhlet extract with methylene chloride.

5.4 Water bath-Heated, with concentric ring cover, capable of temperature control (+/-2 &#xB0;C). The bath should be used in a hood.

5.5 Balances.

5.5.1 Analytical, capable of accurately weighing 0.1 mg.

5.5.2 Top loading, capable of accurately weighing 10 mg.

5.6 GC/MS system.

5.6.1 Gas chromatograph (GC)-An analytical system complete with a temperature programmable gas chromatograph and all required accessories, including syringes and analytical columns.

5.6.1.1 Injection port-Can be split, splitless, temperature programmable vaporization split/splitless (PTV), solvent-purge, large-volume, on-column, backflushed, or other. An autosampler is highly recommended because it injects volumes more precisely than volumes injected manually.

5.6.1.2 Carrier gas-Helium or hydrogen. Data in the tables in this method were obtained using helium carrier gas. If hydrogen is used, analytical conditions may need to be adjusted for optimum performance, and calibration and all QC tests must be performed with hydrogen carrier gas. See Section 4.3 for precautions regarding the use of hydrogen as a carrier gas.

5.6.2 GC column-See the footnotes to Tables 4 and 5. Other columns or column systems may be used provided all requirements in this method are met.

5.6.3 Mass spectrometer-Capable of repetitively scanning from 35-450 Daltons (amu) every two seconds or less, utilizing a 70 eV (nominal) electron energy in the electron impact ionization mode, and producing a mass spectrum which meets all the criteria in Table 9A or 9B when 50 ng or less of decafluorotriphenyl phosphine (DFTPP; CAS 5074-71-5; bis(pentafluorophenyl) phenyl phosphine) is injected into the GC.

5.6.4 GC/MS interface-Any GC to MS interface that meets all performance requirements in this method may be used.

5.6.5 Data system-A computer system must be interfaced to the mass spectrometer that allows the continuous acquisition and storage of mass spectra acquired throughout the chromatographic program. The computer must have software that allows searching any GC/MS data file for specific m/z's (masses) and plotting m/z abundances versus time or scan number. This type of plot is defined as an extracted ion current profile (EICP). Software must also be available that allows integrating the abundance at any EICP between specified time or scan number limits.

5.7 Automated gel permeation chromatograph (GPC).

5.7.1 GPC column-150-700 mm long x 21-25 mm ID, packed with 70 g of SX-3 Biobeads; Bio-Rad Labs, or equivalent.

5.7.2 Pump, injection valve, UV detector, and other apparatus necessary to meet the requirements in this method.

5.8 Nitrogen evaporation device-Equipped with a water bath than can be maintained at 30-45 &#xB0;C; N-Evap, Organomation Associates, or equivalent.

5.9 Muffle furnace or kiln-Capable of baking glassware or sodium sulfate in the range of 400-450 &#xB0;C.

6.1 Reagent water-Reagent water is defined as water in which the analytes of interest and interfering compounds are not detected at the MDLs of the analytes of interest.

6.2 Sodium hydroxide solution (10 N)-Dissolve 40 g of NaOH (ACS) in reagent water and dilute to 100 mL.

6.3 Sodium thiosulfate-(ACS) granular.

6.4 Sulfuric acid (1+1)-Slowly add 50 mL of HSO(ACS, sp. gr. 1.84) to 50 mL of reagent water.

6.5 Acetone, methanol, methylene chloride, 2-propanol-High purity pesticide quality, or equivalent, demonstrated to be free of the analytes of interest and interferences (Section 3). Purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required.

6.6 Sodium sulfate-(ACS) granular, anhydrous, rinsed or Soxhlet extracted with methylene chloride (20 mL/g), baked in a shallow tray at 450 &#xB0;C for one hour minimum, cooled in a desiccator, and stored in a pre-cleaned glass bottle with screw cap that prevents moisture from entering.

6.7 Stock standard solutions (1.00 µg/µL)-Stock standard solutions may be prepared from pure materials, or purchased as certified solutions. Traceability must be to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) or other national or international standard, when available. Stock solution concentrations alternate to those below may be used. Because of the toxicity of some of the compounds, primary dilutions should be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator should be worn when high concentrations of neat materials are handled. The following procedure may be used to prepare standards from neat materials.

6.7.1 Prepare stock standard solutions by accurately weighing about 0.0100 g of pure material. Dissolve the material in pesticide quality methanol or other suitable solvent and dilute to volume in a 10-mL volumetric flask. Larger volumes may be used at the convenience of the laboratory. When compound purity is assayed to be 96% or greater, the weight may be used without correction to calculate the concentration of the stock standard. Commercially prepared stock standards may be used at any concentration if they are certified by the manufacturer or by an independent source.

6.7.2 Unless stated otherwise in this method, store non-aqueous standards in fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap, or heat-sealed, glass containers, in the dark at -20 to -10 &#xB0;C. Store aqueous standards; e.g., the aqueous LCS (section 8.4.1), in the dark at &#x2264; 6 &#xB0;C, but do not freeze. Standards prepared by the laboratory may be stored for up to one year, except when comparison with QC check standards indicates that a standard has degraded or become more concentrated due to evaporation, or unless the laboratory has data on file to prove stability for a longer period. Commercially prepared standards may be stored until the expiration date provided by the vendor, except when comparison with QC check standards indicates that a standard has degraded or become more concentrated due to evaporation, or unless the laboratory has data from the vendor on file to prove stability for a longer period.

6.8 Surrogate standard spiking solution.

6.8.1 Select a minimum of three surrogate compounds from Table 8 that most closely match the recovery of the analytes of interest. For example, if all analytes tested are considered acids, use surrogates that have similar chemical attributes. Other compounds may be used as surrogates so long as they do not interfere in the analysis. If only one or two analytes are determined, one or two surrogates may be used.

6.8.2 Prepare a solution containing each selected surrogate such that the concentration in the sample would match the concentration in the mid-point calibration standard. For example, if the midpoint of the calibration is 100 µg/L, prepare the spiking solution at a concentration of 100 µg/mL in methanol. Addition of 1.00 mL of this solution to 1000 mL of sample will produce a concentration of 100 µg/L of the surrogate. Alternate volumes and concentrations appropriate to the response of the GC/MS instrument or for selective ion monitoring (SIM) may be used, if desired. Store per section 6.7.2.

6.9 Internal standard spiking solution.

6.9.1 Select three or more internal standards similar in chromatographic behavior to the analytes of interest. Internal standards are listed in Table 8. Suggested internal standards are: 1,4-dichlorobenzene-d; naphthalene-d; acenaphthene-d; phenanthrene-d; chrysene-d; and perylene-d. The laboratory must demonstrate that measurement of the internal standards is not affected by method or matrix interferences (see also section 7.3.4).

6.9.2 Prepare the internal standards at a concentration of 10 mg/mL in methylene chloride or other suitable solvent. When 10 µL of this solution is spiked into a 1-mL extract, the concentration of the internal standards will be 100 µg/mL. A lower concentration appropriate to the response of the GC/MS instrument or for SIM may be used, if desired. Store per section 6.7.3.

6.9.3 To assure accurate analyte identification, particularly when SIM is used, it may be advantageous to include more internal standards than those suggested in section 6.9.1. An analyte will be located most accurately if its retention time relative to an internal standard is in the range of 0.8 to 1.2.

6.10 DFTPP standard-Prepare a solution of DFTPP in methanol or other suitable solvent such that 50 ng or less will be injected (see section 13.2). An alternative concentration may be used to compensate for specific injection volumes or to assure that the operating range of the instrument is not exceeded, so long as the total injected is 50 ng or less. Include benzidine and pentachlorophenol in this solution such that &#x2264;100 ng of benzidine and &#x2264;50 ng of pentachlorophenol will be injected.

6.11 Quality control check sample concentrate-See section 8.2.1.

6.12 GPC calibration solution.

6.12.1 Prepare a methylene chloride solution to contain corn oil, bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (BEHP), perylene, and sulfur at the concentrations in section 6.12.2, or at concentrations appropriate to the response of the detector.

6.12.2 Weigh 8 mg sulfur and 2.5 g corn oil into a 100-mL volumetric flask and warm to dissolve the sulfur. Separately weigh 100 mg BEHP, 20 mg pentachlorophenol, and 2 mg perylene and add to flask. Bring to volume with methylene chloride and mix thoroughly.

6.12.3 Store the solution in an amber glass bottle with a fluoropolymer-lined screw cap at 0-6 &#xB0;C. Protect from light. Refrigeration may cause the corn oil to precipitate. Before use, allow the solution to stand at room temperature until the corn oil dissolves, or warm slightly to aid in dissolution. Replace the solution every year, or more frequently if the response of a component changes.

6.13 Sulfur removal-Copper foil or powder (bright, non-oxidized), or tetrabutylammonium sulfite (TBA sulfite).

6.13.1 Copper foil, or powder-Fisher, Alfa Aesar 42455-18, 625 mesh, or equivalent. Cut copper foil into approximately 1-cm squares. Copper must be activated before it may be used, as described below:

6.13.1.1 Place the quantity of copper needed for sulfur removal (section 11.2.1.3) in a ground-glass-stoppered Erlenmeyer flask or bottle. Cover the foil or powder with methanol.

6.13.1.2 Add HCl dropwise (0.5-1.0 mL) while swirling, until the copper brightens.

6.13.1.3 Pour off the methanol/HCl and rinse 3 times with reagent water to remove all traces of acid, then 3 times with acetone, then 3 times with hexane.

6.13.1.4 For copper foil, cover with hexane after the final rinse. Store in a stoppered flask under nitrogen until used. For the powder, dry on a rotary evaporator or under a stream of nitrogen. Store in a stoppered flask under nitrogen until used. Inspect the copper foil or powder before each use. It must have a bright, non-oxidized appearance to be effective. Copper foil or powder that has oxidized may be reactivated using the procedure described above.

6.13.2 Tetrabutylammonium sodium sulfite (TBA sodium sulfite).

6.13.2.1 Tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate, [CH(CH)]NHSO.

6.13.2.2 Sodium sulfite, NaSO.

6.13.2.3 Dissolve approximately 3 g tetrabutylammonium hydrogen sulfate in 100 mL of reagent water in an amber bottle with fluoropolymer-lined screw cap. Extract with three 20-mL portions of hexane and discard the hexane extracts.

6.13.2.4 Add 25 g sodium sulfite to produce a saturated solution. Store at room temperature. Replace after 1 month.

6.14 DDT and endrin decomposition (breakdown) solution-Prepare a solution containing endrin at a concentration of 1 µg/mL and 4,4&#x2032;-DDT at a concentration of 2 µg/mL, in isooctane or hexane. A 1-µL injection of this standard will contain 1 nanogram (ng) of endrin and 2 ng of DDT. The concentration of the solution may be adjusted by the laboratory to accommodate other injection volumes such that the same masses of the two analytes are introduced into the instrument.

7.1 Establish operating conditions equivalent to those in the footnote to Table 4 or 5 for the base/neutral or acid fraction, respectively. If a combined base/neutral/acid fraction will be analyzed, use the conditions in the footnote to Table 4. Alternative temperature program and flow rate conditions may be used. It is necessary to calibrate the GC/MS for the analytes of interest (Section 1.3) only.

7.2 Internal standard calibration.

7.2.1 Prepare calibration standards for the analytes of interest and surrogates at a minimum of five concentration levels by adding appropriate volumes of one or more stock standards to volumetric flasks. One of the calibration standards should be at a concentration at or below the ML specified in Table 1, 2, or 3, or as specified by a regulatory/control authority or in a permit. The ML value may be rounded to a whole number that is more convenient for preparing the standard, but must not exceed the ML in Table 1, 2, or 3 for those analytes which list ML values. Alternatively, the laboratory may establish a laboratory ML for each analyte based on the concentration in a nominal whole-volume sample that is equivalent to the concentration of the lowest calibration standard in a series of standards produced in the laboratory or obtained from a commercial vendor. The laboratory's ML must not exceed the ML in Table 1, 2, or 3, and the resulting calibration must meet the acceptance criteria in Section 7.2.3, based on the RSD, RSE, or R. The concentrations of the other calibration standards should correspond to the expected range of concentrations found in real samples or should define the working range of the GC/MS system for full-scan and/or SIM operation, as appropriate. A minimum of six concentration levels is required for a second order, non-linear (e.g., quadratic; ax+ bx + c = 0) calibration (section 7.2.3). Calibrations higher than second order are not allowed. To each calibration standard or standard mixture, add a known constant volume of the internal standard solution (section 6.9), and dilute to volume with methylene chloride.

7.2.1.1 Prior to analysis of the calibration standards, inject the DFTPP standard (Section 6.10) and adjust the scan rate of the mass spectrometer to produce a minimum of 5 mass spectra across the DFTPP GC peak. Adjust instrument conditions until the DFTPP criteria in Table 9A or 9B are met. Calculate peak tailing factors for benzidine and pentachlorophenol. Calculation of the tailing factor is illustrated in Figure 1. The tailing factor for benzidine and pentachlorophenol must be <2; otherwise, adjust instrument conditions and either replace the column or break off a short section of the front end of the column, and repeat the test. Once the scan conditions are established, they must be used for analyses of all standards, blanks, and samples.

7.2.1.2 Analyze the mid-point combined base/neutral and acid calibration standard and enter or review the retention time, relative retention time, mass spectrum, and quantitation m/z in the data system for each analyte of interest, surrogate, and internal standard. If additional analytes (Table 3) are to be quantified, include these analytes in the standard. The mass spectrum for each analyte must be comprised of a minimum of 2 m/z's (Tables 4 and 5); 3 to 5 m/z's assure more reliable analyte identification. Suggested quantitation m/z's are shown in Tables 4 and 5 as the primary m/z. If an interference occurs at the primary m/z, use one of the secondary m/z's or an alternate m/z. A single m/z only is required for quantitation.

7.2.1.3 For SIM operation, determine the analytes in each descriptor, the quantitation m/z for each analyte (the quantitation m/z can be the same as for full-scan operation; section 7.2.1.2), the dwell time on each m/z for each analyte, and the beginning and ending retention time for each descriptor. Analyze the verification standard in scan mode to verify m/z's and establish retention times for the analytes. There must be a minimum of two m/z's for each analyte to assure analyte identification. To maintain sensitivity, the number of m/z's in a descriptor should be limited. For example, for a descriptor with 10 m/z's and a chromatographic peak width of 5 sec, a dwell time of 100 ms at each m/z would result in a scan time of 1 second and provide 5 scans across the GC peak. The quantitation m/z will usually be the most intense peak in the mass spectrum. The quantitation m/z and dwell time may be optimized for each analyte. The acquisition table used for SIM must take into account the mass defect (usually less than 0.2 Dalton) that can occur at each m/z monitored. Refer to the footnotes to Table 4 or 5 for establishing operating conditions and to section 7.2.1.1 for establishing scan conditions.

7.2.1.4 For combined scan and SIM operation, set up the scan segments and descriptors to meet requirements in sections 7.2.1.1-7.2.1.3. Analyze unfamiliar samples in the scan mode to assure that the analytes of interest are determined.

7.2.2 Analyze each calibration standard according to section 12 and tabulate the area at the quantitation m/z against concentration for each analyte of interest, surrogate, and internal standard. If an interference is encountered, use a secondary m/z (Table 4 or 5) for quantitation. Calculate a response factor (RF) for each analyte of interest at each concentration using Equation 1.

7.2. Calculate the mean (average) and relative standard deviation (RSD) of the responses factors. If the RSD is less than 35%, the RF can be assumed to be invariant and the average RF can be used for calculations. Alternatively, the results can be used to fit a linear or quadratic regression of response ratios, As/Ais, vs. concentration ratios Cs/Cis. If used, the regression must be weighted inversely proportional to concentration. The coefficient of determination (R; Reference 10) of the weighted regression must be greater than 0.920 (this value roughly corresponds to the RSD limit of 35%). Alternatively, the relative standard error (Reference 11) may be used as an acceptance criterion. As with the RSD, the RSE must be less than 35%. If an RSE less than 35% cannot be achieved for a quadratic regression, system performance is unacceptable and the system must be adjusted and re-calibrated.

7.3 Calibration verification-The RF or calibration curve must be verified immediately after calibration and at the beginning of each 12-hour shift, by analysis of a standard at or near the concentration of the mid-point calibration standard (section 7.2.1). The standard(s) must be obtained from a second manufacturer or a manufacturer's batch prepared independently from the batch used for calibration. Traceability must be to a national standard, when available. Include the surrogates (section 6.8) in this solution. It is necessary to verify calibration for the analytes of interest (section 1.3) only.

7.3.1 Analyze the calibration verification standard(s) beginning in section 12. Calculate the percent recovery of each analyte. Compare the recoveries for the analytes of interest against the acceptance criteria for recovery (Q) in Table 6, and the recoveries for the surrogates against the acceptance criteria in Table 8. If recovery of the analytes of interest and surrogates meet acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of samples may continue. If any individual recovery is outside its limit, system performance is unacceptable for that analyte.

7.3.2 When one or more analytes fail acceptance criteria, analyze a second aliquot of the calibration verification standard and compare ONLY those analytes that failed the first test (section 7.3.1) with their respective acceptance criteria. If these analytes now pass, system performance is acceptable and analysis of samples may continue. A repeat failure of any analyte that failed the first test, however, will confirm a general problem with the measurement system. If this occurs, repair the system (section 7.2.1.1) and repeat the test (section 7.3.1), or prepare a fresh calibration standard and repeat the test. If calibration cannot be verified after maintenance or injection of the fresh calibration standard, re-calibrate the instrument.

7.3.3 Many of the analytes in Table 3 do not have QC acceptance criteria in Table 6, and some of the surrogates in Table 8 do not have acceptance criteria. If calibration is to be verified and other QC tests are to be performed for these analytes, acceptance criteria must be developed and applied. EPA has provided guidance for development of QC acceptance criteria (References 12 and 13). Alternatively, analytes that do not have acceptance criteria in Table 6 or Table 8 may be based on laboratory control charts, or 60 to 140% may be used.

7.3.4 Internal standard responses-Verify that detector sensitivity has not changed by comparing the response of each internal standard in the calibration verification standard (section 7.3) to the response of the respective internal standard in the midpoint calibration standard (section 7.2.1). The peak areas or heights of the internal standards in the calibration verification standard must be within 50% to 200% (1/2 to 2x) of their respective peak areas or heights in the mid-point calibration standard. If not, repeat the calibration verification test using a fresh calibration verification standard (7.3), or perform and document system repair. Subsequent to repair, repeat the calibration verification test (section 7.3.1). If the responses are still not within 50% to 200%, re-calibrate the instrument (section 7.2.2) and repeat the calibration verification test.

8.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability and ongoing analysis of spiked samples and blanks to evaluate and document data quality (40 CFR 136.7). The laboratory must maintain records to document the quality of data generated. Results of ongoing performance tests are compared with established QC acceptance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet performance requirements of this method. When results of spiked samples do not meet the QC acceptance criteria in this method, a quality control check sample (laboratory control sample; LCS) must be analyzed to confirm that the measurements were performed in an in-control mode of operation. A laboratory may develop its own performance criteria (as QC acceptance criteria), provided such criteria are as or more restrictive than the criteria in this method.

8.1.1 The laboratory must make an initial demonstration of capability (DOC) to generate acceptable precision and recovery with this method. This demonstration is detailed in Section 8.2.

8.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in analytical technology, and to overcome matrix interferences, the laboratory is permitted certain options (section 1.6 and 40 CFR 136.6(b)) to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements. These options may include alternate extraction, concentration, and cleanup procedures (e.g., solid-phase extraction; rotary-evaporator concentration; column chromatography cleanup), changes in column and type of mass spectrometer (40 CFR 136.6(b)(4)(xvi)). Alternate determinative techniques, such as substitution of spectroscopic or immunoassay techniques, and changes that degrade method performance, are not allowed. If an analytical technique other than GC/MS is used, that technique must have a specificity equal to or greater than the specificity of GC/MS for the analytes of interest. The laboratory is also encouraged to participate in inter-comparison and performance evaluation studies (see section 8.10).

8.1.2.1 Each time a modification is made to this method, the laboratory is required to repeat the procedure in section 8.2. If the detection limit of the method will be affected by the change, the laboratory must demonstrate that the MDLs (40 CFR part 136, appendix B) are lower than one-third the regulatory compliance limit or the MDLs in this method, whichever are greater. If calibration will be affected by the change, the instrument must be recalibrated per section 7. Once the modification is demonstrated to produce results equivalent or superior to results produced by this method, that modification may be used routinely thereafter, so long as the other requirements in this method are met (e.g., matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate recovery and relative percent difference).

8.1.2.1.1 If SPE, or another allowed method modification, is to be applied to a specific discharge, the laboratory must prepare and analyze matrix spike/matrix spike duplicate (MS/MSD) samples (section 8.3) and LCS samples (section 8.4). The laboratory must include surrogates (section 8.7) in each of the samples. The MS/MSD and LCS samples must be fortified with the analytes of interest (Section 1.3). If the modification is for nationwide use, MS/MSD samples must be prepared from a minimum of nine different discharges (See section 8.1.2.1.2), and all QC acceptance criteria in this method must be met. This evaluation only needs to be performed once other than for the routine QC required by this method (for example it could be performed by the vendor of the SPE materials) but any laboratory using that specific material must have the results of the study available. This includes a full data package with the raw data that will allow an independent reviewer to verify each determination and calculation performed by the laboratory (see section 8.1.2.2.5, items (a)-(q)).

8.1.2.1.2 Sample matrices on which MS/MSD tests must be performed for nationwide use of an allowed modification:

(a) Effluent from a POTW.

(b) ASTM D5905 Standard Specification for Substitute Wastewater.

(c) Sewage sludge, if sewage sludge will be in the permit.

(d) ASTM D1141 Standard Specification for Substitute Ocean Water, if ocean water will be in the permit.
