
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### i.e.

2.5.3 For non-2,3,7,8-substituted isomers and for all isomers at a given level of chlorination (, total TCDD), concentrations are determined using response factors from calibration of the CDDs/CDFs at the same level of chlorination.

2.6 The quality of the analysis is assured through reproducible calibration and testing of the extraction, cleanup, and GC/MS systems.

Definitions are given in the glossary at the end of this method.

4.1 Solvents, reagents, glassware, and other sample processing hardware may yield artifacts and/or elevated baselines causing misinterpretation of chromatograms (References 8-9). Specific selection of reagents and purification of solvents by distillation in all-glass systems may be required. Where possible, reagents are cleaned by extraction or solvent rinse.

4.2 Proper cleaning of glassware is extremely important, because glassware may not only contaminate the samples but may also remove the analytes of interest by adsorption on the glass surface.

4.2.1 Glassware should be rinsed with solvent and washed with a detergent solution as soon after use as is practical. Sonication of glassware containing a detergent solution for approximately 30 seconds may aid in cleaning. Glassware with removable parts, particularly separatory funnels with fluoropolymer stopcocks, must be disassembled prior to detergent washing.

4.2.2 After detergent washing, glassware should be rinsed immediately, first with methanol, then with hot tap water. The tap water rinse is followed by another methanol rinse, then acetone, and then methylene chloride.

4.2.3 Do not bake reusable glassware in an oven as a routine part of cleaning. Baking may be warranted after particularly dirty samples are encountered but should be minimized, as repeated baking of glassware may cause active sites on the glass surface that will irreversibly adsorb CDDs/CDFs.

4.2.4 Immediately prior to use, the Soxhlet apparatus should be pre-extracted with toluene for approximately three hours (see Sections 12.3.1 through 12.3.3). Separatory funnels should be shaken with methylene chloride/toluene (80/20 mixture) for two minutes, drained, and then shaken with pure methylene chloride for two minutes.

4.3 All materials used in the analysis shall be demonstrated to be free from interferences by running reference matrix method blanks initially and with each sample batch (samples started through the extraction process on a given 12-hour shift, to a maximum of 20 samples).

4.3.1 The reference matrix must simulate, as closely as possible, the sample matrix under test. Ideally, the reference matrix should not contain the CDDs/CDFs in detectable amounts, but should contain potential interferents in the concentrations expected to be found in the samples to be analyzed. For example, a reference sample of human adipose tissue containing pentachloronaphthalene can be used to exercise the cleanup systems when samples containing pentachloronaphthalene are expected.

4.3.2 When a reference matrix that simulates the sample matrix under test is not available, reagent water (Section 7.6.1) can be used to simulate water samples; playground sand (Section 7.6.2) or white quartz sand (Section 7.3.2) can be used to simulate soils; filter paper (Section 7.6.3) can be used to simulate papers and similar materials; and corn oil (Section 7.6.4) can be used to simulate tissues.

4.4 Interferences coextracted from samples will vary considerably from source to source, depending on the diversity of the site being sampled. Interfering compounds may be present at concentrations several orders of magnitude higher than the CDDs/CDFs. The most frequently encountered interferences are chlorinated biphenyls, methoxy biphenyls, hydroxydiphenyl ethers, benzylphenyl ethers, polynuclear aromatics, and pesticides. Because very low levels of CDDs/CDFs are measured by this method, the elimination of interferences is essential. The cleanup steps given in Section 13 can be used to reduce or eliminate these interferences and thereby permit reliable determination of the CDDs/CDFs at the levels shown in Table 2.

4.5 Each piece of reusable glassware should be numbered to associate that glassware with the processing of a particular sample. This will assist the laboratory in tracking possible sources of contamination for individual samples, identifying glassware associated with highly contaminated samples that may require extra cleaning, and determining when glassware should be discarded.

4.6 Cleanup of tissue-The natural lipid content of tissue can interfere in the analysis of tissue samples for the CDDs/CDFs. The lipid contents of different species and portions of tissue can vary widely. Lipids are soluble to varying degrees in various organic solvents and may be present in sufficient quantity to overwhelm the column chromatographic cleanup procedures used for cleanup of sample extracts. Lipids must be removed by the lipid removal procedures in Section 13.7, followed by alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8), and carbon (Section 13.5) as minimum additional cleanup steps. If chlorodiphenyl ethers are detected, as indicated by the presence of peaks at the exact m/z's monitored for these interferents, alumina and/or Florisil cleanup must be employed to eliminate these interferences.

5.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each compound or reagent used in this method has not been precisely determined; however, each chemical compound should be treated as a potential health hazard. Exposure to these compounds should be reduced to the lowest possible level.

5.1.1 The 2,3,7,8-TCDD isomer has been found to be acnegenic, carcinogenic, and teratogenic in laboratory animal studies. It is soluble in water to approximately 200 ppt and in organic solvents to 0.14%. On the basis of the available toxicological and physical properties of 2,3,7,8-TCDD, all of the CDDs/CDFs should be handled only by highly trained personnel thoroughly familiar with handling and cautionary procedures and the associated risks.

5.1.2 It is recommended that the laboratory purchase dilute standard solutions of the analytes in this method. However, if primary solutions are prepared, they shall be prepared in a hood, and a NIOSH/MESA approved toxic gas respirator shall be worn when high concentrations are handled.

5.2 The laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method. A reference file of material safety data sheets (MSDSs) should also be made available to all personnel involved in these analyses. It is also suggested that the laboratory perform personal hygiene monitoring of each analyst who uses this method and that the results of this monitoring be made available to the analyst. Additional information on laboratory safety can be found in References 10-13. The references and bibliography at the end of Reference 13 are particularly comprehensive in dealing with the general subject of laboratory safety.

5.3 The CDDs/CDFs and samples suspected to contain these compounds are handled using essentially the same techniques employed in handling radioactive or infectious materials. Well-ventilated, controlled access laboratories are required. Assistance in evaluating the health hazards of particular laboratory conditions may be obtained from certain consulting laboratories and from State Departments of Health or Labor, many of which have an industrial health service. The CDDs/CDFs are extremely toxic to laboratory animals. Each laboratory must develop a strict safety program for handling these compounds. The practices in References 2 and 14 are highly recommended.

5.3.1 Facility-When finely divided samples (dusts, soils, dry chemicals) are handled, all operations (including removal of samples from sample containers, weighing, transferring, and mixing) should be performed in a glove box demonstrated to be leak tight or in a fume hood demonstrated to have adequate air flow. Gross losses to the laboratory ventilation system must not be allowed. Handling of the dilute solutions normally used in analytical and animal work presents no inhalation hazards except in the case of an accident.

5.3.2 Protective equipment-Disposable plastic gloves, apron or lab coat, safety glasses or mask, and a glove box or fume hood adequate for radioactive work should be used. During analytical operations that may give rise to aerosols or dusts, personnel should wear respirators equipped with activated carbon filters. Eye protection equipment (preferably full face shields) must be worn while working with exposed samples or pure analytical standards. Latex gloves are commonly used to reduce exposure of the hands. When handling samples suspected or known to contain high concentrations of the CDDs/CDFs, an additional set of gloves can also be worn beneath the latex gloves.

5.3.3 Training-Workers must be trained in the proper method of removing contaminated gloves and clothing without contacting the exterior surfaces.

5.3.4 Personal hygiene-Hands and forearms should be washed thoroughly after each manipulation and before breaks (coffee, lunch, and shift).

5.3.5 Confinement-Isolated work areas posted with signs, segregated glassware and tools, and plastic absorbent paper on bench tops will aid in confining contamination.

5.3.6 Effluent vapors-The effluents of sample splitters from the gas chromatograph (GC) and from roughing pumps on the mass spectrometer (MS) should pass through either a column of activated charcoal or be bubbled through a trap containing oil or high-boiling alcohols to condense CDD/CDF vapors.

5.3.7 Waste Handling-Good technique includes minimizing contaminated waste. Plastic bag liners should be used in waste cans. Janitors and other personnel must be trained in the safe handling of waste.

5.3.8 Decontamination

5.3.8.1 Decontamination of personnel-Use any mild soap with plenty of scrubbing action.

5.3.8.2 Glassware, tools, and surfaces-Chlorothene NU Solvent is the least toxic solvent shown to be effective. Satisfactory cleaning may be accomplished by rinsing with Chlorothene, then washing with any detergent and water. If glassware is first rinsed with solvent, then the dish water may be disposed of in the sewer. Given the cost of disposal, it is prudent to minimize solvent wastes.

5.3.9 Laundry-Clothing known to be contaminated should be collected in plastic bags. Persons who convey the bags and launder the clothing should be advised of the hazard and trained in proper handling. The clothing may be put into a washer without contact if the launderer knows of the potential problem. The washer should be run through a cycle before being used again for other clothing.

5.3.10 Wipe tests-A useful method of determining cleanliness of work surfaces and tools is to wipe the surface with a piece of filter paper. Extraction and analysis by GC with an electron capture detector (ECD) can achieve a limit of detection of 0.1 µg per wipe; analysis using this method can achieve an even lower detection limit. Less than 0.1 µg per wipe indicates acceptable cleanliness; anything higher warrants further cleaning. More than 10 µg on a wipe constitutes an acute hazard and requires prompt cleaning before further use of the equipment or work space, and indicates that unacceptable work practices have been employed.

5.3.11 Table or wrist-action shaker-The use of a table or wrist-action shaker for extraction of tissues presents the possibility of breakage of the extraction bottle and spillage of acid and flammable organic solvent. A secondary containment system around the shaker is suggested to prevent the spread of acid and solvents in the event of such a breakage. The speed and intensity of shaking action should also be adjusted to minimize the possibility of breakage.

7.1 pH Adjustment and Back-Extraction.

7.1.1 Potassium hydroxide-Dissolve 20 g reagent grade KOH in 100 mL reagent water.

7.1.2 Sulfuric acid-Reagent grade (specific gravity 1.84).

7.1.3 Hydrochloric acid-Reagent grade, 6N.

7.1.4 Sodium chloride-Reagent grade, prepare at 5% (w/v) solution in reagent water.

7.2 Solution Drying and Evaporation.

7.2.1 Solution drying-Sodium sulfate, reagent grade, granular, anhydrous (Baker 3375, or equivalent), rinsed with methylene chloride (20 mL/g), baked at 400 &#xB0;C for one hour minimum, cooled in a dessicator, and stored in a pre-cleaned glass bottle with screw-cap that prevents moisture from entering. If, after heating, the sodium sulfate develops a noticeable grayish cast (due to the presence of carbon in the crystal matrix), that batch of reagent is not suitable for use and should be discarded. Extraction with methylene chloride (as opposed to simple rinsing) and baking at a lower temperature may produce sodium sulfate that is suitable for use.

7.2.2 Tissue drying-Sodium sulfate, reagent grade, powdered, treated and stored as above.

7.2.3 Prepurified nitrogen.

7.3 Extraction.

7.3.1 Solvents-Acetone, toluene, cyclohexane, hexane, methanol, methylene chloride, and nonane; distilled in glass, pesticide quality, lot-certified to be free of interferences.

7.3.2 White quartz sand, 60/70 mesh-For Soxhlet/Dean-Stark extraction (Aldrich Chemical, Cat. No. 27-437-9, or equivalent). Bake at 450 &#xB0;C for four hours minimum.

7.4 GPC Calibration Solution-Prepare a solution containing 300 mg/mL corn oil, 15 mg/mL bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate, 1.4 mg/mL pentachlorophenol, 0.1 mg/mL perylene, and 0.5 mg/mL sulfur.

7.5 Adsorbents for Sample Cleanup.

7.5.1 Silica gel.

7.5.1.1 Activated silica gel-100-200 mesh, Supelco 1-3651 (or equivalent), rinsed with methylene chloride, baked at 180 &#xB0;C for a minimum of one hour, cooled in a dessicator, and stored in a precleaned glass bottle with screw-cap that prevents moisture from entering.

7.5.1.2 Acid silica gel (30% w/w)-Thoroughly mix 44.0 g of concentrated sulfuric acid with 100.0 g of activated silica gel in a clean container. Break up aggregates with a stirring rod until a uniform mixture is obtained. Store in a bottle with a fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap.

7.5.1.3 Basic silica gel-Thoroughly mix 30 g of 1N sodium hydroxide with 100 g of activated silica gel in a clean container. Break up aggregates with a stirring rod until a uniform mixture is obtained. Store in a bottle with a fluoropolymer-lined screw-cap.

7.5.1.4 Potassium silicate.

7.5.1.4.1 Dissolve 56 g of high purity potassium hydroxide (Aldrich, or equivalent) in 300 mL of methanol in a 750-1000 mL flat-bottom flask.

7.5.1.4.2 Add 100 g of silica gel and a stirring bar, and stir on a hot plate at 60-70 &#xB0;C for one to two hours.

7.5.1.4.3 Decant the liquid and rinse the potassium silicate twice with 100 mL portions of methanol, followed by a single rinse with 100 mL of methylene chloride.

7.5.1.4.4 Spread the potassium silicate on solvent-rinsed aluminum foil and dry for two to four hours in a hood.

7.5.1.4.5 Activate overnight at 200-250 &#xB0;C.

7.5.2 Alumina-Either one of two types of alumina, acid or basic, may be used in the cleanup of sample extracts, provided that the laboratory can meet the performance specifications for the recovery of labeled compounds described in Section 9.3. The same type of alumina must be used for all samples, including those used to demonstrate initial precision and recovery (Section 9.2) and ongoing precision and recovery (Section 15.5).

7.5.2.1 Acid alumina-Supelco 19996-6C (or equivalent). Activate by heating to 130 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 12 hours.

7.5.2.2 Basic alumina-Supelco 19944-6C (or equivalent). Activate by heating to 600 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 24 hours. Alternatively, activate by heating in a tube furnace at 650-700 &#xB0;C under an air flow rate of approximately 400 cc/minute. Do not heat over 700 &#xB0;C, as this can lead to reduced capacity for retaining the analytes. Store at 130 &#xB0;C in a covered flask. Use within five days of baking.

7.5.3 Carbon.

7.5.3.1 Carbopak C-(Supelco 1-0258, or equivalent).

7.5.3.2 Celite 545-(Supelco 2-0199, or equivalent).

7.5.3.3 Thoroughly mix 9.0 g Carbopak C and 41.0 g Celite 545 to produce an 18% w/w mixture. Activate the mixture at 130 &#xB0;C for a minimum of six hours. Store in a dessicator.

7.5.4 Anthropogenic isolation column-Pack the column in Section 6.7.4.3 from bottom to top with the following:

7.5.4.1 2 g silica gel (Section 7.5.1.1).

7.5.4.2 2 g potassium silicate (Section 7.5.1.4).

7.5.4.3 2 g granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1).

7.5.4.4 10 g acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2).

7.5.4.5 2 g granular anhydrous sodium sulfate.

7.5.5 Florisil column.

7.5.5.1 Florisil-60-100 mesh, Floridin Corp (or equivalent). Soxhlet extract in 500 g portions for 24 hours.

7.5.5.2 Insert a glass wool plug into the tapered end of a graduated serological pipet (Section 6.7.3.2). Pack with 1.5 g (approx 2 mL) of Florisil topped with approx 1 mL of sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) and a glass wool plug.

7.5.5.3 Activate in an oven at 130-150 &#xB0;C for a minimum of 24 hours and cool for 30 minutes. Use within 90 minutes of cooling.

7.6 Reference Matrices-Matrices in which the CDDs/CDFs and interfering compounds are not detected by this method.

7.6.1 Reagent water-Bottled water purchased locally, or prepared by passage through activated carbon.

7.6.2 High-solids reference matrix-Playground sand or similar material. Prepared by extraction with methylene chloride and/or baking at 450 &#xB0;C for a minimum of four hours.

7.6.3 Paper reference matrix-Glass-fiber filter, Gelman Type A, or equivalent. Cut paper to simulate the surface area of the paper sample being tested.

7.6.4 Tissue reference matrix-Corn or other vegetable oil. May be prepared by extraction with methylene chloride.

7.6.5 Other matrices-This method may be verified on any reference matrix by performing the tests given in Section 9.2. Ideally, the matrix should be free of the CDDs/CDFs, but in no case shall the background level of the CDDs/CDFs in the reference matrix exceed three times the minimum levels in Table 2. If low background levels of the CDDs/CDFs are present in the reference matrix, the spike level of the analytes used in Section 9.2 should be increased to provide a spike-to-background ratio in the range of 1:1 to 5:1 (Reference 15).

7.7 Standard Solutions-Purchased as solutions or mixtures with certification to their purity, concentration, and authenticity, or prepared from materials of known purity and composition. If the chemical purity is 98% or greater, the weight may be used without correction to compute the concentration of the standard. When not being used, standards are stored in the dark at room temperature in screw-capped vials with fluoropolymer-lined caps. A mark is placed on the vial at the level of the solution so that solvent loss by evaporation can be detected. If solvent loss has occurred, the solution should be replaced.

7.8 Stock Solutions.

7.8.1 Preparation-Prepare in nonane per the steps below or purchase as dilute solutions (Cambridge Isotope Laboratories (CIL), Woburn, MA, or equivalent). Observe the safety precautions in Section 5, and the recommendation in Section 5.1.2.

7.8.2 Dissolve an appropriate amount of assayed reference material in solvent. For example, weigh 1-2 mg of 2,3,7,8-TCDD to three significant figures in a 10 mL ground-glass-stoppered volumetric flask and fill to the mark with nonane. After the TCDD is completely dissolved, transfer the solution to a clean 15 mL vial with fluoropolymer-lined cap.

7.8.3 Stock standard solutions should be checked for signs of degradation prior to the preparation of calibration or performance test standards. Reference standards that can be used to determine the accuracy of calibration standards are available from CIL and may be available from other vendors.

7.9 PAR Stock Solution

7.9.1 All CDDs/CDFs-Using the solutions in Section 7.8, prepare the PAR stock solution to contain the CDDs/CDFs at the concentrations shown in Table 3. When diluted, the solution will become the PAR (Section 7.14).

7.9.2 If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, prepare the PAR stock solution to contain these compounds only.

7.10 Labeled-Compound Spiking Solution.

7.10.1 All CDDs/CDFs-From stock solutions, or from purchased mixtures, prepare this solution to contain the labeled compounds in nonane at the concentrations shown in Table 3. This solution is diluted with acetone prior to use (Section 7.10.3).

7.10.2 If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, prepare the labeled-compound solution to contain these compounds only. This solution is diluted with acetone prior to use (Section 7.10.3).

7.10.3 Dilute a sufficient volume of the labeled compound solution (Section 7.10.1 or 7.10.2) by a factor of 50 with acetone to prepare a diluted spiking solution. Each sample requires 1.0 mL of the diluted solution, but no more solution should be prepared than can be used in one day.

7.11 Cleanup Standard-PrepareCl-2,3,7,8-TCDD in nonane at the concentration shown in Table 3. The cleanup standard is added to all extracts prior to cleanup to measure the efficiency of the cleanup process.

7.12 Internal Standard(s).

7.12.1 All CDDs/CDFs-Prepare the internal standard solution to containC-1,2,3,4-TCDD andC-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD in nonane at the concentration shown in Table 3.

7.12.2 If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, prepare the internal standard solution to containC-1,2,3,4-TCDD only.

7.13 Calibration Standards (CS1 through CS5)-Combine the solutions in Sections 7.9 through 7.12 to produce the five calibration solutions shown in Table 4 in nonane. These solutions permit the relative response (labeled to native) and response factor to be measured as a function of concentration. The CS3 standard is used for calibration verification (VER). If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, combine the solutions appropriate to these compounds.

7.14 Precision and Recovery (PAR) Standard-Used for determination of initial (Section 9.2) and ongoing (Section 15.5) precision and recovery. Dilute 10 µL of the precision and recovery standard (Section 7.9.1 or 7.9.2) to 2.0 mL with acetone for each sample matrix for each sample batch. One mL each are required for the blank and OPR with each matrix in each batch.

7.15 GC Retention Time Window Defining Solution and Isomer Specificity Test Standard-Used to define the beginning and ending retention times for the dioxin and furan isomers and to demonstrate isomer specificity of the GC columns employed for determination of 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF. The standard must contain the compounds listed in Table 5 (CIL EDF-4006, or equivalent), at a minimum. It is not necessary to monitor the window-defining compounds if only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined. In this case, an isomer-specificity test standard containing the most closely eluted isomers listed in Table 5 (CIL EDF-4033, or equivalent) may be used.

7.16 QC Check Sample-A QC Check Sample should be obtained from a source independent of the calibration standards. Ideally, this check sample would be a certified reference material containing the CDDs/CDFs in known concentrations in a sample matrix similar to the matrix under test.

7.17 Stability of Solutions-Standard solutions used for quantitative purposes (Sections 7.9 through 7.15) should be analyzed periodically, and should be assayed against reference standards (Section 7.8.3) before further use.

8.1 Collect samples in amber glass containers following conventional sampling practices (Reference 16). Aqueous samples that flow freely are collected in refrigerated bottles using automatic sampling equipment. Solid samples are collected as grab samples using wide-mouth jars.

8.2 Maintain aqueous samples in the dark at 0-4 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until receipt at the laboratory. If residual chlorine is present in aqueous samples, add 80 mg sodium thiosulfate per liter of water. EPA Methods 330.4 and 330.5 may be used to measure residual chlorine (Reference 17). If sample pH is greater than 9, adjust to pH 7-9 with sulfuric acid.

Maintain solid, semi-solid, oily, and mixed-phase samples in the dark at <4 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until receipt at the laboratory.

Store aqueous samples in the dark at 0-4 &#xB0;C. Store solid, semi-solid, oily, mixed-phase, and tissue samples in the dark at <-10 &#xB0;C.

8.3 Fish and Tissue Samples.

8.3.1 Fish may be cleaned, filleted, or processed in other ways in the field, such that the laboratory may expect to receive whole fish, fish fillets, or other tissues for analysis.

8.3.2 Fish collected in the field should be wrapped in aluminum foil, and must be maintained at a temperature less than 4 &#xB0;C from the time of collection until receipt at the laboratory.

8.3.3 Samples must be frozen upon receipt at the laboratory and maintained in the dark at <-10 &#xB0;C until prepared. Maintain unused sample in the dark at <-10 &#xB0;C.

8.4 Holding Times.

8.4.1 There are no demonstrated maximum holding times associated with CDDs/CDFs in aqueous, solid, semi-solid, tissues, or other sample matrices. If stored in the dark at 0-4 &#xB0;C and preserved as given above (if required), aqueous samples may be stored for up to one year. Similarly, if stored in the dark at <-10 &#xB0;C, solid, semi-solid, multi-phase, and tissue samples may be stored for up to one year.

8.4.2 Store sample extracts in the dark at <-10 &#xB0;C until analyzed. If stored in the dark at <-10 &#xB0;C, sample extracts may be stored for up to one year.

9.1 Each laboratory that uses this method is required to operate a formal quality assurance program (Reference 18). The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, analysis of samples spiked with labeled compounds to evaluate and document data quality, and analysis of standards and blanks as tests of continued performance. Laboratory performance is compared to established performance criteria to determine if the results of analyses meet the performance characteristics of the method.

If the method is to be applied to sample matrix other than water (e.g., soils, filter cake, compost, tissue) the most appropriate alternate matrix (Sections 7.6.2 through 7.6.5) is substituted for the reagent water matrix (Section 7.6.1) in all performance tests.

9.1.1 The analyst shall make an initial demonstration of the ability to generate acceptable accuracy and precision with this method. This ability is established as described in Section 9.2.

9.1.2 In recognition of advances that are occurring in analytical technology, and to allow the analyst to overcome sample matrix interferences, the analyst is permitted certain options to improve separations or lower the costs of measurements. These options include alternate extraction, concentration, cleanup procedures, and changes in columns and detectors. Alternate determinative techniques, such as the substitution of spectroscopic or immuno-assay techniques, and changes that degrade method performance, are not allowed. If an analytical technique other than the techniques specified in this method is used, that technique must have a specificity equal to or better than the specificity of the techniques in this method for the analytes of interest.

9.1.2.1 Each time a modification is made to this method, the analyst is required to repeat the procedure in Section 9.2. If the detection limit of the method will be affected by the change, the laboratory is required to demonstrate that the MDL (40 CFR part 136, appendix B) is lower than one-third the regulatory compliance level or one-third the ML in this method, whichever is higher. If calibration will be affected by the change, the analyst must recalibrate the instrument per Section 10.

9.1.2.2 The laboratory is required to maintain records of modifications made to this method. These records include the following, at a minimum:

9.1.2.2.1 The names, titles, addresses, and telephone numbers of the analyst(s) who performed the analyses and modification, and of the quality control officer who witnessed and will verify the analyses and modifications.

9.1.2.2.2 A listing of pollutant(s) measured, by name and CAS Registry number.

9.1.2.2.3 A narrative stating reason(s) for the modifications.

9.1.2.2.4 Results from all quality control (QC) tests comparing the modified method to this method, including:

(a) Calibration (Section 10.5 through 10.7).

(b) Calibration verification (Section 15.3).

(c) Initial precision and recovery (Section 9.2).

(d) Labeled compound recovery (Section 9.3).

(e) Analysis of blanks (Section 9.5).

(f) Accuracy assessment (Section 9.4).

9.1.2.2.5 Data that will allow an independent reviewer to validate each determination by tracing the instrument output (peak height, area, or other signal) to the final result. These data are to include:

(a) Sample numbers and other identifiers.

(b) Extraction dates.

(c) Analysis dates and times.

(d) Analysis sequence/run chronology.

(e) Sample weight or volume (Section 11).

(f) Extract volume prior to each cleanup step (Section 13).

(g) Extract volume after each cleanup step (Section 13).

(h) Final extract volume prior to injection (Section 14).

(i) Injection volume (Section 14.3).

(j) Dilution data, differentiating between dilution of a sample or extract (Section 17.5).

(k) Instrument and operating conditions.

(l) Column (dimensions, liquid phase, solid support, film thickness, etc).

(m) Operating conditions (temperatures, temperature program, flow rates).

(n) Detector (type, operating conditions, etc).

(o) Chromatograms, printer tapes, and other recordings of raw data.

(p) Quantitation reports, data system outputs, and other data to link the raw data to the results reported.

9.1.3 Analyses of method blanks are required to demonstrate freedom from contamination (Section 4.3). The procedures and criteria for analysis of a method blank are described in Sections 9.5 and 15.6.

9.1.4 The laboratory shall spike all samples with labeled compounds to monitor method performance. This test is described in Section 9.3. When results of these spikes indicate atypical method performance for samples, the samples are diluted to bring method performance within acceptable limits. Procedures for dilution are given in Section 17.5.

9.1.5 The laboratory shall, on an ongoing basis, demonstrate through calibration verification and the analysis of the ongoing precision and recovery aliquot that the analytical system is in control. These procedures are described in Sections 15.1 through 15.5.

9.1.6 The laboratory shall maintain records to define the quality of data that is generated. Development of accuracy statements is described in Section 9.4.

9.2 Initial Precision and Recovery (IPR)-To establish the ability to generate acceptable precision and recovery, the analyst shall perform the following operations.

9.2.1 For low solids (aqueous) samples, extract, concentrate, and analyze four 1 L aliquots of reagent water spiked with the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) and the precision and recovery standard (Section 7.14) according to the procedures in Sections 11 through 18. For an alternative sample matrix, four aliquots of the alternative reference matrix (Section 7.6) are used. All sample processing steps that are to be used for processing samples, including preparation (Section 11), extraction (Section 12), and cleanup (Section 13), shall be included in this test.

9.2.2 Using results of the set of four analyses, compute the average concentration (X) of the extracts in ng/mL and the standard deviation of the concentration (s) in ng/mL for each compound, by isotope dilution for CDDs/CDFs with a labeled analog, and by internal standard for 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, and the labeled compounds.

9.2.3 For each CDD/CDF and labeled compound, compare s and X with the corresponding limits for initial precision and recovery in Table 6. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, compare s and X with the corresponding limits for initial precision and recovery in Table 6a. If s and X for all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may begin. If, however, any individual s exceeds the precision limit or any individual X falls outside the range for accuracy, system performance is unacceptable for that compound. Correct the problem and repeat the test (Section 9.2).

9.3 The laboratory shall spike all samples with the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) to assess method performance on the sample matrix.

9.3.1 Analyze each sample according to the procedures in Sections 11 through 18.

9.3.2 Compute the percent recovery of the labeled compounds and the cleanup standard using the internal standard method (Section 17.2).

9.3.3 The recovery of each labeled compound must be within the limits in Table 7 when all 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs are determined, and within the limits in Table 7a when only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are determined. If the recovery of any compound falls outside of these limits, method performance is unacceptable for that compound in that sample. To overcome such difficulties, water samples are diluted and smaller amounts of soils, sludges, sediments, and other matrices are reanalyzed per Section 18.4.

9.4 Recovery of labeled compounds from samples should be assessed and records should be maintained.

9.4.1 After the analysis of five samples of a given matrix type (water, soil, sludge, pulp, etc.) for which the labeled compounds pass the tests in Section 9.3, compute the average percent recovery (R) and the standard deviation of the percent recovery (SR) for the labeled compounds only. Express the assessment as a percent recovery interval from R-2Sto R = 2Sfor each matrix. For example, if R = 90% and S= 10% for five analyses of pulp, the recovery interval is expressed as 70-110%.

9.4.2 Update the accuracy assessment for each labeled compound in each matrix on a regular basis (e.g., after each 5-10 new measurements).

9.5 Method Blanks-Reference matrix method blanks are analyzed to demonstrate freedom from contamination (Section 4.3).

9.5.1 Prepare, extract, clean up, and concentrate a method blank with each sample batch (samples of the same matrix started through the extraction process on the same 12-hour shift, to a maximum of 20 samples). The matrix for the method blank shall be similar to sample matrix for the batch, e.g., a 1 L reagent water blank (Section 7.6.1), high-solids reference matrix blank (Section 7.6.2), paper matrix blank (Section 7.6.3); tissue blank (Section 7.6.4) or alternative reference matrix blank (Section 7.6.5). Analyze the blank immediately after analysis of the OPR (Section 15.5) to demonstrate freedom from contamination.

9.5.2 If any 2,3,7,8-substituted CDD/CDF (Table 1) is found in the blank at greater than the minimum level (Table 2) or one-third the regulatory compliance level, whichever is greater; or if any potentially interfering compound is found in the blank at the minimum level for each level of chlorination given in Table 2 (assuming a response factor of 1 relative to theC-1,2,3,4-TCDD internal standard for compounds not listed in Table 1), analysis of samples is halted until the blank associated with the sample batch shows no evidence of contamination at this level. All samples must be associated with an uncontaminated method blank before the results for those samples may be reported for regulatory compliance purposes.

9.6 QC Check Sample-Analyze the QC Check Sample (Section 7.16) periodically to assure the accuracy of calibration standards and the overall reliability of the analytical process. It is suggested that the QC Check Sample be analyzed at least quarterly.

9.7 The specifications contained in this method can be met if the apparatus used is calibrated properly and then maintained in a calibrated state. The standards used for calibration (Section 10), calibration verification (Section 15.3), and for initial (Section 9.2) and ongoing (Section 15.5) precision and recovery should be identical, so that the most precise results will be obtained. A GC/MS instrument will provide the most reproducible results if dedicated to the settings and conditions required for the analyses of CDDs/CDFs by this method.

9.8 Depending on specific program requirements, field replicates may be collected to determine the precision of the sampling technique, and spiked samples may be required to determine the accuracy of the analysis when the internal standard method is used.

10.1 Establish the operating conditions necessary to meet the minimum retention times for the internal standards in Section 10.2.4 and the relative retention times for the CDDs/CDFs in Table 2.

10.1.1 Suggested GC operating conditions:

Optimize GC conditions for compound separation and sensitivity. Once optimized, the same GC conditions must be used for the analysis of all standards, blanks, IPR and OPR aliquots, and samples.

10.1.2 Mass spectrometer (MS) resolution-Obtain a selected ion current profile (SICP) of each analyte in Table 3 at the two exact m/z's specified in Table 8 and at ≥10,000 resolving power by injecting an authentic standard of the CDDs/CDFs either singly or as part of a mixture in which there is no interference between closely eluted components.

10.1.2.1 The analysis time for CDDs/CDFs may exceed the long-term mass stability of the mass spectrometer. Because the instrument is operated in the high-resolution mode, mass drifts of a few ppm (e.g., 5 ppm in mass) can have serious adverse effects on instrument performance. Therefore, a mass-drift correction is mandatory and a lock-mass m/z from PFK is used for drift correction. The lock-mass m/z is dependent on the exact m/z's monitored within each descriptor, as shown in Table 8. The level of PFK metered into the HRMS during analyses should be adjusted so that the amplitude of the most intense selected lock-mass m/z signal (regardless of the descriptor number) does not exceed 10% of the full-scale deflection for a given set of detector parameters. Under those conditions, sensitivity changes that might occur during the analysis can be more effectively monitored.

10.1.2.2 If the HRMS has the capability to monitor resolution during the analysis, it is acceptable to terminate the analysis when the resolution falls below 10,000 to save reanalysis time.

10.1.2.3 Using a PFK molecular leak, tune the instrument to meet the minimum required resolving power of 10,000 (10% valley) at m/z 304.9824 (PFK) or any other reference signal close to m/z 304 (from TCDF). For each descriptor (Table 8), monitor and record the resolution and exact m/z's of three to five reference peaks covering the mass range of the descriptor. The resolution must be greater than or equal to 10,000, and the deviation between the exact m/z and the theoretical m/z (Table 8) for each exact m/z monitored must be less than 5 ppm.

10.2 Ion Abundance Ratios, Minimum Levels, Signal-to-Noise Ratios, and Absolute Retention Times-Choose an injection volume of either 1 µL or 2 µL, consistent with the capability of the HRGC/HRMS instrument. Inject a 1 µL or 2 µL aliquot of the CS1 calibration solution (Table 4) using the GC conditions from Section 10.1.1. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, the operating conditions and specifications below apply to analysis of those compounds only.

10.2.1 Measure the SICP areas for each analyte, and compute the ion abundance ratios at the exact m/z's specified in Table 8. Compare the computed ratio to the theoretical ratio given in Table 9.

10.2.1.1 The exact m/z's to be monitored in each descriptor are shown in Table 8. Each group or descriptor shall be monitored in succession as a function of GC retention time to ensure that all CDDs/CDFs are detected. Additional m/z's may be monitored in each descriptor, and the m/z's may be divided among more than the five descriptors listed in Table 8, provided that the laboratory is able to monitor the m/z's of all the CDDs/CDFs that may elute from the GC in a given retention-time window. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, the descriptors may be modified to include only the exact m/z's for the tetra-and penta-isomers, the diphenyl ethers, and the lock m/z's.

10.2.1.2 The mass spectrometer shall be operated in a mass-drift correction mode, using perfluorokerosene (PFK) to provide lock m/z's. The lock-mass for each group of m/z's is shown in Table 8. Each lock mass shall be monitored and shall not vary by more than +/-20% throughout its respective retention time window. Variations of the lock mass by more than 20% indicate the presence of coeluting interferences that may significantly reduce the sensitivity of the mass spectrometer. Reinjection of another aliquot of the sample extract will not resolve the problem. Additional cleanup of the extract may be required to remove the interferences.

10.2.2 All CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds in the CS1 standard shall be within the QC limits in Table 9 for their respective ion abundance ratios; otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted and this test repeated until the m/z ratios fall within the limits specified. If the adjustment alters the resolution of the mass spectrometer, resolution shall be verified (Section 10.1.2) prior to repeat of the test.

10.2.3 Verify that the HRGC/HRMS instrument meets the minimum levels in Table 2. The peaks representing the CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds in the CS1 calibration standard must have signal-to-noise ratios (S/N) greater than or equal to 10.0. Otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted and this test repeated until the minimum levels in Table 2 are met.

10.2.4 The absolute retention time ofC-1,2,3,4-TCDD (Section 7.12) shall exceed 25.0 minutes on the DB-5 column, and the retention time ofC-1,2,3,4-TCDD shall exceed 15.0 minutes on the DB-225 column; otherwise, the GC temperature program shall be adjusted and this test repeated until the above-stated minimum retention time criteria are met.

10.4 Isomer Specificity.

10.4.1 Analyze the isomer specificity test standards (Section 7.15) using the procedure in Section 14 and the optimized conditions for sample analysis (Section 10.1.1).

10.4.2 Compute the percent valley between the GC peaks that elute most closely to the 2,3,7,8-TCDD and TCDF isomers, on their respective columns, per Figures 6 and 7.

10.4.3 Verify that the height of the valley between the most closely eluted isomers and the 2,3,7,8-substituted isomers is less than 25% (computed as 100 x/y in Figures 6 and 7). If the valley exceeds 25%, adjust the analytical conditions and repeat the test or replace the GC column and recalibrate (Sections 10.1.2 through 10.7).

10.5 Calibration by Isotope Dilution-Isotope dilution calibration is used for the 15 2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs for which labeled compounds are added to samples prior to extraction. The reference compound for each CDD/CDF compound is shown in Table 2.

10.5.1 A calibration curve encompassing the concentration range is prepared for each compound to be determined. The relative response (RR) (labeled to native) vs. concentration in standard solutions is plotted or computed using a linear regression. Relative response is determined according to the procedures described below. Five calibration points are employed.

10.5.2 The response of each CDD/CDF relative to its labeled analog is determined using the area responses of both the primary and secondary exact m/z's specified in Table 8, for each calibration standard, as follows:

10.5.3 To calibrate the analytical system by isotope dilution, inject a volume of calibration standards CS1 through CS5 (Section 7.13 and Table 4) identical to the volume chosen in Section 10.2, using the procedure in Section 14 and the conditions in Section 10.1.1 and Table 2. Compute the relative response (RR) at each concentration.

10.5.4 Linearity-If the relative response for any compound is constant (less than 20% coefficient of variation) over the five-point calibration range, an averaged relative response may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the five-point calibration range.

10.6 Calibration by Internal Standard-The internal standard method is applied to determination of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD (Section 17.1.2), OCDF (Section 17.1.1), the non 2,3,7,8-substituted compounds, and to the determination of labeled compounds for intralaboratory statistics (Sections 9.4 and 15.5.4).

10.6.1 Response factors-Calibration requires the determination of response factors (RF) defined by the following equation:

10.6.2 To calibrate the analytical system by internal standard, inject 1.0 µL or 2.0 µL of calibration standards CS1 through CS5 (Section 7.13 and Table 4) using the procedure in Section 14 and the conditions in Section 10.1.1 and Table 2. Compute the response factor (RF) at each concentration.

10.6.3 Linearity-If the response factor (RF) for any compound is constant (less than 35% coefficient of variation) over the five-point calibration range, an averaged response factor may be used for that compound; otherwise, the complete calibration curve for that compound shall be used over the five-point range.

10.7 Combined Calibration-By using calibration solutions (Section 7.13 and Table 4) containing the CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds and the internal standards, a single set of analyses can be used to produce calibration curves for the isotope dilution and internal standard methods. These curves are verified each shift (Section 15.3) by analyzing the calibration verification standard (VER, Table 4). Recalibration is required if any of the calibration verification criteria (Section 15.3) cannot be met.

10.8 Data Storage-MS data shall be collected, recorded, and stored.

10.8.1 Data acquisition-The signal at each exact m/z shall be collected repetitively throughout the monitoring period and stored on a mass storage device.

10.8.2 Response factors and multipoint calibrations-The data system shall be used to record and maintain lists of response factors (response ratios for isotope dilution) and multipoint calibration curves. Computations of relative standard deviation (coefficient of variation) shall be used to test calibration linearity. Statistics on initial performance (Section 9.2) and ongoing performance (Section 15.5) should be computed and maintained, either on the instrument data system, or on a separate computer system.

11.1 Sample preparation involves modifying the physical form of the sample so that the CDDs/CDFs can be extracted efficiently. In general, the samples must be in a liquid form or in the form of finely divided solids in order for efficient extraction to take place. Table 10 lists the phases and suggested quantities for extraction of various sample matrices.

For samples known or expected to contain high levels of the CDDs/CDFs, the smallest sample size representative of the entire sample should be used (see Section 17.5).

For all samples, the blank and IPR/OPR aliquots must be processed through the same steps as the sample to check for contamination and losses in the preparation processes.

11.1.1 For samples that contain particles, percent solids and particle size are determined using the procedures in Sections 11.2 and 11.3, respectively.

11.1.2 Aqueous samples-Because CDDs/CDFs may be bound to suspended particles, the preparation of aqueous samples is dependent on the solids content of the sample.

11.1.2.1 Aqueous samples visibly absent particles are prepared per Section 11.4 and extracted directly using the separatory funnel or SPE techniques in Sections 12.1 or 12.2, respectively.

11.1.2.2 Aqueous samples containing visible particles and containing one percent suspended solids or less are prepared using the procedure in Section 11.4. After preparation, the sample is extracted directly using the SPE technique in 12.2 or filtered per Section 11.4.3. After filtration, the particles and filter are extracted using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3 and the filtrate is extracted using the separatory funnel procedure in Section 12.1.

11.1.2.3 For aqueous samples containing greater than one percent solids, a sample aliquot sufficient to provide 10 g of dry solids is used, as described in Section 11.5.

11.1.3 Solid samples are prepared using the procedure described in Section 11.5 followed by extraction via the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.

11.1.4 Multiphase samples-The phase(s) containing the CDDs/CDFs is separated from the non-CDD/CDF phase using pressure filtration and centrifugation, as described in Section 11.6. The CDDs/CDFs will be in the organic phase in a multiphase sample in which an organic phase exists.

11.1.5 Procedures for grinding, homogenization, and blending of various sample phases are given in Section 11.7.

11.1.6 Tissue samples-Preparation procedures for fish and other tissues are given in Section 11.8.

11.2 Determination of Percent Suspended Solids.

11.2.1 Aqueous liquids and multi-phase samples consisting of mainly an aqueous phase.

11.2.1.1 Dessicate and weigh a GF/D filter (Section 6.5.3) to three significant figures.

11.2.1.2 Filter 10.0 +/-0.02 mL of well-mixed sample through the filter.

11.2.1.3 Dry the filter a minimum of 12 hours at 110 +/-5 &#xB0;C and cool in a dessicator.

11.2.1.4 Calculate percent solids as follows:

11.2.2 Non-aqueous liquids, solids, semi-solid samples, and multi-phase samples in which the main phase is not aqueous; but not tissues.

11.2.2.1 Weigh 5-10 g of sample to three significant figures in a tared beaker.

11.2.2.2 Dry a minimum of 12 hours at 110 +/-5 &#xB0;C, and cool in a dessicator.

11.2.2.3 Calculate percent solids as follows:

11.3 Determination of Particle Size.

11.3.1 Spread the dried sample from Section 11.2.2.2 on a piece of filter paper or aluminum foil in a fume hood or glove box.

11.3.2 Estimate the size of the particles in the sample. If the size of the largest particles is greater than 1 mm, the particle size must be reduced to 1 mm or less prior to extraction using the procedures in Section 11.7.

11.4 Preparation of Aqueous Samples Containing 1% Suspended Solids or Less.

11.4.1 Aqueous samples visibly absent particles are prepared per the procedure below and extracted directly using the separatory funnel or SPE techniques in Sections 12.1 or 12.2, respectively. Aqueous samples containing visible particles and one percent suspended solids or less are prepared using the procedure below and extracted using either the SPE technique in Section 12.2 or further prepared using the filtration procedure in Section 11.4.3. The filtration procedure is followed by SDS extraction of the filter and particles (Section 12.3) and separatory funnel extraction of the filtrate (Section 12.1). The SPE procedure is followed by SDS extraction of the filter and disk.

11.4.2 Preparation of sample and QC aliquots.

11.4.2.1 Mark the original level of the sample on the sample bottle for reference. Weigh the sample plus bottle to +/-1.

11.4.2.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled-compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into the sample bottle. Cap the bottle and mix the sample by careful shaking. Allow the sample to equilibrate for one to two hours, with occasional shaking.

11.4.2.3 For each sample or sample batch (to a maximum of 20 samples) to be extracted during the same 12-hour shift, place two 1.0 L aliquots of reagent water in clean sample bottles or flasks.

11.4.2.4 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled-compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into both reagent water aliquots. One of these aliquots will serve as the method blank.

11.4.2.5 Spike 1.0 mL of the PAR standard (Section 7.14) into the remaining reagent water aliquot. This aliquot will serve as the OPR (Section 15.5).

11.4.2.6 If SPE is to be used, add 5 mL of methanol to the sample, cap and shake the sample to mix thoroughly, and proceed to Section 12.2 for extraction. If SPE is not to be used, and the sample is visibly absent particles, proceed to Section 12.1 for extraction. If SPE is not to be used and the sample contains visible particles, proceed to the following section for filtration of particles.

11.4.3 Filtration of particles.

11.4.3.1 Assemble a Buchner funnel (Section 6.5.5) on top of a clean filtration flask. Apply vacuum to the flask, and pour the entire contents of the sample bottle through a glass-fiber filter (Section 6.5.6) in the Buchner funnel, swirling the sample remaining in the bottle to suspend any particles.

11.4.3.2 Rinse the sample bottle twice with approximately 5 mL portions of reagent water to transfer any remaining particles onto the filter.

11.4.3.3 Rinse any particles off the sides of the Buchner funnel with small quantities of reagent water.

11.4.3.4 Weigh the empty sample bottle to +/-1 g. Determine the weight of the sample by difference. Save the bottle for further use.

11.4.3.5 Extract the filtrate using the separatory funnel procedure in Section 12.1.

11.4.3.6 Extract the filter containing the particles using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.

11.5 Preparation of Samples Containing Greater Than 1% Solids.

11.5.1 Weigh a well-mixed aliquot of each sample (of the same matrix type) sufficient to provide 10 g of dry solids (based on the solids determination in Section 11.2) into a clean beaker or glass jar.

11.5.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into the sample.

11.5.3 For each sample or sample batch (to a maximum of 20 samples) to be extracted during the same 12-hour shift, weigh two 10 g aliquots of the appropriate reference matrix (Section 7.6) into clean beakers or glass jars.

11.5.4 Spike 1.0 mL of the diluted labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into each reference matrix aliquot. One aliquot will serve as the method blank. Spike 1.0 mL of the PAR standard (Section 7.14) into the other reference matrix aliquot. This aliquot will serve as the OPR (Section 15.5).

11.5.5 Stir or tumble and equilibrate the aliquots for one to two hours.

11.5.6 Decant excess water. If necessary to remove water, filter the sample through a glass-fiber filter and discard the aqueous liquid.

11.5.7 If particles >1mm are present in the sample (as determined in Section 11.3.2), spread the sample on clean aluminum foil in a hood. After the sample is dry, grind to reduce the particle size (Section 11.7).

11.5.8 Extract the sample and QC aliquots using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.

11.6 Multiphase Samples.

11.6.1 Using the percent solids determined in Section 11.2.1 or 11.2.2, determine the volume of sample that will provide 10 g of solids, up to 1 L of sample.

11.6.2 Pressure filter the amount of sample determined in Section 11.6.1 through Whatman GF/D glass-fiber filter paper (Section 6.5.3). Pressure filter the blank and OPR aliquots through GF/D papers also. If necessary to separate the phases and/or settle the solids, centrifuge these aliquots prior to filtration.

11.6.3 Discard any aqueous phase (if present). Remove any non-aqueous liquid present and reserve the maximum amount filtered from the sample (Section 11.6.1) or 10 g, whichever is less, for combination with the solid phase (Section 12.3.5).

11.6.4 If particles >1mm are present in the sample (as determined in Section 11.3.2) and the sample is capable of being dried, spread the sample and QC aliquots on clean aluminum foil in a hood. After the aliquots are dry or if the sample cannot be dried, reduce the particle size using the procedures in Section 11.7 and extract the reduced particles using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3. If particles >1mm are not present, extract the particles and filter in the sample and QC aliquots directly using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.

11.7 Sample grinding, homogenization, or blending-Samples with particle sizes greater than 1 mm (as determined in Section 11.3.2) are subjected to grinding, homogenization, or blending. The method of reducing particle size to less than 1 mm is matrix-dependent. In general, hard particles can be reduced by grinding with a mortar and pestle. Softer particles can be reduced by grinding in a Wiley mill or meat grinder, by homogenization, or in a blender.

11.7.1 Each size-reducing preparation procedure on each matrix shall be verified by running the tests in Section 9.2 before the procedure is employed routinely.

11.7.2 The grinding, homogenization, or blending procedures shall be carried out in a glove box or fume hood to prevent particles from contaminating the work environment.

11.7.3 Grinding-Certain papers and pulps, slurries, and amorphous solids can be ground in a Wiley mill or heavy duty meat grinder. In some cases, reducing the temperature of the sample to freezing or to dry ice or liquid nitrogen temperatures can aid in the grinding process. Grind the sample aliquots from Section 11.5.7 or 11.6.4 in a clean grinder. Do not allow the sample temperature to exceed 50 &#xB0;C. Grind the blank and reference matrix aliquots using a clean grinder.

11.7.4 Homogenization or blending-Particles that are not ground effectively, or particles greater than 1 mm in size after grinding, can often be reduced in size by high speed homogenization or blending. Homogenize and/or blend the particles or filter from Section 11.5.7 or 11.6.4 for the sample, blank, and OPR aliquots.

11.7.5 Extract the aliquots using the SDS procedure in Section 12.3.

11.8 Fish and Other Tissues-Prior to processing tissue samples, the laboratory must determine the exact tissue to be analyzed. Common requests for analysis of fish tissue include whole fish-skin on, whole fish-skin removed, edible fish fillets (filleted in the field or by the laboratory), specific organs, and other portions. Once the appropriate tissue has been determined, the sample must be homogenized.

11.8.1 Homogenization.

11.8.1.1 Samples are homogenized while still frozen, where practical. If the laboratory must dissect the whole fish to obtain the appropriate tissue for analysis, the unused tissues may be rapidly refrozen and stored in a clean glass jar for subsequent use.

11.8.1.2 Each analysis requires 10 g of tissue (wet weight). Therefore, the laboratory should homogenize at least 20 g of tissue to allow for re-extraction of a second aliquot of the same homogenized sample, if re-analysis is required. When whole fish analysis is necessary, the entire fish is homogenized.

11.8.1.3 Homogenize the sample in a tissue homogenizer (Section 6.3.3) or grind in a meat grinder (Section 6.3.4). Cut tissue too large to feed into the grinder into smaller pieces. To assure homogeneity, grind three times.

11.8.1.4 Transfer approximately 10 g (wet weight) of homogenized tissue to a clean, tared, 400-500 mL beaker. For the alternate HCl digestion/extraction, transfer the tissue to a clean, tared 500-600 mL wide-mouth bottle. Record the weight to the nearest 10 mg.

11.8.1.5 Transfer the remaining homogenized tissue to a clean jar with a fluoropolymer-lined lid. Seal the jar and store the tissue at <-10 &#xB0;C. Return any tissue that was not homogenized to its original container and store at <-10 &#xB0;C.

11.8.2 QC aliquots.

11.8.2.1 Prepare a method blank by adding approximately 10 g of the oily liquid reference matrix (Section 7.6.4) to a 400-500 mL beaker. For the alternate HCl digestion/extraction, add the reference matrix to a 500-600 mL wide-mouth bottle. Record the weight to the nearest 10 mg.

11.8.2.2 Prepare a precision and recovery aliquot by adding approximately 10 g of the oily liquid reference matrix (Section 7.6.4) to a separate 400-500 mL beaker or wide-mouth bottle, depending on the extraction procedure to be used. Record the weight to the nearest 10 mg. If the initial precision and recovery test is to be performed, use four aliquots; if the ongoing precision and recovery test is to be performed, use a single aliquot.

11.8.3 Spiking

11.8.3.1 Spike 1.0 mL of the labeled compound spiking solution (Section 7.10.3) into the sample, blank, and OPR aliquot.

11.8.3.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the PAR standard (Section 7.14) into the OPR aliquot.

11.8.4 Extract the aliquots using the procedures in Section 12.4.

Extraction procedures include separatory funnel (Section 12.1) and solid phase (Section 12.2) for aqueous liquids; Soxhlet/Dean-Stark (Section 12.3) for solids, filters, and SPE disks; and Soxhlet extraction (Section 12.4.1) and HCl digestion (Section 12.4.2) for tissues. Acid/base back-extraction (Section 12.5) is used for initial cleanup of extracts.

Macro-concentration procedures include rotary evaporation (Section 12.6.1), heating mantle (Section 12.6.2), and Kuderna-Danish (K-D) evaporation (Section 12.6.3). Micro-concentration uses nitrogen blowdown (Section 12.7).

12.1 Separatory funnel extraction of filtrates and of aqueous samples visibly absent particles.

12.1.1 Pour the spiked sample (Section 11.4.2.2) or filtrate (Section 11.4.3.5) into a 2 L separatory funnel. Rinse the bottle or flask twice with 5 mL of reagent water and add these rinses to the separatory funnel.

12.1.2 Add 60 mL methylene chloride to the empty sample bottle (Section 12.1.1), seal, and shake 60 seconds to rinse the inner surface. Transfer the solvent to the separatory funnel, and extract the sample by shaking the funnel for two minutes with periodic venting. Allow the organic layer to separate from the aqueous phase for a minimum of 10 minutes. If an emulsion forms and is more than one-third the volume of the solvent layer, employ mechanical techniques to complete the phase separation (see note below). Drain the methylene chloride extract through a solvent-rinsed glass funnel approximately one-half full of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) supported on clean glass-fiber paper into a solvent-rinsed concentration device (Section 12.6).

Experience with aqueous samples high in dissolved organic materials (e.g., paper mill effluents) has shown that acidification of the sample prior to extraction may reduce the formation of emulsions. Paper industry methods suggest that the addition of up to 400 mL of ethanol to a 1 L effluent sample may also reduce emulsion formation. However, studies by EPA suggest that the effect may be a result of sample dilution, and that the addition of reagent water may serve the same function. Mechanical techniques may still be necessary to complete the phase separation. If either acidification or addition of ethanol is utilized, the laboratory must perform the startup tests described in Section 9.2 using the same techniques.

12.1.3 Extract the water sample two more times with 60 mL portions of methylene chloride. Drain each portion through the sodium sulfate into the concentrator. After the third extraction, rinse the separatory funnel with at least 20 mL of methylene chloride, and drain this rinse through the sodium sulfate into the concentrator. Repeat this rinse at least twice. Set aside the funnel with sodium sulfate if the extract is to be combined with the extract from the particles.

12.1.4 Concentrate the extract using one of the macro-concentration procedures in Section 12.6.

12.1.4.1 If the extract is from a sample visibly absent particles (Section 11.1.2.1), adjust the final volume of the concentrated extract to approximately 10 mL with hexane, transfer to a 250 mL separatory funnel, and back-extract using the procedure in Section 12.5.

12.1.4.2 If the extract is from the aqueous filtrate (Section 11.4.3.5), set aside the concentration apparatus for addition of the SDS extract from the particles (Section 12.3.9.1.2).

12.2 SPE of Samples Containing Less Than 1% Solids (References 19-20).

12.2.1 Disk preparation.

12.2.1.1 Place an SPE disk on the base of the filter holder (Figure 4) and wet with toluene. While holding a GMF 150 filter above the SPE disk with tweezers, wet the filter with toluene and lay the filter on the SPE disk, making sure that air is not trapped between the filter and disk. Clamp the filter and SPE disk between the 1 L glass reservoir and the vacuum filtration flask.

12.2.1.2 Rinse the sides of the filtration flask with approx 15 mL of toluene using a squeeze bottle or syringe. Apply vacuum momentarily until a few drops appear at the drip tip. Release the vacuum and allow the filter/disk to soak for approx one minute. Apply vacuum and draw all of the toluene through the filter/disk. Repeat the wash step with approx 15 mL of acetone and allow the filter/disk to air dry.

12.2.1.3 Re-wet the filter/disk with approximately 15 mL of methanol, allowing the filter/disk to soak for approximately one minute. Pull the methanol through the filter/disk using the vacuum, but retain a layer of methanol approximately 1 mm thick on the filter. Do not allow the disk to go dry from this point until the end of the extraction.

12.2.1.4 Rinse the filter/disk with two 50-mL portions of reagent water by adding the water to the reservoir and pulling most through, leaving a layer of water on the surface of the filter.

12.2.2 Extraction.

12.2.2.1 Pour the spiked sample (Section 11.4.2.2), blank (Section 11.4.2.4), or IPR/OPR aliquot (Section 11.4.2.5) into the reservoir and turn on the vacuum to begin the extraction. Adjust the vacuum to complete the extraction in no less than 10 minutes. For samples containing a high concentration of particles (suspended solids), filtration times may be eight hours or longer.

12.2.2.2 Before all of the sample has been pulled through the filter/disk, rinse the sample bottle with approximately 50 mL of reagent water to remove any solids, and pour into the reservoir. Pull through the filter/disk. Use additional reagent water rinses until all visible solids are removed.

12.2.2.3 Before all of the sample and rinses have been pulled through the filter/disk, rinse the sides of the reservoir with small portions of reagent water.

12.2.2.4 Allow the filter/disk to dry, then remove the filter and disk and place in a glass Petri dish. Extract the filter and disk per Section 12.3.

12.3 SDS Extraction of Samples Containing Particles, and of Filters and/or Disks.

12.3.1 Charge a clean extraction thimble (Section 6.4.2.2) with 5.0 g of 100/200 mesh silica (Section 7.5.1.1) topped with 100 g of quartz sand (Section 7.3.2).

12.3.2 Place the thimble in a clean extractor. Place 30-40 mL of toluene in the receiver and 200-250 mL of toluene in the flask.

12.3.3 Pre-extract the glassware by heating the flask until the toluene is boiling. When properly adjusted, one to two drops of toluene will fall per second from the condenser tip into the receiver. Extract the apparatus for a minimum of three hours.

12.3.4 After pre-extraction, cool and disassemble the apparatus. Rinse the thimble with toluene and allow to air dry.

12.3.5 Load the wet sample, filter, and/or disk from Section 11.4.3.6, 11.5.8, 11.6.4, 11.7.3, 11.7.4, or 12.2.2.4 and any nonaqueous liquid from Section 11.6.3 into the thimble and manually mix into the sand layer with a clean metal spatula, carefully breaking up any large lumps of sample.

12.3.6 Reassemble the pre-extracted SDS apparatus, and add a fresh charge of toluene to the receiver and reflux flask. Apply power to the heating mantle to begin refluxing. Adjust the reflux rate to match the rate of percolation through the sand and silica beds until water removal lessens the restriction to toluene flow. Frequently check the apparatus for foaming during the first two hours of extraction. If foaming occurs, reduce the reflux rate until foaming subsides.

12.3.7 Drain the water from the receiver at one to two hours and eight to nine hours, or sooner if the receiver fills with water. Reflux the sample for a total of 16-24 hours. Cool and disassemble the apparatus. Record the total volume of water collected.

12.3.8 Remove the distilling flask. Drain the water from the Dean-Stark receiver and add any toluene in the receiver to the extract in the flask.

12.3.9 Concentrate the extract using one of the macro-concentration procedures in Section 12.6 per the following:

12.3.9.1 Extracts from the particles in an aqueous sample containing less than 1% solids (Section 11.4.3.6).

12.3.9.1.1 Concentrate the extract to approximately 5 mL using the rotary evaporator or heating mantle procedures in Section 12.6.1 or 12.6.2.

12.3.9.1.2 Quantitatively transfer the extract through the sodium sulfate (Section 12.1.3) into the apparatus that was set aside (Section 12.1.4.2) and reconcentrate to the level of the toluene.

12.3.9.1.3 Adjust to approximately 10 mL with hexane, transfer to a 250 mL separatory funnel, and proceed with back-extraction (Section 12.5).

12.3.9.2 Extracts from particles (Sections 11.5 through 11.6) or from the SPE filter and disk (Section 12.2.2.4)-Concentrate to approximately 10 mL using the rotary evaporator or heating mantle (Section 12.6.1 or 12.6.2), transfer to a 250 mL separatory funnel, and proceed with back-extraction (Section 12.5).

12.4 Extraction of Tissue-Two procedures are provided for tissue extraction.

12.4.1 Soxhlet extraction (Reference 21).

12.4.1.1 Add 30-40 g of powdered anhydrous sodium sulfate to each of the beakers (Section 11.8.4) and mix thoroughly. Cover the beakers with aluminum foil and allow to equilibrate for 12-24 hours. Remix prior to extraction to prevent clumping.

12.4.1.2 Assemble and pre-extract the Soxhlet apparatus per Sections 12.3.1 through 12.3.4, except use the methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) mixture for the pre-extraction and rinsing and omit the quartz sand. The Dean-Stark moisture trap may also be omitted, if desired.

12.4.1.3 Reassemble the pre-extracted Soxhlet apparatus and add a fresh charge of methylene chloride:hexane to the reflux flask.

12.4.1.4 Transfer the sample/sodium sulfate mixture (Section 12.4.1.1) to the Soxhlet thimble, and install the thimble in the Soxhlet apparatus.

12.4.1.5 Rinse the beaker with several portions of solvent mixture and add to the thimble. Fill the thimble/receiver with solvent. Extract for 18-24 hours.

12.4.1.6 After extraction, cool and disassemble the apparatus.

12.4.1.7 Quantitatively transfer the extract to a macro-concentration device (Section 12.6), and concentrate to near dryness. Set aside the concentration apparatus for re-use.

12.4.1.8 Complete the removal of the solvent using the nitrogen blowdown procedure (Section 12.7) and a water bath temperature of 60 &#xB0;C. Weigh the receiver, record the weight, and return the receiver to the blowdown apparatus, concentrating the residue until a constant weight is obtained.

12.4.1.9 Percent lipid determination-The lipid content is determined by extraction of tissue with the same solvent system (methylene chloride:hexane) that was used in EPA's National Dioxin Study (Reference 22) so that lipid contents are consistent with that study.

12.4.1.9.1 Redissolve the residue in the receiver in hexane and spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the solution.

12.4.1.9.2 Transfer the residue/hexane to the anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1) or bottle for the acidified silica gel batch cleanup (Section 13.7.2), retaining the boiling chips in the concentration apparatus. Use several rinses to assure that all material is transferred. If necessary, sonicate or heat the receiver slightly to assure that all material is re-dissolved. Allow the receiver to dry. Weigh the receiver and boiling chips.

12.4.1.9.3 Calculate the lipid content to the nearest three significant figures as follows:

12.4.1.9.4 It is not necessary to determine the lipid content of the blank, IPR, or OPR aliquots.

12.4.2 HCl digestion/extraction and concentration (References 23-26).

12.4.2.1 Add 200 mL of 6 N HCl and 200 mL of methylene chloride:hexane (1:1) to the sample and QC aliquots (Section 11.8.4).

12.4.2.2 Cap and shake each bottle one to three times. Loosen the cap in a hood to vent excess pressure. Shake each bottle for 10-30 seconds and vent.

12.4.2.3 Tightly cap and place on shaker. Adjust the shaker action and speed so that the acid, solvent, and tissue are in constant motion. However, take care to avoid such violent action that the bottle may be dislodged from the shaker. Shake for 12-24 hours.

12.4.2.4 After digestion, remove the bottles from the shaker. Allow the bottles to stand so that the solvent and acid layers separate.

12.4.2.5 Decant the solvent through a glass funnel with glass-fiber filter (Sections 6.5.2 through 6.5.3) containing approximately 10 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) into a macro-concentration apparatus (Section 12.6). Rinse the contents of the bottle with two 25 mL portions of hexane and pour through the sodium sulfate into the apparatus.

12.4.2.6 Concentrate the solvent to near dryness using a macro-concentration procedure (Section 12.6).

12.4.2.7 Complete the removal of the solvent using the nitrogen blowdown apparatus (Section 12.7) and a water bath temperature of 60 &#xB0;C. Weigh the receiver, record the weight, and return the receiver to the blowdown apparatus, concentrating the residue until a constant weight is obtained.

12.4.2.8 Percent lipid determination-The lipid content is determined in the same solvent system [methylene chloride:hexane (1:1)] that was used in EPA's National Dioxin Study (Reference 22) so that lipid contents are consistent with that study.

12.4.2.8.1 Redissolve the residue in the receiver in hexane and spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the solution.

12.4.2.8.2 Transfer the residue/hexane to the narrow-mouth 100-200 mL bottle retaining the boiling chips in the receiver. Use several rinses to assure that all material is transferred, to a maximum hexane volume of approximately 70 mL. Allow the receiver to dry. Weigh the receiver and boiling chips.

12.4.2.8.3 Calculate the percent lipid per Section 12.4.1.9.3. It is not necessary to determine the lipid content of the blank, IPR, or OPR aliquots.

12.4.2.9 Clean up the extract per Section 13.7.3.

12.5 Back-Extraction with Base and Acid.

12.5.1 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the separatory funnels containing the sample and QC extracts from Section 12.1.4.1, 12.3.9.1.3, or 12.3.9.2.

12.5.2 Partition the extract against 50 mL of potassium hydroxide solution (Section 7.1.1). Shake for two minutes with periodic venting into a hood. Remove and discard the aqueous layer. Repeat the base washing until no color is visible in the aqueous layer, to a maximum of four washings. Minimize contact time between the extract and the base to prevent degradation of the CDDs/CDFs. Stronger potassium hydroxide solutions may be employed for back-extraction, provided that the laboratory meets the specifications for labeled compound recovery and demonstrates acceptable performance using the procedure in Section 9.2.

12.5.3 Partition the extract against 50 mL of sodium chloride solution (Section 7.1.4) in the same way as with base. Discard the aqueous layer.

12.5.4 Partition the extract against 50 mL of sulfuric acid (Section 7.1.2) in the same way as with base. Repeat the acid washing until no color is visible in the aqueous layer, to a maximum of four washings.

12.5.5 Repeat the partitioning against sodium chloride solution and discard the aqueous layer.

12.5.6 Pour each extract through a drying column containing 7-10 cm of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1). Rinse the separatory funnel with 30-50 mL of solvent, and pour through the drying column. Collect each extract in a round-bottom flask. Re-concentrate the sample and QC aliquots per Sections 12.6 through 12.7, and clean up the samples and QC aliquots per Section 13.

12.6 Macro-Concentration-Extracts in toluene are concentrated using a rotary evaporator or a heating mantle; extracts in methylene chloride or hexane are concentrated using a rotary evaporator, heating mantle, or Kuderna-Danish apparatus.

12.6.1 Rotary evaporation-Concentrate the extracts in separate round-bottom flasks.

12.6.1.1 Assemble the rotary evaporator according to manufacturer's instructions, and warm the water bath to 45 &#xB0;C. On a daily basis, preclean the rotary evaporator by concentrating 100 mL of clean extraction solvent through the system. Archive both the concentrated solvent and the solvent in the catch flask for a contamination check if necessary. Between samples, three 2-3 mL aliquots of solvent should be rinsed down the feed tube into a waste beaker.

12.6.1.2 Attach the round-bottom flask containing the sample extract to the rotary evaporator. Slowly apply vacuum to the system, and begin rotating the sample flask.

12.6.1.3 Lower the flask into the water bath, and adjust the speed of rotation and the temperature as required to complete concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of concentration, the flow of solvent into the receiving flask will be steady, but no bumping or visible boiling of the extract will occur.

12.6.1.4 When the liquid in the concentration flask has reached an apparent volume of approximately 2 mL, remove the flask from the water bath and stop the rotation. Slowly and carefully admit air into the system. Be sure not to open the valve so quickly that the sample is blown out of the flask. Rinse the feed tube with approximately 2 mL of solvent.

12.6.1.5 Proceed to Section 12.6.4 for preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.

12.6.2 Heating mantle-Concentrate the extracts in separate round-bottom flasks.

12.6.2.1 Add one or two clean boiling chips to the round-bottom flask, and attach a three-ball macro Snyder column. Prewet the column by adding approximately 1 mL of solvent through the top. Place the round-bottom flask in a heating mantle, and apply heat as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter, but the chambers will not flood.

12.6.2.2 When the liquid has reached an apparent volume of approximately 10 mL, remove the round-bottom flask from the heating mantle and allow the solvent to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the glass joint into the receiver with small portions of solvent.

12.6.2.3 Proceed to Section 12.6.4 for preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.

12.6.3 Kuderna-Danish (K-D)-Concentrate the extracts in separate 500 mL K-D flasks equipped with 10 mL concentrator tubes. The K-D technique is used for solvents such as methylene chloride and hexane. Toluene is difficult to concentrate using the K-D technique unless a water bath fed by a steam generator is used.

12.6.3.1 Add one to two clean boiling chips to the receiver. Attach a three-ball macro Snyder column. Prewet the column by adding approximately 1 mL of solvent through the top. Place the K-D apparatus in a hot water bath so that the entire lower rounded surface of the flask is bathed with steam.

12.6.3.2 Adjust the vertical position of the apparatus and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 15-20 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood.

12.6.3.3 When the liquid has reached an apparent volume of 1 mL, remove the K-D apparatus from the bath and allow the solvent to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes. Remove the Snyder column and rinse the flask and its lower joint into the concentrator tube with 1-2 mL of solvent. A 5 mL syringe is recommended for this operation.

12.6.3.4 Remove the three-ball Snyder column, add a fresh boiling chip, and attach a two-ball micro Snyder column to the concentrator tube. Prewet the column by adding approximately 0.5 mL of solvent through the top. Place the apparatus in the hot water bath.

12.6.3.5 Adjust the vertical position and the water temperature as required to complete the concentration in 5-10 minutes. At the proper rate of distillation, the balls of the column will actively chatter but the chambers will not flood.

12.6.3.6 When the liquid reaches an apparent volume of 0.5 mL, remove the apparatus from the water bath and allow to drain and cool for at least 10 minutes.

12.6.3.7 Proceed to 12.6.4 for preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.

12.6.4 Preparation for back-extraction or micro-concentration and solvent exchange.

12.6.4.1 For back-extraction (Section 12.5), transfer the extract to a 250 mL separatory funnel. Rinse the concentration vessel with small portions of hexane, adjust the hexane volume in the separatory funnel to 10-20 mL, and proceed to back-extraction (Section 12.5).

12.6.4.2 For determination of the weight of residue in the extract, or for clean-up procedures other than back-extraction, transfer the extract to a blowdown vial using two to three rinses of solvent. Proceed with micro-concentration and solvent exchange (Section 12.7).

12.7 Micro-Concentration and Solvent Exchange.

12.7.1 Extracts to be subjected to GPC or HPLC cleanup are exchanged into methylene chloride. Extracts to be cleaned up using silica gel, alumina, carbon, and/or Florisil are exchanged into hexane.

12.7.2 Transfer the vial containing the sample extract to a nitrogen blowdown device. Adjust the flow of nitrogen so that the surface of the solvent is just visibly disturbed.

12.7.3 Lower the vial into a 45 &#xB0;C water bath and continue concentrating.

12.7.3.1 If the extract is to be concentrated to dryness for weight determination (Sections 12.4.1.8, 12.4.2.7, and 13.7.1.4), blow dry until a constant weight is obtained.

12.7.3.2 If the extract is to be concentrated for injection into the GC/MS or the solvent is to be exchanged for extract cleanup, proceed as follows:

12.7.4 When the volume of the liquid is approximately 100 L, add 2-3 mL of the desired solvent (methylene chloride for GPC and HPLC, or hexane for the other cleanups) and continue concentration to approximately 100 µL. Repeat the addition of solvent and concentrate once more.

12.7.5 If the extract is to be cleaned up by GPC, adjust the volume of the extract to 5.0 mL with methylene chloride. If the extract is to be cleaned up by HPLC, further concentrate the extract to 30 µL. Proceed with GPC or HPLC cleanup (Section 13.2 or 13.6, respectively).

12.7.6 If the extract is to be cleaned up by column chromatography (alumina, silica gel, Carbopak/Celite, or Florisil), bring the final volume to 1.0 mL with hexane. Proceed with column cleanups (Sections 13.3 through 13.5 and 13.8).

12.7.7 If the extract is to be concentrated for injection into the GC/MS (Section 14), quantitatively transfer the extract to a 0.3 mL conical vial for final concentration, rinsing the larger vial with hexane and adding the rinse to the conical vial. Reduce the volume to approximately 100 µL. Add 10 µL of nonane to the vial, and evaporate the solvent to the level of the nonane. Seal the vial and label with the sample number. Store in the dark at room temperature until ready for GC/MS analysis. If GC/MS analysis will not be performed on the same day, store the vial at <-10 &#xB0;C.

13.1 Cleanup may not be necessary for relatively clean samples (e.g., treated effluents, groundwater, drinking water). If particular circumstances require the use of a cleanup procedure, the analyst may use any or all of the procedures below or any other appropriate procedure. Before using a cleanup procedure, the analyst must demonstrate that the requirements of Section 9.2 can be met using the cleanup procedure. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, the cleanup procedures may be optimized for isolation of these two compounds.

13.1.1 Gel permeation chromatography (Section 13.2) removes high molecular weight interferences that cause GC column performance to degrade. It should be used for all soil and sediment extracts and may be used for water extracts that are expected to contain high molecular weight organic compounds (e.g., polymeric materials, humic acids).

13.1.2 Acid, neutral, and basic silica gel (Section 13.3), alumina (Section 13.4), and Florisil (Section 13.8) are used to remove nonpolar and polar interferences. Alumina and Florisil are used to remove chlorodiphenyl ethers.

13.1.3 Carbopak/Celite (Section 13.5) is used to remove nonpolar interferences.

13.1.4 HPLC (Section 13.6) is used to provide specificity for the 2,3,7,8-substituted and other CDD and CDF isomers.

13.1.5 The anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1), acidified silica gel batch adsorption procedure (Section 13.7.2), and sulfuric acid and base back-extraction (Section 13.7.3) are used for removal of lipids from tissue samples.

13.2 Gel Permeation Chromatography (GPC).

13.2.1 Column packing.

13.2.1.1 Place 70-75 g of SX-3 Bio-beads (Section 6.7.1.1) in a 400-500 mL beaker.

13.2.1.2 Cover the beads with methylene chloride and allow to swell overnight (a minimum of 12 hours).

13.2.1.3 Transfer the swelled beads to the column (Section 6.7.1.1) and pump solvent through the column, from bottom to top, at 4.5-5.5 mL/minute prior to connecting the column to the detector.

13.2.1.4 After purging the column with solvent for one to two hours, adjust the column head pressure to 7-10 psig and purge for four to five hours to remove air. Maintain a head pressure of 7-10 psig. Connect the column to the detector (Section 6.7.1.4).

13.2.2 Column calibration.

13.2.2.1 Load 5 mL of the calibration solution (Section 7.4) into the sample loop.

13.2.2.2 Inject the calibration solution and record the signal from the detector. The elution pattern will be corn oil, bis(2-ethyl hexyl)phthalate, pentachlorophenol, perylene, and sulfur.

13.2.2.3 Set the "dump time" to allow >85% removal of the corn oil and >85% collection of the phthalate.

13.2.2.4 Set the "collect time" to the peak minimum between perylene and sulfur.

13.2.2.5 Verify the calibration with the calibration solution after every 20 extracts. Calibration is verified if the recovery of the pentachlorophenol is greater than 85%. If calibration is not verified, the system shall be recalibrated using the calibration solution, and the previous 20 samples shall be re-extracted and cleaned up using the calibrated GPC system.

13.2.3 Extract cleanup-GPC requires that the column not be overloaded. The column specified in this method is designed to handle a maximum of 0.5 g of high molecular weight material in a 5 mL extract. If the extract is known or expected to contain more than 0.5 g, the extract is split into aliquots for GPC, and the aliquots are combined after elution from the column. The residue content of the extract may be obtained gravimetrically by evaporating the solvent from a 50 µL aliquot.

13.2.3.1 Filter the extract or load through the filter holder (Section 6.7.1.3) to remove the particles. Load the 5.0 mL extract onto the column.

13.2.3.2 Elute the extract using the calibration data determined in Section 13.2.2. Collect the eluate in a clean 400-500 mL beaker.

13.2.3.3 Rinse the sample loading tube thoroughly with methylene chloride between extracts to prepare for the next sample.

13.2.3.4 If a particularly dirty extract is encountered, a 5.0 mL methylene chloride blank shall be run through the system to check for carry-over.

13.2.3.5 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the GC/MS.

13.3 Silica Gel Cleanup.

13.3.1 Place a glass-wool plug in a 15 mm ID chromatography column (Section 6.7.4.2). Pack the column bottom to top with: 1 g silica gel (Section 7.5.1.1), 4 g basic silica gel (Section 7.5.1.3), 1 g silica gel, 8 g acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2), 2 g silica gel, and 4 g granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1). Tap the column to settle the adsorbents.

13.3.2 Pre-elute the column with 50-100 mL of hexane. Close the stopcock when the hexane is within 1 mm of the sodium sulfate. Discard the eluate. Check the column for channeling. If channeling is present, discard the column and prepare another.

13.3.3 Apply the concentrated extract to the column. Open the stopcock until the extract is within 1 mm of the sodium sulfate.

13.3.4 Rinse the receiver twice with 1 mL portions of hexane, and apply separately to the column. Elute the CDDs/CDFs with 100 mL hexane, and collect the eluate.

13.3.5 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.

13.3.6 For extracts of samples known to contain large quantities of other organic compounds (such as paper mill effluents), it may be advisable to increase the capacity of the silica gel column. This may be accomplished by increasing the strengths of the acid and basic silica gels. The acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2) may be increased in strength to as much as 44% w/w (7.9 g sulfuric acid added to 10 g silica gel). The basic silica gel (Section 7.5.1.3) may be increased in strength to as much as 33% w/w (50 mL 1N NaOH added to 100 g silica gel), or the potassium silicate (Section 7.5.1.4) may be used.

13.4 Alumina Cleanup.

13.4.1 Place a glass-wool plug in a 15 mm ID chromatography column (Section 6.7.4.2).

13.4.2 If using acid alumina, pack the column by adding 6 g acid alumina (Section 7.5.2.1). If using basic alumina, substitute 6 g basic alumina (Section 7.5.2.2). Tap the column to settle the adsorbents.

13.4.3 Pre-elute the column with 50-100 mL of hexane. Close the stopcock when the hexane is within 1 mm of the alumina.

13.4.4 Discard the eluate. Check the column for channeling. If channeling is present, discard the column and prepare another.

13.4.5 Apply the concentrated extract to the column. Open the stopcock until the extract is within 1 mm of the alumina.

13.4.6 Rinse the receiver twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply separately to the column. Elute the interfering compounds with 100 mL hexane and discard the eluate.

13.4.7 The choice of eluting solvents will depend on the choice of alumina (acid or basic) made in Section 13.4.2.

13.4.7.1 If using acid alumina, elute the CDDs/CDFs from the column with 20 mL methylene chloride:hexane (20:80 v/v). Collect the eluate.

13.4.7.2 If using basic alumina, elute the CDDs/CDFs from the column with 20 mL methylene chloride:hexane (50:50 v/v). Collect the eluate.

13.4.8 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.

13.5 Carbon Column.

13.5.1 Cut both ends from a 10 mL disposable serological pipet (Section 6.7.3.2) to produce a 10 cm column. Fire-polish both ends and flare both ends if desired. Insert a glass-wool plug at one end, and pack the column with 0.55 g of Carbopak/Celite (Section 7.5.3.3) to form an adsorbent bed approximately 2 cm long. Insert a glass-wool plug on top of the bed to hold the adsorbent in place.

13.5.2 Pre-elute the column with 5 mL of toluene followed by 2 mL of methylene chloride: methanol:toluene (15:4:1 v/v), 1 mL of methylene chloride:cyclohexane (1:1 v/v), and 5 mL of hexane. If the flow rate of eluate exceeds 0.5 mL/minute, discard the column.

13.5.3 When the solvent is within 1 mm of the column packing, apply the sample extract to the column. Rinse the sample container twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply separately to the column. Apply 2 mL of hexane to complete the transfer.

13.5.4 Elute the interfering compounds with two 3 mL portions of hexane, 2 mL of methylene chloride:cyclohexane (1:1 v/v), and 2 mL of methylene chloride:methanol:toluene (15:4:1 v/v). Discard the eluate.

13.5.5 Invert the column, and elute the CDDs/CDFs with 20 mL of toluene. If carbon particles are present in the eluate, filter through glass-fiber filter paper.

13.5.6 Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 and 12.7 for further cleanup or injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.

13.6 HPLC (Reference 6).

13.6.1 Column calibration.

13.6.1.1 Prepare a calibration standard containing the 2,3,7,8-substituted isomers and/or other isomers of interest at a concentration of approximately 500 pg/µL in methylene chloride.

13.6.1.2 Inject 30 µL of the calibration solution into the HPLC and record the signal from the detector. Collect the eluant for reuse. The elution order will be the tetra- through octa-isomers.

13.6.1.3 Establish the collection time for the tetra-isomers and for the other isomers of interest. Following calibration, flush the injection system with copious quantities of methylene chloride, including a minimum of five 50 µL injections while the detector is monitored, to ensure that residual CDDs/CDFs are removed from the system.

13.6.1.4 Verify the calibration with the calibration solution after every 20 extracts. Calibration is verified if the recovery of the CDDs/CDFs from the calibration standard (Section 13.6.1.1) is 75-125% compared to the calibration (Section 13.6.1.2). If calibration is not verified, the system shall be recalibrated using the calibration solution, and the previous 20 samples shall be re-extracted and cleaned up using the calibrated system.

13.6.2 Extract cleanup-HPLC requires that the column not be overloaded. The column specified in this method is designed to handle a maximum of 30 µL of extract. If the extract cannot be concentrated to less than 30 µL, it is split into fractions and the fractions are combined after elution from the column.

13.6.2.1 Rinse the sides of the vial twice with 30 µL of methylene chloride and reduce to 30 µL with the evaporation apparatus (Section 12.7).

13.6.2.2 Inject the 30 µL extract into the HPLC.

13.6.2.3 Elute the extract using the calibration data determined in Section 13.6.1. Collect the fraction(s) in a clean 20 mL concentrator tube containing 5 mL of hexane:acetone (1:1 v/v).

13.6.2.4 If an extract containing greater than 100 ng/mL of total CDD or CDF is encountered, a 30 µL methylene chloride blank shall be run through the system to check for carry-over.

13.6.2.5 Concentrate the eluate per Section 12.7 for injection into the GC/MS.

13.7 Cleanup of Tissue Lipids-Lipids are removed from the Soxhlet extract using either the anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1) or acidified silica gel (Section 13.7.2), or are removed from the HCl digested extract using sulfuric acid and base back-extraction (Section 13.7.3).

13.7.1 Anthropogenic isolation column (References 22 and 27)-Used for removal of lipids from the Soxhlet/SDS extraction (Section 12.4.1).

13.7.1.1 Prepare the column as given in Section 7.5.4.

13.7.1.2 Pre-elute the column with 100 mL of hexane. Drain the hexane layer to the top of the column, but do not expose the sodium sulfate.

13.7.1.3 Load the sample and rinses (Section 12.4.1.9.2) onto the column by draining each portion to the top of the bed. Elute the CDDs/CDFs from the column into the apparatus used for concentration (Section 12.4.1.7) using 200 mL of hexane.

13.7.1.4 Concentrate the cleaned up extract (Sections 12.6 through 12.7) to constant weight per Section 12.7.3.1. If more than 500 mg of material remains, repeat the cleanup using a fresh anthropogenic isolation column.

13.7.1.5 Redissolve the extract in a solvent suitable for the additional cleanups to be used (Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8).

13.7.1.6 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the residue/solvent.

13.7.1.7 Clean up the extract using the procedures in Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8. Alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8) and carbon (Section 13.5) are recommended as minimum additional cleanup steps.

13.7.1.8 Following cleanup, concentrate the extract to 10 µL as described in Section 12.7 and proceed with the analysis in Section 14.

13.7.2 Acidified silica gel (Reference 28)-Procedure alternate to the anthropogenic isolation column (Section 13.7.1) that is used for removal of lipids from the Soxhlet/SDS extraction (Section 12.4.1).

13.7.2.1 Adjust the volume of hexane in the bottle (Section 12.4.1.9.2) to approximately 200 mL.

13.7.2.2 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the residue/solvent.

13.7.2.3 Drop the stirring bar into the bottle, place the bottle on the stirring plate, and begin stirring.

13.7.2.4 Add 30-100 g of acid silica gel (Section 7.5.1.2) to the bottle while stirring, keeping the silica gel in motion. Stir for two to three hours.

13.7.2.5 After stirring, pour the extract through approximately 10 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate (Section 7.2.1) contained in a funnel with glass-fiber filter into a macro contration device (Section 12.6). Rinse the bottle and sodium sulfate with hexane to complete the transfer.

13.7.2.6 Concentrate the extract per Sections 12.6 through 12.7 and clean up the extract using the procedures in Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8. Alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8) and carbon (Section 13.5) are recommended as minimum additional cleanup steps.

13.7.3 Sulfuric acid and base back-extraction. Used with HCl digested extracts (Section 12.4.2).

13.7.3.1 Spike 1.0 mL of the cleanup standard (Section 7.11) into the residue/solvent (Section 12.4.2.8.2).

13.7.3.2 Add 10 mL of concentrated sulfuric acid to the bottle. Immediately cap and shake one to three times. Loosen cap in a hood to vent excess pressure. Cap and shake the bottle so that the residue/solvent is exposed to the acid for a total time of approximately 45 seconds.

13.7.3.3 Decant the hexane into a 250 mL separatory funnel making sure that no acid is transferred. Complete the quantitative transfer with several hexane rinses.

13.7.3.4 Back extract the solvent/residue with 50 mL of potassium hydroxide solution per Section 12.5.2, followed by two reagent water rinses.

13.7.3.5 Drain the extract through a filter funnel containing approximately 10 g of granular anhydrous sodium sulfate in a glass-fiber filter into a macro concentration device (Section 12.6).

13.7.3.6 Concentrate the cleaned up extract to a volume suitable for the additional cleanups given in Sections 13.2 through 13.6 and 13.8. Gel permeation chromatography (Section 13.2), alumina (Section 13.4) or Florisil (Section 13.8), and Carbopak/Celite (Section 13.5) are recommended as minimum additional cleanup steps.

13.7.3.7 Following cleanup, concentrate the extract to 10 L as described in Section 12.7 and proceed with analysis per Section 14.

13.8 Florisil Cleanup (Reference 29).

13.8.1 Pre-elute the activated Florisil column (Section 7.5.3) with 10 mL of methylene chloride followed by 10 mL of hexane:methylene chloride (98:2 v/v) and discard the solvents.

13.8.2 When the solvent is within 1 mm of the packing, apply the sample extract (in hexane) to the column. Rinse the sample container twice with 1 mL portions of hexane and apply to the column.

13.8.3 Elute the interfering compounds with 20 mL of hexane:methylene chloride (98:2) and discard the eluate.

13.8.4 Elute the CDDs/CDFs with 35 mL of methylene chloride and collect the eluate. Concentrate the eluate per Sections 12.6 through 12.7 for further cleanup or for injection into the HPLC or GC/MS.

14.1 Establish the operating conditions given in Section 10.1.

14.2 Add 10 uL of the appropriate internal standard solution (Section 7.12) to the sample extract immediately prior to injection to minimize the possibility of loss by evaporation, adsorption, or reaction. If an extract is to be reanalyzed and evaporation has occurred, do not add more instrument internal standard solution. Rather, bring the extract back to its previous volume (e.g., 19 L) with pure nonane only (18 L if 2 L injections are used).

14.3 Inject 1.0 µL or 2.0 µL of the concentrated extract containing the internal standard solution, using on-column or splitless injection. The volume injected must be identical to the volume used for calibration (Section 10). Start the GC column initial isothermal hold upon injection. Start MS data collection after the solvent peak elutes. Stop data collection after the OCDD and OCDF have eluted. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, stop data collection after elution of these compounds. Return the column to the initial temperature for analysis of the next extract or standard.

15.1 At the beginning of each 12-hour shift during which analyses are performed, GC/MS system performance and calibration are verified for all CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds. For these tests, analysis of the CS3 calibration verification (VER) standard (Section 7.13 and Table 4) and the isomer specificity test standards (Section 7.15 and Table 5) shall be used to verify all performance criteria. Adjustment and/or recalibration (Section 10) shall be performed until all performance criteria are met. Only after all performance criteria are met may samples, blanks, IPRs, and OPRs be analyzed.

15.2 MS Resolution-A static resolving power of at least 10,000 (10% valley definition) must be demonstrated at the appropriate m/z before any analysis is performed. Static resolving power checks must be performed at the beginning and at the end of each 12-hour shift according to procedures in Section 10.1.2. Corrective actions must be implemented whenever the resolving power does not meet the requirement.

15.3 Calibration Verification.

15.3.1 Inject the VER standard using the procedure in Section 14.

15.3.2 The m/z abundance ratios for all CDDs/CDFs shall be within the limits in Table 9; otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted until the m/z abundance ratios fall within the limits specified, and the verification test shall be repeated. If the adjustment alters the resolution of the mass spectrometer, resolution shall be verified (Section 10.1.2) prior to repeat of the verification test.

15.3.3 The peaks representing each CDD/CDF and labeled compound in the VER standard must be present with S/N of at least 10; otherwise, the mass spectrometer shall be adjusted and the verification test repeated.

15.3.4 Compute the concentration of each CDD/CDF compound by isotope dilution (Section 10.5) for those compounds that have labeled analogs (Table 1). Compute the concentration of the labeled compounds by the internal standard method (Section 10.6). These concentrations are computed based on the calibration data in Section 10.

15.3.5 For each compound, compare the concentration with the calibration verification limit in Table 6. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, compare the concentration to the limit in Table 6a. If all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, calibration has been verified and analysis of standards and sample extracts may proceed. If, however, any compound fails its respective limit, the measurement system is not performing properly for that compound. In this event, prepare a fresh calibration standard or correct the problem causing the failure and repeat the resolution (Section 15.2) and verification (Section 15.3) tests, or recalibrate (Section 10).

15.4 Retention Times and GC Resolution.

15.4.1 Retention times.

15.4.1.1 Absolute-The absolute retention times of theC-1,2,3,4-TCDD andC-1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD GCMS internal standards in the verification test (Section 15.3) shall be within +/-15 seconds of the retention times obtained during calibration (Sections 10.2.1 and 10.2.4).

15.4.1.2 Relative-The relative retention times of CDDs/CDFs and labeled compounds in the verification test (Section 15.3) shall be within the limits given in Table 2.

15.4.2 GC resolution.

15.4.2.1 Inject the isomer specificity standards (Section 7.15) on their respective columns.

15.4.2.2 The valley height between 2,3,7,8-TCDD and the other tetra-dioxin isomers at m/z 319.8965, and between 2,3,7,8-TCDF and the other tetra-furan isomers at m/z 303.9016 shall not exceed 25% on their respective columns (Figures 6 and 7).

15.4.3 If the absolute retention time of any compound is not within the limits specified or if the 2,3,7,8-isomers are not resolved, the GC is not performing properly. In this event, adjust the GC and repeat the verification test (Section 15.3) or recalibrate (Section 10), or replace the GC column and either verify calibration or recalibrate.

15.5 Ongoing Precision and Recovery.

15.5.1 Analyze the extract of the ongoing precision and recovery (OPR) aliquot (Section 11.4.2.5, 11.5.4, 11.6.2, 11.7.4, or 11.8.3.2) prior to analysis of samples from the same batch.

15.5.2 Compute the concentration of each CDD/CDF by isotope dilution for those compounds that have labeled analogs (Section 10.5). Compute the concentration of 1,2,3,7,8,9-HxCDD, OCDF, and each labeled compound by the internal standard method (Section 10.6).

15.5.3 For each CDD/CDF and labeled compound, compare the concentration to the OPR limits given in Table 6. If only 2,3,7,8-TCDD and 2,3,7,8-TCDF are to be determined, compare the concentration to the limits in Table 6a. If all compounds meet the acceptance criteria, system performance is acceptable and analysis of blanks and samples may proceed. If, however, any individual concentration falls outside of the range given, the extraction/concentration processes are not being performed properly for that compound. In this event, correct the problem, re-prepare, extract, and clean up the sample batch and repeat the ongoing precision and recovery test (Section 15.5).

15.5.4 Add results that pass the specifications in Section 15.5.3 to initial and previous ongoing data for each compound in each matrix. Update QC charts to form a graphic representation of continued laboratory performance. Develop a statement of laboratory accuracy for each CDD/CDF in each matrix type by calculating the average percent recovery (R) and the standard deviation of percent recovery (S). Express the accuracy as a recovery interval from R-2Sto R = 2S. For example, if R = 95% and S= 5%, the accuracy is 85-105%.

15.6 Blank-Analyze the method blank extracted with each sample batch immediately following analysis of the OPR aliquot to demonstrate freedom from contamination and freedom from carryover from the OPR analysis. The results of the analysis of the blank must meet the specifications in Section 9.5.2 before sample analyses may proceed.

A CDD, CDF, or labeled compound is identified in a standard, blank, or sample when all of the criteria in Sections 16.1 through 16.4 are met.

16.1 The signals for the two exact m/z's in Table 8 must be present and must maximize within the same two seconds.

16.2 The signal-to-noise ratio (S/N) for the GC peak at each exact m/z must be greater than or equal to 2.5 for each CDD or CDF detected in a sample extract, and greater than or equal to 10 for all CDDs/CDFs in the calibration standard (Sections 10.2.3 and 15.3.3).

16.3 The ratio of the integrated areas of the two exact m/z's specified in Table 8 must be within the limit in Table 9, or within +/-10% of the ratio in the midpoint (CS3) calibration or calibration verification (VER), whichever is most recent.

16.4 The relative retention time of the peak for a 2,3,7,8-substituted CDD or CDF must be within the limit in Table 2. The retention time of peaks representing non-2,3,7,8-substituted CDDs/CDFs must be within the retention time windows established in Section 10.3.

16.5 Confirmatory Analysis-Isomer specificity for 2,3,7,8-TCDF cannot be achieved on the DB-5 column. Therefore, any sample in which 2,3,7,8-TCDF is identified by analysis on a DB-5 column must have a confirmatory analysis performed on a DB-225, SP-2330, or equivalent GC column. The operating conditions in Section 10.1.1 may be adjusted to optimize the analysis on the second GC column, but the GC/MS must meet the mass resolution and calibration specifications in Section 10.

16.6 If the criteria for identification in Sections 16.1 through 16.5 are not met, the CDD or CDF has not been identified and the results may not be reported for regulatory compliance purposes. If interferences preclude identification, a new aliquot of sample must be extracted, further cleaned up, and analyzed.

17.0 Quantitative Determination

17.1 Isotope Dilution Quantitation-By adding a known amount of a labeled compound to every sample prior to extraction, correction for recovery of the CDD/CDF can be made because the CDD/CDF and its labeled analog exhibit similar effects upon extraction, concentration, and gas chromatography. Relative response (RR) values are used in conjunction with the initial calibration data described in Section 10.5 to determine concentrations directly, so long as labeled compound spiking levels are constant, using the following equation:

17.1.1 Because of a potential interference, the labeled analog of OCDF is not added to the sample. Therefore, OCDF is quantitated against labeled OCDD. As a result, the concentration of OCDF is corrected for the recovery of the labeled OCDD. In instances where OCDD and OCDF behave differently during sample extraction, concentration, and cleanup procedures, this may decrease the accuracy of the OCDF results. However, given the low toxicity of this compound relative to the other dioxins and furans, the potential decrease in accuracy is not considered significant.
