
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix A to Part 136 - Methods for Organic Chemical Analysis of Municipal and Industrial Wastewater
###### 47,

5. "Reference Compound to Calibrate Ion Abundance Measurement in Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry Systems," J.W. Eichelberger, L.E. Harris, and W.L. Budde, Anal. Chem.,955 (1975).

6. "Handbook of Analytical Quality Control in Water and Wastewater Laboratories," USEPA, EMSL/Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA-600/4-79-019 (March 1979).

7. "Standard Practice for Sampling Water," ASTM Annual Book of Standards, ASTM, Philadelphia, PA, 76 (1980).

8. "Methods 330.4 and 330.5 for Total Residual Chlorine," USEPA, EMSL/ Cincinnati, OH 45268, EPA 600/4-70-020 (March 1979).

9. Colby, B.N., Beimer, R.G., Rushneck, D.R., and Telliard, W.A., "Isotope Dilution Gas Chromatography-Mass Spectrometry for the determination of Priority Pollutants in Industrial Effluents." USEPA, Effluent Guidelines Division, Washington, DC 20460 (1980).

10. "Inter-laboratory Validation of US Environmental Protection Agency Method 1625," USEPA, Effluent Guidelines Division, Washington, DC 20460 (June 15, 1984).

To support measurement of several semivolatile pollutants, EPA has developed this attachment to EPA Method 1625B.The modifications listed in this attachment are approved only for monitoring wastestreams from the Centralized Waste Treatment Point Source Category (40 CFR part 437) and the Landfills Point Source Category (40 CFR part 445). EPA Method 1625B (the Method) employs sample extraction with methylene chloride followed by analysis of the extract using capillary column gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS). This attachment addresses the addition of the semivolatile pollutants listed in Tables 1 and 2 to all applicable standard, stock, and spiking solutions utilized for the determination of semivolatile organic compounds by EPA Method 1625B.

The additional semivolatile organic compounds listed in Tables 1 and 2 are added to all applicable calibration, spiking, and other solutions utilized in the determination of semivolatile compounds by EPA Method 1625. The instrument is to be calibrated with these compounds, and all procedures and quality control tests described in the Method must be performed.
