
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7
###### DO NOT BOIL.

11.2.4 Reduce the volume of the sample aliquot to about 20 mL by gentle heating at 85 &#xB0;C.This step takes about two hours for a 100 mL aliquot with the rate of evaporation rapidly increasing as the sample volume approaches 20 mL. (A spare beaker containing 20 mL of water can be used as a gauge.)

11.2.5 Cover the lip of the beaker with a watch glass to reduce additional evaporation and gently reflux the sample for 30 minutes. (Slight boiling may occur, but vigorous boiling must be avoided to prevent loss of the HCl-HO azeotrope.)

11.2.6 Allow the beaker to cool. Quantitatively transfer the sample solution to a 50 mL volumetric flask, make to volume with reagent water, stopper and mix.

11.2.7 Allow any undissolved material to settle overnight, or centrifuge a portion of the prepared sample until clear. (If after centrifuging or standing overnight the sample contains suspended solids that would clog the nebulizer, a portion of the sample may be filtered for their removal prior to analysis. However, care should be exercised to avoid potential contamination from filtration.) The sample is now ready for analysis. Because the effects of various matrices on the stability of diluted samples cannot be characterized, all analyses should be performed as soon as possible after the completed preparation.

11.3.1 For the determination of total recoverable analytes in solid samples, mix the sample thoroughly and transfer a portion (>20 g) to tared weighing dish, weigh the sample and record the wet weight (WW). (For samples with <35% moisture a 20 g portion is sufficient. For samples with moisture >35% a larger aliquot 50-100 g is required.) Dry the sample to a constant weight at 60 &#xB0;C and record the dry weight (DW) for calculation of percent solids (Section 12.6). (The sample is dried at 60 &#xB0;C to prevent the loss of mercury and other possible volatile metallic compounds, to facilitate sieving, and to ready the sample for grinding.)

11.3.2 To achieve homogeneity, sieve the dried sample using a 5-mesh polypropylene sieve and grind in a mortar and pestle. (The sieve, mortar and pestle should be cleaned between samples.) From the dried, ground material weigh accurately a representative 1.0 +/-0.01 g aliquot (W) of the sample and transfer to a 250 mL Phillips beaker for acid extraction (Sections 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, and 1.9).

11.3.3 To the beaker add 4 mL of (1 + 1) HNOand 10 mL of (1 + 4) HCl. Cover the lip of the beaker with a watch glass. Place the beaker on a hot plate for reflux extraction of the analytes. The hot plate should be located in a fume hood and previously adjusted to provide a reflux temperature of approximately 95 &#xB0;C. (See the following note.)

11.3.4 Heat the sample and gently reflux for 30 minutes. Very slight boiling may occur, however vigorous boiling must be avoided to prevent loss of the HCl-HO azeotrope. Some solution evaporation will occur (3-4 mL).

11.3.5 Allow the sample to cool and quantitatively transfer the extract to a 100 mL volumetric flask. Dilute to volume with reagent water, stopper and mix.

11.3.6 Allow the sample extract solution to stand overnight to separate insoluble material or centrifuge a portion of the sample solution until clear. (If after centrifuging or standing overnight the extract solution contains suspended solids that would clog the nebulizer, a portion of the extract solution may be filtered for their removal prior to analysis. However, care should be exercised to avoid potential contamination from filtration.) The sample extract is now ready for analysis. Because the effects of various matrices on the stability of diluted samples cannot be characterized, all analyses should be performed as soon as possible after the completed preparation.

11.4.1 Prior to daily calibration of the instrument inspect the sample introduction system including the nebulizer, torch, injector tube and uptake tubing for salt deposits, dirt and debris that would restrict solution flow and affect instrument performance. Clean the system when needed or on a daily basis.

11.4.2 Configure the instrument system to the selected power and operating conditions as determined in Sections 10.1 and 10.2.

11.4.3 The instrument must be allowed to become thermally stable before calibration and analyses. This usually requires at least 30 to 60 minutes of operation. After instrument warmup, complete any required optical profiling or alignment particular to the instrument.

11.4.4 For initial and daily operation calibrate the instrument according to the instrument manufacturer's recommended procedures, using mixed calibration standard solutions (Section 7.9) and the calibration blank (Section 7.10.1). A peristaltic pump must be used to introduce all solutions to the nebulizer. To allow equilibrium to be reached in the plasma, aspirate all solutions for 30 seconds after reaching the plasma before beginning integration of the background corrected signal to accumulate data. When possible, use the average value of replicate integration periods of the signal to be correlated to the analyte concentration. Flush the system with the rinse blank (Section 7.10.4) for a minimum of 60 seconds (Section 4.4) between each standard. The calibration line should consist of a minimum of a calibration blank and a high standard. Replicates of the blank and highest standard provide an optimal distribution of calibration standards to minimize the confidence band for a straight-line calibration in a response region with uniform variance.

11.4.5 After completion of the initial requirements of this method (Sections 10.3 and 10.4), samples should be analyzed in the same operational manner used in the calibration routine with the rinse blank also being used between all sample solutions, LFBs, LFMs, and check solutions (Section 7.10.4).

11.4.6 During the analysis of samples, the laboratory must comply with the required quality control described in Sections 9.3 and 9.4. Only for the determination of dissolved analytes or the "direct analysis" of drinking water with turbidity of <1 NTU is the sample digestion step of the LRB, LFB, and LFM not required.

11.4.7 Determined sample analyte concentrations that are 90% or more of the upper limit of the analyte LDR must be diluted with reagent water that has been acidified in the same manner as calibration blank and reanalyzed (see Section 11.4.8). Also, for the interelement spectral interference correction routines to remain valid during sample analysis, the interferant concentration must not exceed its LDR. If the interferant LDR is exceeded, sample dilution with acidified reagent water and reanalysis is required. In these circumstances analyte detection limits are raised and determination by another approved test procedure that is either more sensitive and/or interference free is recommended.

11.4.8 When it is necessary to assess an operative matrix interference (e.g., signal reduction due to high dissolved solids), the tests described in Section 9.5 are recommended.

11.4.9 Report data as directed in Section 12.0.

11.5 If the method of standard additions (MSA) is used, standards are added at one or more levels to portions of a prepared sample. This techniquecompensates for enhancement or depression of an analyte signal by a matrix. It will not correct for additive interferences such as contamination, interelement interferences, or baseline shifts. This technique is valid in the linear range when the interference effect is constant over the range, the added analyte responds the same as the endogenous analyte, and the signal is corrected for additive interferences. The simplest version of this technique is the single-addition method. This procedure calls for two identical aliquots of the sample solution to be taken. To the first aliquot, a small volume of standard is added; while to the second aliquot, a volume of acid blank is added equal to the standard addition. The sample concentration is calculated by the following:

For more than one fortified portion of the prepared sample, linear regression analysis can be applied using a computer or calculator program to obtain the concentration of the sample solution. An alternative to using the method of standard additions is use of the internal standard technique by adding one or more elements (not in the samples and verified not to cause an uncorrected interelement spectral interference) at the same concentration (which is sufficient for optimum precision) to the prepared samples (blanks and standards) that are affected the same as the analytes by the sample matrix. Use the ratio of analyte signal to the internal standard signal for calibration and quantitation.

12.1 Sample data should be reported in units of mg/L for aqueous samples and mg/kg dry weight for solid samples.

12.2 For dissolved aqueous analytes (Section 11.1) report the data generated directly from the instrument with allowance for sample dilution. Do not report analyte concentrations below the IDL.

12.3 For total recoverable aqueous analytes (Section 11.2), multiply solution analyte concentrations by the dilution factor 0.5, when 100 mL aliquot is used to produce the 50 mL final solution, and report data as instructed in Section 12.4. If a different aliquot volume other than 100 mL is used for sample preparation, adjust the dilution factor accordingly. Also, account for any additional dilution of the prepared sample solution needed to complete the determination of analytes exceeding 90% or more of the LDR upper limit. Do not report data below the determined analyte MDL concentration or below an adjusted detection limit reflecting smaller sample aliquots used in processing or additional dilutions required to complete the analysis.

12.4 For analytes with MDLs <0.01 mg/L, round the data values to the thousandth place and report analyte concentrations up to three significant figures. For analytes with MDLs <0.01 mg/L round the data values to the 100th place and report analyte concentrations up to three significant figures. Extract concentrations for solids data should be rounded in a similar manner before calculations in Section 12.5 are performed.

12.5 For total recoverable analytes in solid samples (Section 11.3), round the solution analyte concentrations (mg/L) as instructed in Section 12.4. Report the data up to three significant figures as mg/kg dry-weight basis unless specified otherwise by the program or data user. Calculate the concentration using the equation below:

Do not report analyte data below the estimated solids MDL or an adjusted MDL because of additional dilutions required to complete the analysis.

12.6 To report percent solids in solid samples (Section 11.3) calculate as follows:

Note: If the data user, program or laboratory requires that the reported percent solids be determined by drying at 105 &#xB0;C, repeat the procedure given in Section 11.3 using a separate portion (>20 g) of the sample and dry to constant weight at 103-105 &#xB0;C.

12.7 The QC data obtained during the analyses provide an indication of the quality of the sample data and should be provided with the sample results.

13.1 Listed in Table 4 are typical single laboratory total recoverable MDLs determined for the recommended wavelengths using simultaneous ICP-AES and the operating conditions given in Table 5. The MDLs were determined in reagent blank matrix (best case situation). PTFE beakers were used to avoid boron and silica contamination from glassware with the final dilution to 50 mL completed in polypropylene centrifuged tubes. The listed MDLs for solids are estimates and were calculated from the aqueous MDL determinations.

13.2 Data obtained from single laboratory method testing are summarized in Table 6 for five types of water samples consisting of drinking water, surface water, ground water, and two wastewater effluents. The data presented cover all analytes except cerium and titanium. Samples were prepared using the procedure described in Section 11.2. For each matrix, five replicate aliquots were prepared, analyzed and the average of the five determinations used to define the sample background concentration of each analyte. In addition, two pairs of duplicates were fortified at different concentration levels. For each method analyte, the sample background concentration, mean percent recovery, standard deviation of the percent recovery, and relative percent difference between the duplicate fortified samples are listed in Table 6. The variance of the five replicate sample background determinations is included in the calculated standard deviation of the percent recovery when the analyte concentration in the sample was greater than the MDL. The tap and well waters were processed in Teflon and quartz beakers and diluted in polypropylene centrifuged tubes. The nonuse of borosilicate glassware is reflected in the precision and recovery data for boron and silica in those two sample types.

13.3 Data obtained from single laboratory method testing are summarized in Table 7 for three solid samples consisting of EPA 884 Hazardous Soil, SRM 1645 River Sediment, and EPA 286 Electroplating Sludge. Samples were prepared using the procedure described in Section 11.3. For each method analyte, the sample background concentration, mean percent recovery of the fortified additions, the standard deviation of the percent recovery, and relative percent difference between duplicate additions were determined as described in Section 13.2. Data presented are for all analytes except cerium, silica, and titanium. Limited comparative data to other methods and SRM materials are presented in Reference 23 of Section 16.0.

13.4 Performance data for aqueous solutions independent of sample preparation from a multilaboratory study are provided in Table 8.

13.5 Listed in Table 9 are regression equations for precision and bias for 25 analytes abstracted from EPA Method Study 27, a multilaboratory validation study of Method 200.7.These equations were developed from data received from 12 laboratories using the total recoverable sample preparation procedure on reagent water, drinking water, surface water and three industrial effluents. For a complete review and description of the study, see Reference 16 of Section 16.0.

14.1 Pollution prevention encompasses any technique that reduces or eliminates the quantity or toxicity of waste at the point of generation. Numerous opportunities for pollution prevention exist in laboratory operation. The EPA has established a preferred hierarchy of environmental management techniques that places pollution prevention as the management option of first choice. Whenever feasible, laboratory personnel should use pollution prevention techniques to address their waste generation (e.g., Section 7.8). When wastes cannot be feasibly reduced at the source, the Agency recommends recycling as the next best option.

14.2 For information about pollution prevention that may be applicable to laboratories and research institutions, consult "Less is Better: Laboratory Chemical Management for Waste Reduction", available from the American Chemical Society's Department of Government Relations and Science Policy, 1155 16th Street NW., Washington, DC 20036, (202) 872-4477.

15.1 The Environmental Protection Agency requires that laboratory waste management practices be conducted consistent with all applicable rules and regulations. The Agency urges laboratories to protect the air, water, and land by minimizing and controlling all releases from hoods and bench operations, complying with the letter and spirit of any sewer discharge permits and regulations, and by complying with all solid and hazardous waste regulations, particularly the hazardous waste identification rules and land disposal restrictions. For further information on waste management consult "The Waste Management Manual for Laboratory Personnel", available from the American Chemical Society at the address listed in the Section 14.2.
