
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7
###### DO NOT DRY.

7.8.6 Boron solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg B:Dissolve 5.716 g anhydrous HBO(B fraction = 0.1749), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water and dilute in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water. Transfer immediately after mixing to a clean FEP bottle to minimize any leaching of boron from the glass volumetric container. Use of a nonglass volumetric flask is recommended to avoid boron contamination from glassware.

7.8.7 Cadmium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Cd: Dissolve 1.000 g Cd metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNOwith heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask.

7.8.8 Calcium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ca: Suspend 2.498 g CaCO(Ca fraction = 0.4005), dried at 180 &#xB0;C for one hour before weighing, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water and dissolve cautiously with a minimum amount of (1 + 1) HNO. Add 10.0 mL concentrated HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.9 Cerium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ce: Slurry 1.228 g CeO(Ce fraction = 0.8141), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 100 mL concentrated HNOand evaporate to dryness. Slurry the residue in 20 mL HO, add 50 mL concentrated HNO, with heat and stirring add 60 mL 50% HOdropwise in 1 mL increments allowing periods of stirring between the 1 mL additions. Boil off excess HObefore diluting to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.10 Chromium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Cr: Dissolve 1.923 g CrO(Cr fraction = 0.5200), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 120 mL (1 + 5) HNO. When solution is complete, dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.11 Cobalt solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Co: Dissolve 1.000 g Co metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50.0 mL (1 + 1) HNO. Let solution cool and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.12 Copper solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Cu: Dissolve 1.000 g Cu metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50.0 mL (1 + 1) HNOwith heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.13 Iron solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Fe: Dissolve 1.000 g Fe metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 1) HCl, weighed accurately to four significant figures, in 100 mL (1 + 1) HCl with heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask.

7.8.14 Lead solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Pb: Dissolve 1.599 g Pb(NO)(Pb fraction = 0.6256), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in a minimum amount of (1 + 1) HNO. Add 20.0 mL (1 + 1) HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.15 Lithium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Li: Dissolve 5.324 g LiCO(Li fraction = 0.1878), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in a minimum amount of (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.16 Magnesium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Mg: Dissolve 1.000 g cleanly polished Mg ribbon, accurately weighed to at least four significant figures, in slowly added 5.0 mL (1 + 1) HCl (CAUTION: reaction is vigorous). Add 20.0 mL (1 + 1) HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.17 Manganese solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Mn: Dissolve 1.000 g of manganese metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
