
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7
###### i.e.,

8.1 Prior to the collection of an aqueous sample, consideration should be given to the type of data required, (dissolved or total recoverable), so that appropriate preservation and pretreatment steps can be taken. The pH of all aqueous samples must be tested immediately prior to aliquoting for processing or "direct analysis" to ensure the sample has been properly preserved. If properly acid preserved, the sample can be held up to six months before analysis.

8.2 For the determination of the dissolved elements, the sample must be filtered through a 0.45 µm pore diameter membrane filter at the time of collection or as soon thereafter as practically possible. (Glass or plastic filtering apparatus are recommended to avoid possible contamination. Only plastic apparatus should be used when the determinations of boron and silica are critical.) Use a portion of the filtered sample to rinse the filter flask, discard this portion and collect the required volume of filtrate. Acidify the filtrate with (1 + 1) nitric acid immediately following filtration to pH <2.

8.3 For the determination of total recoverable elements in aqueous samples, samples are not filtered, but acidified with (1 + 1) nitric acid to pH <2 (normally, 3 mL of (1 + 1) acid per liter of sample is sufficient for most ambient and drinking water samples). Preservation may be done at the time of collection, however, to avoid the hazards of strong acids in the field, transport restrictions, and possible contamination it is recommended that the samples be returned to the laboratory within two weeks of collection and acid preserved upon receipt in the laboratory. Following acidification, the sample should be mixed, held for 16 hours, and then verified to be pH <2 just prior withdrawing an aliquot for processing or "direct analysis". If for some reason such as high alkalinity the sample pH is verified to be >2, more acid must be added and the sample held for 16 hours until verified to be pH <2. See Section 8.1.

Note: When the nature of the sample is either unknown or is known to be hazardous, acidification should be done in a fume hood. See Section 5.2.

8.4 Solid samples require no preservation prior to analysis other than storage at 4 &#xB0;C. There is no established holding time limitation for solid samples.

8.5 For aqueous samples, a field blank should be prepared and analyzed as required by the data user. Use the same container and acid as used in sample collection.

9.1 Each laboratory using this method is required to operate a formal quality control (QC) program. The minimum requirements of this program consist of an initial demonstration of laboratory capability, and the periodic analysis of laboratory reagent blanks, fortified blanks and other laboratory solutions as a continuing check on performance. The laboratory is required to maintain performance records that define the quality of the data thus generated.

9.2 Initial Demonstration of Performance (mandatory).

9.2.1 The initial demonstration of performance is used to characterize instrument performance (determination of linear dynamic ranges and analysis of quality control samples) and laboratory performance (determination of method detection limits) prior to analyses conducted by this method.

9.2.2 Linear dynamic range (LDR)-The upper limit of the LDR must be established for each wavelength utilized. It must be determined from a linear calibration prepared in the normal manner using the established analytical operating procedure for the instrument. The LDR should be determined by analyzing succeedingly higher standard concentrations of the analyte until the observed analyte concentration is no more than 10% below the stated concentration of the standard. Determined LDRs must be documented and kept on file. The LDR which may be used for the analysis of samples should be judged by the analyst from the resulting data. Determined sample analyte concentrations that are greater than 90% of the determined upper LDR limit must be diluted and reanalyzed. The LDRs should be verified annually or whenever, in the judgment of the analyst, a change in analytical performance caused by either a change in instrument hardware or operating conditions would dictate they be redetermined.

9.2.3 Quality control sample (QCS)-When beginning the use of this method, on a quarterly basis, after the preparation of stock or calibration standard solutions or as required to meet data-quality needs, verify the calibration standards and acceptable instrument performance with the preparation and analyses of a QCS (Section 7.12). To verify the calibration standards the determined mean concentrations from three analyses of the QCS must be within 5% of the stated values. If the calibration standard cannot be verified, performance of the determinative step of the method is unacceptable. The source of the problem must be identified and corrected before either proceeding on with the initial determination of method detection limits or continuing with on-going analyses.

9.2.4 Method detection limit (MDL)-MDLs must be established for all wavelengths utilized, using reagent water (blank) fortified at a concentration of two to three times the estimated instrument detection limit.To determine MDL values, take seven replicate aliquots of the fortified reagent water and process through the entire analytical method. Perform all calculations defined in the method and report the concentration values in the appropriate units. Calculate the MDL as follows:

Note: If additional confirmation is desired, reanalyze the seven replicate aliquots on two more nonconsecutive days and again calculate the MDL values for each day. An average of the three MDL values for each analyte may provide for a more appropriate MDL estimate. If the relative standard deviation (RSD) from the analyses of the seven aliquots is <10%, the concentration used to determine the analyte MDL may have been inappropriately high for the determination. If so, this could result in the calculation of an unrealistically low MDL. Concurrently, determination of MDL in reagent water represents a best case situation and does not reflect possible matrix effects of real world samples. However, successful analyses of LFMs (Section 9.4) and the analyte addition test described in Section 9.5.1 can give confidence to the MDL value determined in reagent water. Typical single laboratory MDL values using this method are given in Table 4.

The MDLs must be sufficient to detect analytes at the required levels according to compliance monitoring regulation (Section 1.2). MDLs should be determined annually, when a new operator begins work or whenever, in the judgment of the analyst, a change in analytical performance caused by either a change in instrument hardware or operating conditions would dictate they be redetermined.

9.3 Assessing Laboratory Performance (mandatory)

9.3.1 Laboratory reagent blank (LRB)-The laboratory must analyze at least one LRB (Section 7.10.2) with each batch of 20 or fewer samples of the same matrix. LRB data are used to assess contamination from the laboratory environment. LRB values that exceed the MDL indicate laboratory or reagent contamination should be suspected. When LRB values constitute 10% or more of the analyte level determined for a sample or is 2.2 times the analyte MDL whichever is greater, fresh aliquots of the samples must be prepared and analyzed again for the affected analytes after the source of contamination has been corrected and acceptable LRB values have been obtained.

9.3.2 Laboratory fortified blank (LFB)-The laboratory must analyze at least one LFB (Section 7.10.3) with each batch of samples. Calculate accuracy as percent recovery using the following equation:

If the recovery of any analyte falls outside the required control limits of 85-115%, that analyte is judged out of control, and the source of the problem should be identified and resolved before continuing analyses.

9.3.3 The laboratory must use LFB analyses data to assess laboratory performance against the required control limits of 85-115% (Section 9.3.2). When sufficient internal performance data become available (usually a minimum of 20-30 analyses), optional control limits can be developed from the mean percent recovery (x) and the standard deviation (S) of the mean percent recovery. These data can be used to establish the upper and lower control limits as follows:

The optional control limits must be equal to or better than the required control limits of 85-115%. After each five to 10 new recovery measurements, new control limits can be calculated using only the most recent 20-30 data points. Also, the standard deviation (S) data should be used to establish an on-going precision statement for the level of concentrations included in the LFB. These data must be kept on file and be available for review.

9.3.4 Instrument performance check (IPC) solution-For all determinations the laboratory must analyze the IPC solution (Section 7.11) and a calibration blank immediately following daily calibration, after every 10th sample (or more frequently, if required) and at the end of the sample run. Analysis of the calibration blank should always be <the analyte IDL, but greater than the lower 3-sigma control limit of the calibration blank. Analysis of the IPC solution immediately following calibration must verify that the instrument is within 5% of calibration with a relative standard deviation <3% from replicate integrations 4. Subsequent analyses of the IPC solution must be within 10% of calibration. If the calibration cannot be verified within the specified limits, reanalyze either or both the IPC solution and the calibration blank. If the second analysis of the IPC solution or the calibration blank confirm calibration to be outside the limits, sample analysis must be discontinued, the cause determined, corrected and/or the instrument recalibrated. All samples following the last acceptable IPC solution must be reanalyzed. The analysis data of the calibration blank and IPC solution must be kept on file with the sample analyses data.

9.3.5 Spectral interference check (SIC) solution-For all determinations the laboratory must periodically verify the interelement spectral interference correction routine by analyzing SIC solutions. The preparation and required periodic analysis of SIC solutions and test criteria for verifying the interelement interference correction routine are given in Section 7.13. Special cases where on-going verification is required are described in Section 7.14.

9.4 Assessing Analyte Recovery and Data Quality.

9.4.1 Sample homogeneity and the chemical nature of the sample matrix can affect analyte recovery and the quality of the data. Taking separate aliquots from the sample for replicate and fortified analyses can in some cases assess the effect. Unless otherwise specified by the data user, laboratory or program, the following laboratory fortified matrix (LFM) procedure (Section 9.4.2) is required. Also, other tests such as the analyte addition test (Section 9.5.1) and sample dilution test (Section 9.5.2) can indicate if matrix effects are operative.

9.4.2 The laboratory must add a known amount of each analyte to a minimum of 10% of the routine samples. In each case the LFM aliquot must be a duplicate of the aliquot used for sample analysis and for total recoverable determinations added prior to sample preparation. For water samples, the added analyte concentration must be the same as that used in the laboratory fortified blank (Section 7.10.3). For solid samples, however, the concentration added should be expressed as mg/kg and is calculated for a one gram aliquot by multiplying the added analyte concentration (mg/L) in solution by the conversion factor 100 (mg/L x 0.1L/0.001kg = 100, Section 12.5). (For notes on Ag, Ba, and Sn see Sections 1.7 and 1.8.) Over time, samples from all routine sample sources should be fortified.

Note: The concentration of calcium, magnesium, sodium and strontium in environmental waters, along with iron and aluminum in solids can vary greatly and are not necessarily predictable. Fortifying these analytes in routine samples at the same concentration used for the LFB may prove to be of little use in assessing data quality for these analytes. For these analytes sample dilution and reanalysis using the criteria given in Section 9.5.2 is recommended. Also, if specified by the data user, laboratory or program, samples can be fortified at higher concentrations, but even major constituents should be limited to <25 mg/L so as not to alter the sample matrix and affect the analysis.

9.4.3 Calculate the percent recovery for each analyte, corrected for background concentrations measured in the unfortified sample, and compare these values to the designated LFM recovery range of 70-130% or a 3-sigma recovery range calculated from the regression equations given in Table 9.Recovery calculations are not required if the concentration added is less than 30% of the sample background concentration. Percent recovery may be calculated in units appropriate to the matrix, using the following equation:

9.4.4 If the recovery of any analyte falls outside the designated LFM recovery range, and the laboratory performance for that analyte is shown to be in control (Section 9.3), the recovery problem encountered with the fortified sample is judged to be matrix related, not system related. The data user should be informed that the result for that analyte in the unfortified sample is suspect due to either the heterogeneous nature of the sample or matrix effects and analysis by method of standard addition or the use of an internal standard(s) (Section 11.5) should be considered.

9.4.5 Where reference materials are available, they should be analyzed to provide additional performance data. The analysis of reference samples is a valuable tool for demonstrating the ability to perform the method acceptably. Reference materials containing high concentrations of analytes can provide additional information on the performance of the spectral interference correction routine.

9.5 Assess the possible need for the method of standard additions (MSA) or internal standard elements by the following tests. Directions for using MSA or internal standard(s) are given in Section 11.5.

9.5.1 Analyte addition test: An analyte(s) standard added to a portion of a prepared sample, or its dilution, should be recovered to within 85% to 115% of the known value. The analyte(s) addition should produce a minimum level of 20 times and a maximum of 100 times the method detection limit. If the analyte addition is <20% of the sample analyte concentration, the following dilution test should be used. If recovery of the analyte(s) is not within the specified limits, a matrix effect should be suspected, and the associated data flagged accordingly. The method of additions or the use of an appropriate internal standard element may provide more accurate data.

9.5.2 Dilution test: If the analyte concentration is sufficiently high (minimally, a factor of 50 above the instrument detection limit in the original solution but <90% of the linear limit), an analysis of a 1 + 4 dilution should agree (after correction for the fivefold dilution) within 10% of the original determination. If not, a chemical or physical interference effect should be suspected and the associated data flagged accordingly. The method of standard additions or the use of an internal-standard element may provide more accurate data for samples failing this test.

10.1 Specific wavelengths are listed in Table 1. Other wavelengths may be substituted if they can provide the needed sensitivity and are corrected for spectral interference. However, because of the difference among various makes and models of spectrometers, specific instrument operating conditions cannot be given. The instrument and operating conditions utilized for determination must be capable of providing data of acceptable quality to the program and data user. The analyst should follow the instructions provided by the instrument manufacturer unless other conditions provide similar or better performance for a task. Operating conditions for aqueous solutions usually vary from 1100-1200 watts forward power, 15-16 mm viewing height, 15-19 L/min. argon coolant flow, 0.6-1 L/min. argon aerosol flow, 1-1.8 mL/min. sample pumping rate with a one minute preflush time and measurement time near 1 s per wavelength peak (for sequential instruments) and near 10 s per sample (for simultaneous instruments). Use of the Cu/Mn intensity ratio at 324.754 nm and 257.610 nm (by adjusting the argon aerosol flow) has been recommended as a way to achieve repeatable interference correction factors.

10.2 Prior to using this method optimize the plasma operating conditions. The following procedure is recommended for vertically configured plasmas. The purpose of plasma optimization is to provide a maximum signal-to-background ratio for the least sensitive element in the analytical array. The use of a mass flow controller to regulate the nebulizer gas flow rate greatly facilitates the procedure.

10.2.1 Ignite the plasma and select an appropriate incident rf power with minimum reflected power. Allow the instrument to become thermally stable before beginning. This usually requires at least 30 to 60 minutes of operation. While aspirating the 1000 µg/mL solution of yttrium (Section 7.8.32), follow the instrument manufacturer's instructions and adjust the aerosol carrier gas flow rate through the nebulizer so a definitive blue emission region of the plasma extends approximately from 5-20 mm above the top of the work coil.Record the nebulizer gas flow rate or pressure setting for future reference.

10.2.2 After establishing the nebulizer gas flow rate, determine the solution uptake rate of the nebulizer in mL/min. by aspirating a known volume calibration blank for a period of at least three minutes. Divide the spent volume by the aspiration time (in minutes) and record the uptake rate. Set the peristaltic pump to deliver the uptake rate in a steady even flow.

10.2.3 After horizontally aligning the plasma and/or optically profiling the spectrometer, use the selected instrument conditions from Sections 10.2.1 and 10.2.2, and aspirate the plasma solution (Section 7.15), containing 10 µg/mL each of As, Pb, Se and Tl. Collect intensity data at the wavelength peak for each analyte at 1 mm intervals from 14-18 mm above the top of the work coil. (This region of the plasma is commonly referred to as the analytical zone.)Repeat the process using the calibration blank. Determine the net signal to blank intensity ratio for each analyte for each viewing height setting. Choose the height for viewing the plasma that provides the largest intensity ratio for the least sensitive element of the four analytes. If more than one position provides the same ratio, select the position that provides the highest net intensity counts for the least sensitive element or accept a compromise position of the intensity ratios of all four analytes.

10.2.4 The instrument operating condition finally selected as being optimum should provide the lowest reliable instrument detection limits and method detection limits. Refer to Tables 1 and 4 for comparison of IDLs and MDLs, respectively.

10.2.5 If either the instrument operating conditions, such as incident power and/or nebulizer gas flow rate are changed, or a new torch injector tube having a different orifice i.d. is installed, the plasma and plasma viewing height should be reoptimized.

10.2.6 Before daily calibration and after the instrument warmup period, the nebulizer gas flow must be reset to the determined optimized flow. If a mass flow controller is being used, it should be reset to the recorded optimized flow rate. In order to maintain valid spectral interelement correction routines the nebulizer gas flow rate should be the same from day-to-day (<2% change). The change in signal intensity with a change in nebulizer gas flow rate for both "hard" (Pb 220.353 nm) and "soft" (Cu 324.754) lines is illustrated in Figure 1.

10.3 Before using the procedure (Section 11.0) to analyze samples, there must be data available documenting initial demonstration of performance. The required data and procedure is described in Section 9.2. This data must be generated using the same instrument operating conditions and calibration routine (Section 11.4) to be used for sample analysis. These documented data must be kept on file and be available for review by the data user.

10.4 After completing the initial demonstration of performance, but before analyzing samples, the laboratory must establish and initially verify an interelement spectral interference correction routine to be used during sample analysis. A general description concerning spectral interference and the analytical requirements for background correction and for correction of interelement spectral interference in particular are given in Section 4.1. To determine the appropriate location for background correction and to establish the interelement interference correction routine, repeated spectral scan about the analyte wavelength and repeated analyses of the single element solutions may be required. Criteria for determining an interelement spectral interference is an apparent positive or negative concentration on the analyte that is outside the 3-sigma control limits of the calibration blank for the analyte. (The upper-control limit is the analyte IDL.) Once established, the entire routine must be initially and periodically verified annually, or whenever there is a change in instrument operating conditions (Section 10.2.5). Only a portion of the correction routine must be verified more frequently or on a daily basis. Test criteria and required solutions are described in Section 7.13. Initial and periodic verification data of the routine should be kept on file. Special cases where on-going verification are required is described in Section 7.14.

11.1.1 For the determination of dissolved analytes in ground and surface waters, pipet an aliquot (20 mL) of the filtered, acid preserved sample into a 50 mL polypropylene centrifuge tube. Add an appropriate volume of (1 + 1) nitric acid to adjust the acid concentration of the aliquot to approximate a 1% (v/v) nitric acid solution (e.g., add 0.4 mL (1 + 1) HNOto a 20 mL aliquot of sample). Cap the tube and mix. The sample is now ready for analysis (Section 1.3). Allowance for sample dilution should be made in the calculations. (If mercury is to be determined, a separate aliquot must be additionally acidified to contain 1% (v/v) HCl to match the signal response of mercury in the calibration standard and reduce memory interference effects. Section 1.9).

11.2.1 For the "direct analysis" of total recoverable analytes in drinking water samples containing turbidity <1 NTU, treat an unfiltered acid preserved sample aliquot using the sample preparation procedure described in Section 11.1.1 while making allowance for sample dilution in the data calculation (Section 1.2). For the determination of total recoverable analytes in all other aqueous samples or for preconcentrating drinking water samples prior to analysis follow the procedure given in Sections 11.2.2 through 11.2.7.

11.2.2 For the determination of total recoverable analytes in aqueous samples (other than drinking water with <1 NTU turbidity), transfer a 100 mL (1 mL) aliquot from a well mixed, acid preserved sample to a 250 mL Griffin beaker (Sections 1.2, 1.3, 1.6, 1.7, 1.8, and 1.9). (When necessary, smaller sample aliquot volumes may be used.)

11.2.3 Add 2 mL (1 + 1) nitric acid and 1.0 mL of (1 + 1) hydrochloric acid to the beaker containing the measured volume of sample. Place the beaker on the hot plate for solution evaporation. The hot plate should be located in a fume hood and previously adjusted to provide evaporation at a temperature of approximately but no higher than 85 &#xB0;C. (See the following note.) The beaker should be covered with an elevated watch glass or other necessary steps should be taken to prevent sample contamination from the fume hood environment.
