
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7
###### DO NOT DRY.

7.8.24 Silica solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg SiO:Dissolve 2.964 g (NH)SiF, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL (1 + 20) HCl with heating at 85 &#xB0;C to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.25 Silver solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ag: Dissolve 1.000 g Ag metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 80 mL (1 + 1) HNOwith heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask. Store solution in amber bottle or wrap bottle completely with aluminum foil to protect solution from light.

7.8.26 Sodium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Na: Dissolve 2.542 g NaCl (Na fraction = 0.3934), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water. Add 10.0 mL concentrated HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.27 Strontium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Sr: Dissolve 1.685 g SrCO(Sr fraction = 0.5935), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL reagent water with dropwise addition of 100 mL (1 + 1) HCl. Dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.28 Thallium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Tl: Dissolve 1.303 g TlNO(Tl fraction = 0.7672), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water. Add 10.0 mL concentrated HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.29 Tin solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Sn: Dissolve 1.000 g Sn shot, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in an acid mixture of 10.0 mL concentrated HCl and 2.0 mL (1 + 1) HNOwith heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool, add 200 mL concentrated HCl, and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
