
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7

1.1 Inductively coupled plasma-atomic emission spectrometry (ICP-AES) is used to determine metals and some nonmetals in solution. This method is a consolidation of existing methods for water, wastewater, and solid wastes.(For analysis of petroleum products see References 5 and 6, Section 16.0). This method is applicable to the following analytes:

1.2 For reference where this method is approved for use in compliance monitoring programs [e.g., Clean Water Act (NPDES) or Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA)] consult both the appropriate sections of the Code of Federal Regulation (40 CFR Part 136 Table 1B for NPDES, and Part 141 § 141.23 for drinking water), and the latestannouncements.

1.3 ICP-AES can be used to determine dissolved analytes in aqueous samples after suitable filtration and acid preservation. To reduce potential interferences, dissolved solids should be <0.2% (w/v) (Section 4.2).

1.4 With the exception of silver, where this method is approved for the determination of certain metal and metalloid contaminants in drinking water, samples may be analyzed directly by pneumatic nebulization without acid digestion if the sample has been properly preserved with acid and has turbidity of <1 NTU at the time of analysis. This total recoverable determination procedure is referred to as "direct analysis". However, in the determination of some primary drinking water metal contaminants, preconcentration of the sample may be required prior to analysis in order to meet drinking water acceptance performance criteria (Sections 11.2.2 through 11.2.7).

1.5 For the determination of total recoverable analytes in aqueous and solid samples a digestion/extraction is required prior to analysis when the elements are not in solution (e.g., soils, sludges, sediments and aqueous samples that may contain particulate and suspended solids). Aqueous samples containing suspended or particulate material 1% (w/v) should be extracted as a solid type sample.

1.6 When determining boron and silica in aqueous samples, only plastic, PTFE or quartz labware should be used from time of sample collection to completion of analysis. For accurate determination of boron in solid samples only quartz or PTFE beakers should be used during acid extraction with immediate transfer of an extract aliquot to a plastic centrifuge tube following dilution of the extract to volume. When possible, borosilicate glass should be avoided to prevent contamination of these analytes.

1.7 Silver is only slightly soluble in the presence of chloride unless there is a sufficient chloride concentration to form the soluble chloride complex. Therefore, low recoveries of silver may occur in samples, fortified sample matrices and even fortified blanks if determined as a dissolved analyte or by "direct analysis" where the sample has not been processed using the total recoverable mixed acid digestion. For this reason it is recommended that samples be digested prior to the determination of silver. The total recoverable sample digestion procedure given in this method is suitable for the determination of silver in aqueous samples containing concentrations up to 0.1 mg/L. For the analysis of wastewater samples containing higher concentrations of silver, succeeding smaller volume, well mixed aliquots should be prepared until the analysis solution contains <0.1 mg/L silver. The extraction of solid samples containing concentrations of silver >50 mg/kg should be treated in a similar manner. Also, the extraction of tin from solid samples should be prepared again using aliquots <1 g when determined sample concentrations exceed 1%.

1.8 The total recoverable sample digestion procedure given in this method will solubilize and hold in solution only minimal concentrations of barium in the presence of free sulfate. For the analysis of barium in samples having varying and unknown concentrations of sulfate, analysis should be completed as soon as possible after sample preparation.

1.9 The total recoverable sample digestion procedure given in this method is not suitable for the determination of volatile organo-mercury compounds. However, if digestion is not required (turbidity <1 NTU), the combined concentrations of inorganic and organo-mercury in solution can be determined by "direct analysis" pneumatic nebulization provided the sample solution is adjusted to contain the same mixed acid (HNO+ HCl) matrix as the total recoverable calibration standards and blank solutions.

1.10 Detection limits and linear ranges for the elements will vary with the wavelength selected, the spectrometer, and the matrices. Table 1 provides estimated instrument detection limits for the listed wavelengths.However, actual method detection limits and linear working ranges will be dependent on the sample matrix, instrumentation, and selected operating conditions.

1.11 Users of the method data should state the data-quality objectives prior to analysis. Users of the method must document and have on file the required initial demonstration performance data described in Section 9.2 prior to using the method for analysis.

2.1 An aliquot of a well mixed, homogeneous aqueous or solid sample is accurately weighed or measured for sample processing. For total recoverable analysis of a solid or an aqueous sample containing undissolved material, analytes are first solubilized by gentle refluxing with nitric and hydrochloric acids. After cooling, the sample is made up to volume, is mixed and centrifuged or allowed to settle overnight prior to analysis. For the determination of dissolved analytes in a filtered aqueous sample aliquot, or for the "direct analysis" total recoverable determination of analytes in drinking water where sample turbidity is <1 NTU, the sample is made ready for analysis by the appropriate addition of nitric acid, and then diluted to a predetermined volume and mixed before analysis.

2.2 The analysis described in this method involves multielemental determinations by ICP-AES using sequential or simultaneous instruments. The instruments measure characteristic atomic-line emission spectra by optical spectrometry. Samples are nebulized and the resulting aerosol is transported to the plasma torch. Element specific emission spectra are produced by a radio-frequency inductively coupled plasma. The spectra are dispersed by a grating spectrometer, and the intensities of the line spectra are monitored at specific wavelengths by a photosensitive device. Photocurrents from the photosensitive device are processed and controlled by a computer system. A background correction technique is required to compensate for variable background contribution to the determination of the analytes. Background must be measured adjacent to the analyte wavelength during analysis. Various interferences must be considered and addressed appropriately as discussed in Sections 4.0, 7.0, 9.0, 10.0, and 11.0.

3.1 Calibration Blank-A volume of reagent water acidified with the same acid matrix as in the calibration standards. The calibration blank is a zero standard and is used to calibrate the ICP instrument (Section 7.10.1).

3.2 Calibration Standard (CAL)-A solution prepared from the dilution of stock standard solutions. The CAL solutions are used to calibrate the instrument response with respect to analyte concentration (Section 7.9).

3.3 Dissolved Analyte-The concentration of analyte in an aqueous sample that will pass through a 0.45 µm membrane filter assembly prior to sample acidification (Section 11.1).

3.4 Field Reagent Blank (FRB)-An aliquot of reagent water or other blank matrix that is placed in a sample container in the laboratory and treated as a sample in all respects, including shipment to the sampling site, exposure to the sampling site conditions, storage, preservation, and all analytical procedures. The purpose of the FRB is to determine if method analytes or other interferences are present in the field environment (Section 8.5).

3.5 Instrument Detection Limit (IDL)-The concentration equivalent to the analyte signal which is equal to three times the standard deviation of a series of 10 replicate measurements of the calibration blank signal at the same wavelength (Table 1.).

3.6 Instrument Performance Check (IPC) Solution-A solution of method analytes, used to evaluate the performance of the instrument system with respect to a defined set of method criteria (Sections 7.11 and 9.3.4).

3.7 Internal Standard-Pure analyte(s) added to a sample, extract, or standard solution in known amount(s) and used to measure the relative responses of other method analytes that are components of the same sample or solution. The internal standard must be an analyte that is not a sample component (Section 11.5).

3.8 Laboratory Duplicates (LD1 and LD2)-Two aliquots of the same sample taken in the laboratory and analyzed separately with identical procedures. Analyses of LD1 and LD2 indicate precision associated with laboratory procedures, but not with sample collection, preservation, or storage procedures.

3.9 Laboratory Fortified Blank (LFB)-An aliquot of LRB to which known quantities of the method analytes are added in the laboratory. The LFB is analyzed exactly like a sample, and its purpose is to determine whether the methodology is in control and whether the laboratory is capable of making accurate and precise measurements (Sections 7.10.3 and 9.3.2).

3.10 Laboratory Fortified Sample Matrix (LFM)-An aliquot of an environmental sample to which known quantities of the method analytes are added in the laboratory. The LFM is analyzed exactly like a sample, and its purpose is to determine whether the sample matrix contributes bias to the analytical results. The background concentrations of the analytes in the sample matrix must be determined in a separate aliquot and the measured values in the LFM corrected for background concentrations (Section 9.4).

3.11 Laboratory Reagent Blank (LRB)-An aliquot of reagent water or other blank matrices that are treated exactly as a sample including exposure to all glassware, equipment, solvents, reagents, and internal standards that are used with other samples. The LRB is used to determine if method analytes or other interferences are present in the laboratory environment, reagents, or apparatus (Sections 7.10.2 and 9.3.1).

3.12 Linear Dynamic Range (LDR)-The concentration range over which the instrument response to an analyte is linear (Section 9.2.2).

3.13 Method Detection Limit (MDL)-The minimum concentration of an analyte that can be identified, measured, and reported with 99% confidence that the analyte concentration is greater than zero (Section 9.2.4 and Table 4.).

3.14 Plasma Solution-A solution that is used to determine the optimum height above the work coil for viewing the plasma (Sections 7.15 and 10.2.3).

3.15 Quality Control Sample (QCS)-A solution of method analytes of known concentrations which is used to fortify an aliquot of LRB or sample matrix. The QCS is obtained from a source external to the laboratory and different from the source of calibration standards. It is used to check either laboratory or instrument performance (Sections 7.12 and 9.2.3).

3.16 Solid Sample-For the purpose of this method, a sample taken from material classified as soil, sediment or sludge.

3.17 Spectral Interference Check (SIC) Solution-A solution of selected method analytes of higher concentrations which is used to evaluate the procedural routine for correcting known interelement spectral interferences with respect to a defined set of method criteria (Sections 7.13, 7.14 and 9.3.5).

3.18 Standard Addition-The addition of a known amount of analyte to the sample in order to determine the relative response of the detector to an analyte within the sample matrix. The relative response is then used to assess either an operative matrix effect or the sample analyte concentration (Sections 9.5.1 and 11.5).

3.19 Stock Standard Solution-A concentrated solution containing one or more method analytes prepared in the laboratory using assayed reference materials or purchased from a reputable commercial source (Section 7.8).

3.20 Total Recoverable Analyte-The concentration of analyte determined either by "direct analysis" of an unfiltered acid preserved drinking water sample with turbidity of <1 NTU (Section 11.2.1), or by analysis of the solution extract of a solid sample or an unfiltered aqueous sample following digestion by refluxing with hot dilute mineral acid(s) as specified in the method (Sections 11.2 and 11.3).

3.21 Water Sample-For the purpose of this method, a sample taken from one of the following sources: drinking, surface, ground, storm runoff, industrial or domestic wastewater.

4.1 Spectral interferences are caused by background emission from continuous or recombination phenomena, stray light from the line emission of high concentration elements, overlap of a spectral line from another element, or unresolved overlap of molecular band spectra.

4.1.1 Background emission and stray light can usually be compensated for by subtracting the background emission determined by measurement(s) adjacent to the analyte wavelength peak. Spectral scans of samples or single element solutions in the analyte regions may indicate not only when alternate wavelengths are desirable because of severe spectral interference, but also will show whether the most appropriate estimate of the background emission is provided by an interpolation from measurements on both sides of the wavelength peak or by the measured emission on one side or the other. The location(s) selected for the measurement of background intensity will be determined by the complexity of the spectrum adjacent to the wavelength peak. The location(s) used for routine measurement must be free of off-line spectral interference (interelement or molecular) or adequately corrected to reflect the same change in background intensity as occurs at the wavelength peak.

4.1.2 Spectral overlaps may be avoided by using an alternate wavelength or can be compensated for by equations that correct for interelement contributions, which involves measuring the interfering elements. Some potential on-line spectral interferences observed for the recommended wavelengths are given in Table 2. When operative and uncorrected, these interferences will produce false-positive determinations and be reported as analyte concentrations. The interferences listed are only those that occur between method analytes. Only interferences of a direct overlap nature that were observed with a single instrument having a working resolution of 0.035 nm are listed. More extensive information on interferant effects at various wavelengths and resolutions is available in Boumans' Tables.Users may apply interelement correction factors determined on their instruments within tested concentration ranges to compensate (off-line or on-line) for the effects of interfering elements.

4.1.3 When interelement corrections are applied, there is a need to verify their accuracy by analyzing spectral interference check solutions as described in Section 7.13. Interelement corrections will vary for the same emission line among instruments because of differences in resolution, as determined by the grating plus the entrance and exit slit widths, and by the order of dispersion. Interelement corrections will also vary depending upon the choice of background correction points. Selecting a background correction point where an interfering emission line may appear should be avoided when practical. Interelement corrections that constitute a major portion of an emission signal may not yield accurate data. Users should not forget that some samples may contain uncommon elements that could contribute spectral interferences.

4.1.4 The interference effects must be evaluated for each individual instrument whether configured as a sequential or simultaneous instrument. For each instrument, intensities will vary not only with optical resolution but also with operating conditions (such as power, viewing height and argon flow rate). When using the recommended wavelengths given in Table 1, the analyst is required to determine and document for each wavelength the effect from the known interferences given in Table 2, and to utilize a computer routine for their automatic correction on all analyses. To determine the appropriate location for off-line background correction, the user must scan the area on either side adjacent to the wavelength and record the apparent emission intensity from all other method analytes. This spectral information must be documented and kept on file. The location selected for background correction must be either free of off-line interelement spectral interference or a computer routine must be used for their automatic correction on all determinations. If a wavelength other than the recommended wavelength is used, the user must determine and document both the on-line and off-line spectral interference effect from all method analytes and provide for their automatic correction on all analyses. Tests to determine the spectral interference must be done using analyte concentrations that will adequately describe the interference. Normally, 100 mg/L single element solutions are sufficient, however, for analytes such as iron that may be found at high concentration a more appropriate test would be to use a concentration near the upper LDR limit. See Section 10.4 for required spectral interference test criteria.

4.1.5 When interelement corrections are not used, either on-going SIC solutions (Section 7.14) must be analyzed to verify the absence of interelement spectral interference or a computer software routine must be employed for comparing the determinative data to limits files for notifying the analyst when an interfering element is detected in the sample at a concentration that will produce either an apparent false positive concentration, greater than the analyte IDL, or false negative analyte concentration, less than the 99% lower control limit of the calibration blank. When the interference accounts for 10% or more of the analyte concentration, either an alternate wavelength free of interference or another approved test procedure must be used to complete the analysis. For example, the copper peak at 213.853 nm could be mistaken for the zinc peak at 213.856 nm in solutions with high copper and low zinc concentrations. For this example, a spectral scan in the 213.8 nm region would not reveal the misidentification because a single peak near the zinc location would be observed. The possibility of this misidentification of copper for the zinc peak at 213.856 nm can be identified by measuring the copper at another emission line, e.g., 324.754 nm. Users should be aware that, depending upon the instrumental resolution, alternate wavelengths with adequate sensitivity and freedom from interference may not be available for all matrices. In these circumstances the analyte must be determined using another approved test procedure.

4.2 Physical interferences are effects associated with the sample nebulization and transport processes. Changes in viscosity and surface tension can cause significant inaccuracies, especially in samples containing high dissolved solids or high acid concentrations. If physical interferences are present, they must be reduced by such means as a high-solids nebulizer, diluting the sample, using a peristaltic pump, or using an appropriate internal standard element. Another problem that can occur with high dissolved solids is salt buildup at the tip of the nebulizer, which affects aerosol flow rate and causes instrumental drift. This problem can be controlled by a high-solids nebulizer, wetting the argon prior to nebulization, using a tip washer, or diluting the sample. Also, it has been reported that better control of the argon flow rates, especially for the nebulizer, improves instrument stability and precision; this is accomplished with the use of mass flow controllers.

4.3 Chemical interferences include molecular-compound formation, ionization effects, and solute-vaporization effects. Normally, these effects are not significant with the ICP-AES technique. If observed, they can be minimized by careful selection of operating conditions (such as incident power and observation height), by buffering of the sample, by matrix matching, and by standard-addition procedures. Chemical interferences are highly dependent on matrix type and the specific analyte element.

4.4 Memory interferences result when analytes in a previous sample contribute to the signals measured in a new sample. Memory effects can result from sample deposition on the uptake tubing to the nebulizer, and from the buildup of sample material in the plasma torch and spray chamber. The site where these effects occur is dependent on the element and can be minimized by flushing the system with a rinse blank between samples (Section 7.10.4). The possibility of memory interferences should be recognized within an analytical run and suitable rinse times should be used to reduce them. The rinse times necessary for a particular element must be estimated prior to analysis. This may be achieved by aspirating a standard containing elements corresponding to either their LDR or a concentration ten times those usually encountered. The aspiration time should be the same as a normal sample analysis period, followed by analysis of the rinse blank at designated intervals. The length of time required to reduce analyte signals to within a factor of two of the method detection limit, should be noted. Until the required rinse time is established, this method requires a rinse period of at least 60 seconds between samples and standards. If a memory interference is suspected, the sample must be re-analyzed after a long rinse period.

5.1 The toxicity or carcinogenicity of each reagent used in this method have not been fully established. Each chemical should be regarded as a potential health hazard and exposure to these compounds should be as low as reasonably achievable. Each laboratory is responsible for maintaining a current awareness file of OSHA regulations regarding the safe handling of the chemicals specified in this method.A reference file of material data handling sheets should also be made available to all personnel involved in the chemical analysis. Specifically, concentrated nitric and hydrochloric acids present various hazards and are moderately toxic and extremely irritating to skin and mucus membranes. Use these reagents in a fume hood whenever possible and if eye or skin contact occurs, flush with large volumes of water. Always wear safety glasses or a shield for eye protection, protective clothing and observe proper mixing when working with these reagents.

5.2 The acidification of samples containing reactive materials may result in the release of toxic gases, such as cyanides or sulfides. Acidification of samples should be done in a fume hood.

5.3 All personnel handling environmental samples known to contain or to have been in contact with human waste should be immunized against known disease causative agents.

5.4 The inductively coupled plasma should only be viewed with proper eye protection from the ultraviolet emissions.

5.5 It is the responsibility of the user of this method to comply with relevant disposal and waste regulations. For guidance see Sections 14.0 and 15.0.

6.1 Inductively coupled plasma emission spectrometer:

6.1.1 Computer-controlled emission spectrometer with background-correction capability.

6.1.2 Radio-frequency generator compliant with FCC regulations.

6.1.3 Argon gas supply-High purity grade (99.99%). When analyses are conducted frequently, liquid argon is more economical and requires less frequent replacement of tanks than compressed argon in conventional cylinders.

6.1.4 A variable speed peristaltic pump is required to deliver both standard and sample solutions to the nebulizer.

6.1.5 (Optional) Mass flow controllers to regulate the argon flow rates, especially the aerosol transport gas, are highly recommended. Their use will provide more exacting control of reproducible plasma conditions.

6.2 Analytical balance, with capability to measure to 0.1 mg, for use in weighing solids, for preparing standards, and for determining dissolved solids in digests or extracts.

6.3 A temperature adjustable hot plate capable of maintaining a temperature of 95 &#xB0;C.

6.4 (Optional) A temperature adjustable block digester capable of maintaining a temperature of 95 &#xB0;C and equipped with 250 mL constricted digestion tubes.

6.5 (Optional) A steel cabinet centrifuge with guard bowl, electric timer and brake.

6.6 A gravity convection drying oven with thermostatic control capable of maintaining 180 &#xB0;C +/-5 &#xB0;C.

6.7 (Optional) An air displacement pipetter capable of delivering volumes ranging from 0.1-2500 µL with an assortment of high quality disposable pipet tips.

6.8 Mortar and pestle, ceramic or nonmetallic material.

6.9 Polypropylene sieve, 5-mesh (4 mm opening).

6.10 Labware-For determination of trace levels of elements, contamination and loss are of prime consideration. Potential contamination sources include improperly cleaned laboratory apparatus and general contamination within the laboratory environment from dust, etc. A clean laboratory work area designated for trace element sample handling must be used. Sample containers can introduce positive and negative errors in the determination of trace elements by contributing contaminants through surface desorption or leaching, or depleting element concentrations through adsorption processes. All reusable labware (glass, quartz, polyethylene, PTFE, FEP, etc.) should be sufficiently clean for the task objectives. Several procedures found to provide clean labware include washing with a detergent solution, rinsing with tap water, soaking for four hours or more in 20% (v/v) nitric acid or a mixture of HNOand HCl (1 + 2 + 9), rinsing with reagent water and storing clean.Chromic acid cleaning solutions must be avoided because chromium is an analyte.

6.10.1 Glassware-Volumetric flasks, graduated cylinders, funnels and centrifuge tubes (glass and/or metal-free plastic).

6.10.2 Assorted calibrated pipettes.

6.10.3 Conical Phillips beakers (Corning 1080-250 or equivalent), 250 mL with 50 mm watch glasses.

6.10.4 Griffin beakers, 250 mL with 75 mm watch glasses and (optional) 75 mm ribbed watch glasses.

6.10.5 (Optional) PTFE and/or quartz Griffin beakers, 250 mL with PTFE covers.

6.10.6 Evaporating dishes or high-form crucibles, porcelain, 100 mL capacity.

6.10.7 Narrow-mouth storage bottles, FEP (fluorinated ethylene propylene) with screw closure, 125 mL to 1 L capacities.

6.10.8 One-piece stem FEP wash bottle with screw closure, 125 mL capacity.

7.1 Reagents may contain elemental impurities which might affect analytical data. Only high-purity reagents that conform to the American Chemical Society specificationsshould be used whenever possible. If the purity of a reagent is in question, analyze for contamination. All acids used for this method must be of ultra high-purity grade or equivalent. Suitable acids are available from a number of manufacturers. Redistilled acids prepared by sub-boiling distillation are acceptable.

7.2 Hydrochloric acid, concentrated (sp.gr. 1.19)-HCl.

7.2.1 Hydrochloric acid (1 + 1)-Add 500 mL concentrated HCl to 400 mL reagent water and dilute to 1 L.

7.2.2 Hydrochloric acid (1 + 4)-Add 200 mL concentrated HCl to 400 mL reagent water and dilute to 1 L.

7.2.3 Hydrochloric acid (1 + 20)-Add 10 mL concentrated HCl to 200 mL reagent water.

7.3 Nitric acid, concentrated (sp.gr. 1.41)-HNO.

7.3.1 Nitric acid (1 + 1)-Add 500 mL concentrated HNOto 400 mL reagent water and dilute to 1 L.

7.3.2 Nitric acid (1 + 2)-Add 100 mL concentrated HNOto 200 mL reagent water.

7.3.3 Nitric acid (1 + 5)-Add 50 mL concentrated HNOto 250 mL reagent water.

7.3.4 Nitric acid (1 + 9)-Add 10 mL concentrated HNOto 90 mL reagent water.

7.4 Reagent water. All references to water in this method refer to ASTM Type I grade water.

7.5 Ammonium hydroxide, concentrated (sp.gr. 0.902).

7.6 Tartaric acid, ACS reagent grade.

7.7 Hydrogen peroxide, 50%, stabilized certified reagent grade.

7.8 Standard Stock Solutions-Stock standards may be purchased or prepared from ultra-high purity grade chemicals (99.99-99.999% pure). All compounds must be dried for one hour at 105 &#xB0;C, unless otherwise specified. It is recommended that stock solutions be stored in FEP bottles. Replace stock standards when succeeding dilutions for preparation of calibration standards cannot be verified.

CAUTION: Many of these chemicals are extremely toxic if inhaled or swallowed (Section 5.1). Wash hands thoroughly after handling.

Typical stock solution preparation procedures follow for 1 L quantities, but for the purpose of pollution prevention, the analyst is encouraged to prepare smaller quantities when possible. Concentrations are calculated based upon the weight of the pure element or upon the weight of the compound multiplied by the fraction of the analyte in the compound

From pure element,

7.8.1 Aluminum solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Al: Dissolve 1.000 g of aluminum metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in an acid mixture of 4.0 mL of (1 + 1) HCl and 1 mL of concentrated HNOin a beaker. Warm beaker slowly to effect solution. When dissolution is complete, transfer solution quantitatively to a 1 L flask, add an additional 10.0 mL of (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume with reagent water.

7.8.2 Antimony solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Sb: Dissolve 1.000 g of antimony powder, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 20.0 mL (1 + 1) HNOand 10.0 mL concentrated HCl. Add 100 mL reagent water and 1.50 g tartaric acid. Warm solution slightly to effect complete dissolution. Cool solution and add reagent water to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask.

7.8.3 Arsenic solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg As: Dissolve 1.320 g of AsO(As fraction = 0.7574), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 100 mL of reagent water containing 10.0 mL concentrated NHOH. Warm the solution gently to effect dissolution. Acidify the solution with 20.0 mL concentrated HNOand dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.4 Barium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ba: Dissolve 1.437 g BaCO(Ba fraction = 0.6960), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 150 mL (1 + 2) HNOwith heating and stirring to degas and dissolve compound. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in 1 L volumetric flask.
