
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7
###### DO NOT DRY.

7.8.30 Titanium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ti:Dissolve 6.138 g (NH)TiO(CO)-HO (Ti fraction = 0.1629), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 100 mL reagent water. Dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.31 Vanadium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg V: Dissolve 1.000 g V metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNOwith heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask.

7.8.32 Yttrium solution, stock 1 mL = 1000 µg Y: Dissolve 1.270 g YO(Y fraction = 0.7875), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNO, heating to effect dissolution. Cool and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.33 Zinc solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Zn: Dissolve 1.000 g Zn metal, acid cleaned with (1 + 9) HNO, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 50 mL (1 + 1) HNOwith heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask.

7.9 Mixed Calibration Standard Solutions-For the analysis of total recoverable digested samples prepare mixed calibration standard solutions (see Table 3) by combining appropriate volumes of the stock solutions in 500 mL volumetric flasks containing 20 mL (1 + 1) HNOand 20 mL (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume with reagent water. Prior to preparing the mixed standards, each stock solution should be analyzed separately to determine possible spectral interferences or the presence of impurities. Care should be taken when preparing the mixed standards to ensure that the elements are compatible and stable together. To minimize the opportunity for contamination by the containers, it is recommended to transfer the mixed-standard solutions to acid-cleaned, never-used FEP fluorocarbon (FEP) bottles for storage. Fresh mixed standards should be prepared, as needed, with the realization that concentrations can change on aging. Calibration standards not prepared from primary standards must be initially verified using a certified reference solution. For the recommended wavelengths listed in Table 1 some typical calibration standard combinations are given in Table 3.

Note: If the addition of silver to the recommended mixed-acid calibration standard results in an initial precipitation, add 15 mL of reagent water and warm the flask until the solution clears. For this acid combination, the silver concentration should be limited to 0.5 mg/L.

7.10 Blanks-Four types of blanks are required for the analysis. The calibration blank is used in establishing the analytical curve, the laboratory reagent blank is used to assess possible contamination from the sample preparation procedure, the laboratory fortified blank is used to assess routine laboratory performance and a rinse blank is used to flush the instrument uptake system and nebulizer between standards, check solutions, and samples to reduce memory interferences.

7.10.1 The calibration blank for aqueous samples and extracts is prepared by acidifying reagent water to the same concentrations of the acids as used for the standards. The calibration blank should be stored in a FEP bottle.

7.10.2 The laboratory reagent blank (LRB) must contain all the reagents in the same volumes as used in the processing of the samples. The LRB must be carried through the same entire preparation scheme as the samples including sample digestion, when applicable.

7.10.3 The laboratory fortified blank (LFB) is prepared by fortifying an aliquot of the laboratory reagent blank with all analytes to a suitable concentration using the following recommended criteria: Ag 0.1 mg/L, K 5.0 mg/L and all other analytes 0.2 mg/L or a concentration approximately 100 times their respective MDL, whichever is greater. The LFB must be carried through the same entire preparation scheme as the samples including sample digestion, when applicable.

7.10.4 The rinse blank is prepared by acidifying reagent water to the same concentrations of acids as used in the calibration blank and stored in a convenient manner.

7.11 Instrument Performance Check (IPC) Solution-The IPC solution is used to periodically verify instrument performance during analysis. It should be prepared in the same acid mixture as the calibration standards by combining method analytes at appropriate concentrations. Silver must be limited to <0.5 mg/L; while potassium and phosphorus because of higher MDLs and silica because of potential contamination should be at concentrations of 10 mg/L. For other analytes a concentration of 2 mg/L is recommended. The IPC solution should be prepared from the same standard stock solutions used to prepare the calibration standards and stored in an FEP bottle. Agency programs may specify or request that additional instrument performance check solutions be prepared at specified concentrations in order to meet particular program needs.

7.12 Quality Control Sample (QCS)-Analysis of a QCS is required for initial and periodic verification of calibration standards or stock standard solutions in order to verify instrument performance. The QCS must be obtained from an outside source different from the standard stock solutions and prepared in the same acid mixture as the calibration standards. The concentration of the analytes in the QCS solution should be 1 mg/L, except silver, which must be limited to a concentration of 0.5 mg/L for solution stability. The QCS solution should be stored in a FEP bottle and analyzed as needed to meet data-quality needs. A fresh solution should be prepared quarterly or more frequently as needed.

7.13 Spectral Interference Check (SIC) Solutions-When interelement corrections are applied, SIC solutions are needed containing concentrations of the interfering elements at levels that will provide an adequate test of the correction factors.

7.13.1 SIC solutions containing (a) 300 mg/L Fe; (b) 200 mg/L AL; (c) 50 mg/L Ba; (d) 50 mg/L Be; (e) 50 mg/L Cd; (f) 50 mg/L Ce; (g) 50 mg/L Co; (h) 50 mg/L Cr; (i) 50 mg/L Cu; (j) 50 mg/L Mn; (k) 50 mg/L Mo; (l) 50 mg/L Ni; (m) 50 mg/L Sn; (n) 50 mg/L SiO; (o) 50 mg/L Ti; (p) 50 mg/L Tl and (q) 50 mg/L V should be prepared in the same acid mixture as the calibration standards and stored in FEP bottles. These solutions can be used to periodically verify a partial list of the on-line (and possible off-line) interelement spectral correction factors for the recommended wavelengths given in Table 1. Other solutions could achieve the same objective as well. (Multielement SIC solutionsmay be prepared and substituted for the single element solutions provided an analyte is not subject to interference from more than one interferant in the solution.)

Note: If wavelengths other than those recommended in Table 1 are used, other solutions different from those above (a through q) may be required.

7.13.2 For interferences from iron and aluminum, only those correction factors (positive or negative) when multiplied by 100 to calculate apparent analyte concentrations that exceed the determined analyte IDL or fall below the lower 3-sigma control limit of the calibration blank need be tested on a daily basis.

7.13.3 For the other interfering elements, only those correction factors (positive or negative) when multiplied by 10 to calculate apparent analyte concentrations that exceed the determined analyte IDL or fall below the lower 3-sigma control limit of the calibration blank need be tested on a daily basis.

7.13.4 If the correction routine is operating properly, the determined apparent analyte(s) concentration from analysis of each interference solution (a through q) should fall within a specific concentration range bracketing the calibration blank. This concentration range is calculated by multiplying the concentration of the interfering element by the value of the correction factor being tested and dividing by 10. If after subtraction of the calibration blank the apparent analyte concentration is outside (above or below) this range, a change in the correction factor of more than 10% should be suspected. The cause of the change should be determined and corrected and the correction factor should be updated.

Note: The SIC solution should be analyzed more than once to confirm a change has occurred with adequate rinse time between solutions and before subsequent analysis of the calibration blank.

7.13.5 If the correction factors tested on a daily basis are found to be within the 10% criteria for five consecutive days, the required verification frequency of those factors in compliance may be extended to a weekly basis. Also, if the nature of the samples analyzed is such (e.g., finished drinking water) that they do not contain concentrations of the interfering elements at the 10 mg/L level, daily verification is not required; however, all interelement spectral correction factors must be verified annually and updated, if necessary.

7.13.6 If the instrument does not display negative concentration values, fortify the SIC solutions with the elements of interest at 1 mg/L and test for analyte recoveries that are below 95%. In the absence of measurable analyte, over-correction could go undetected because a negative value could be reported as zero.

7.14 For instruments without interelement correction capability or when interelement corrections are not used, SIC solutions (containing similar concentrations of the major components in the samples, e.g., 10 mg/L) can serve to verify the absence of effects at the wavelengths selected. These data must be kept on file with the sample analysis data. If the SIC solution confirms an operative interference that is 10% of the analyte concentration, the analyte must be determined using a wavelength and background correction location free of the interference or by another approved test procedure. Users are advised that high salt concentrations can cause analyte signal suppressions and confuse interference tests.

7.15 Plasma Solution-The plasma solution is used for determining the optimum viewing height of the plasma above the work coil prior to using the method (Section 10.2). The solution is prepared by adding a 5 mL aliquot from each of the stock standard solutions of arsenic, lead, selenium, and thallium to a mixture of 20 mL (1 + 1) nitric acid and 20 mL (1 + 1) hydrochloric acid and diluting to 500 mL with reagent water. Store in a FEP bottle.
