
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 136 - GUIDELINES ESTABLISHING TEST PROCEDURES FOR THE ANALYSIS OF POLLUTANTS
##### Appendix C to Part 136 - Determination of Metals and Trace Elements in Water and Wastes by Inductively Coupled Plasma-Atomic Emission Spectrometry Method 200.7
###### DO NOT DRY.

7.8.18 Mercury solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Hg:CAUTION: highly toxic element. Dissolve 1.354 g HgCl(Hg fraction = 0.7388) in reagent water. Add 50.0 mL concentrated HNOand dilute to volume in 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.19 Molybdenum solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Mo: Dissolve 1.500 g MoO(Mo fraction = 0.6666), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in a mixture of 100 mL reagent water and 10.0 mL concentrated NHOH, heating to effect dissolution. Let solution cool and dilute with reagent water in a 1 L volumetric flask.

7.8.20 Nickel solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Ni: Dissolve 1.000 g of nickel metal, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 20.0 mL hot concentrated HNO, cool, and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.21 Phosphorus solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg P: Dissolve 3.745 g NHHPO(P fraction = 0.2696), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL reagent water and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.22 Potassium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg K: Dissolve 1.907 g KCl (K fraction = 0.5244) dried at 110 &#xB0;C, weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in reagent water, add 20 mL (1 + 1) HCl and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.

7.8.23 Selenium solution, stock, 1 mL = 1000 µg Se: Dissolve 1.405 g SeO(Se fraction = 0.7116), weighed accurately to at least four significant figures, in 200 mL reagent water and dilute to volume in a 1 L volumetric flask with reagent water.
