
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### § 141.21 Coliform sampling.
####### Routine monitoring.

(a)(1) Public water systems must collect total coliform samples at sites which are representative of water throughout the distribution system according to a written sample siting plan. These plans are subject to State review and revision.

(2) The monitoring frequency for total coliforms for community water systems is based on the population served by the system, as follows:

(3) The monitoring frequency for total coliforms for non-community water systems is as follows:

(i) A non-community water system using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2) and serving 1,000 persons or fewer must monitor each calendar quarter that the system provides water to the public, except that the State may reduce this monitoring frequency, in writing, if a sanitary survey shows that the system is free of sanitary defects. Beginning June 29, 1994, the State cannot reduce the monitoring frequency for a non-community water system using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2) and serving 1,000 persons or fewer to less than once/year.

(ii) A non-community water system using only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2) and serving more than 1,000 persons during any month must monitor at the same frequency as a like-sized community water system, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, except the State may reduce this monitoring frequency, in writing, for any month the system serves 1,000 persons or fewer. The State cannot reduce the monitoring frequency to less than once/year. For systems using ground water under the direct influence of surface water, paragraph (a)(3)(iv) of this section applies.

(iii) A non-community water system using surface water, in total or in part, must monitor at the same frequency as a like-sized community water system, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section, regardless of the number of persons it serves.

(iv) A non-community water system using ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2, must monitor at the same frequency as a like-sized community water system, as specified in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The system must begin monitoring at this frequency beginning six months after the State determines that the ground water is under the direct influence of surface water.

(4) The public water system must collect samples at regular time intervals throughout the month, except that a system which uses only ground water (except ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2), and serves 4,900 persons or fewer, may collect all required samples on a single day if they are taken from different sites.

(5) A public water system that uses surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, as defined in § 141.2, and does not practice filtration in compliance with Subpart H must collect at least one sample near the first service connection each day the turbidity level of the source water, measured as specified in § 141.74(b)(2), exceeds 1 NTU. This sample must be analyzed for the presence of total coliforms. When one or more turbidity measurements in any day exceed 1 NTU, the system must collect this coliform sample within 24 hours of the first exceedance, unless the State determines that the system, for logistical reasons outside the system's control, cannot have the sample analyzed within 30 hours of collection. Sample results from this coliform monitoring must be included in determining compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63.

(6) Special purpose samples, such as those taken to determine whether disinfection practices are sufficient following pipe placement, replacement, or repair, shall not be used to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63. Repeat samples taken pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section are not considered special purpose samples, and must be used to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in § 141.63.
