
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### ยง 141.21 Coliform sampling.
####### Sanitary surveys.

(d)(1)(i) Public water systems which do not collect five or more routine samples/month must undergo an initial sanitary survey by June 29, 1994, for community public water systems and June 29, 1999, for non-community water systems. Thereafter, systems must undergo another sanitary survey every five years, except that non-community water systems using only protected and disinfected ground water, as defined by the State, must undergo subsequent sanitary surveys at least every ten years after the initial sanitary survey. The State must review the results of each sanitary survey to determine whether the existing monitoring frequency is adequate and what additional measures, if any, the system needs to undertake to improve drinking water quality.

(ii) In conducting a sanitary survey of a system using ground water in a State having an EPA-approved wellhead protection program under section 1428 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, information on sources of contamination within the delineated wellhead protection area that was collected in the course of developing and implementing the program should be considered instead of collecting new information, if the information was collected since the last time the system was subject to a sanitary survey.

(2) Sanitary surveys must be performed by the State or an agent approved by the State. The system is responsible for ensuring the survey takes place.

(3) Sanitary surveys conducted by the State under the provisions of ยง 142.16(o)(2) of this chapter may be used to meet the sanitary survey requirements of this section.
