
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### ยง 141.21 Coliform sampling.
####### Repeat monitoring.

(b)(1) If a routine sample is total coliform-positive, the public water system must collect a set of repeat samples within 24 hours of being notified of the positive result. A system which collects more than one routine sample/month must collect no fewer than three repeat samples for each total coliform-positive sample found. A system which collects one routine sample/month or fewer must collect no fewer than four repeat samples for each total coliform-positive sample found. The State may extend the 24-hour limit on a case-by-case basis if the system has a logistical problem in collecting the repeat samples within 24 hours that is beyond its control. In the case of an extension, the State must specify how much time the system has to collect the repeat samples.

(2) The system must collect at least one repeat sample from the sampling tap where the original total coliform-positive sample was taken, and at least one repeat sample at a tap within five service connections upstream and at least one repeat sample at a tap within five service connections downstream of the original sampling site. If a total coliform-positive sample is at the end of the distribution system, or one away from the end of the distribution system, the State may waive the requirement to collect at least one repeat sample upstream or downstream of the original sampling site.

(3) The system must collect all repeat samples on the same day, except that the State may allow a system with a single service connection to collect the required set of repeat samples over a four-day period or to collect a larger volume repeat sample(s) in one or more sample containers of any size, as long as the total volume collected is at least 400 ml (300 ml for systems which collect more than one routine sample/month).

(4) If one or more repeat samples in the set is total coliform-positive, the public water system must collect an additional set of repeat samples in the manner specified in paragraphs (b) (1)-(3) of this section. The additional samples must be collected within 24 hours of being notified of the positive result, unless the State extends the limit as provided in paragraph (b)(1) of this section. The system must repeat this process until either total coliforms are not detected in one complete set of repeat samples or the system determines that the MCL for total coliforms in ยง 141.63 has been exceeded and notifies the State.

(5) If a system collecting fewer than five routine samples/month has one or more total coliform-positive samples and the State does not invalidate the sample(s) under paragraph (c) of this section, it must collect at least five routine samples during the next month the system provides water to the public, except that the State may waive this requirement if the conditions of paragraph (b)(5) (i) or (ii) of this section are met. The State cannot waive the requirement for a system to collect repeat samples in paragraphs (b) (1)-(4) of this section.

(i) The State may waive the requirement to collect five routine samples the next month the system provides water to the public if the State, or an agent approved by the State, performs a site visit before the end of the next month the system provides water to the public. Although a sanitary survey need not be performed, the site visit must be sufficiently detailed to allow the State to determine whether additional monitoring and/or any corrective action is needed. The State cannot approve an employee of the system to perform this site visit, even if the employee is an agent approved by the State to perform sanitary surveys.

(ii) The State may waive the requirement to collect five routine samples the next month the system provides water to the public if the State has determined why the sample was total coliform-positive and establishes that the system has corrected the problem or will correct the problem before the end of the next month the system serves water to the public. In this case, the State must document this decision to waive the following month's additional monitoring requirement in writing, have it approved and signed by the supervisor of the State official who recommends such a decision, and make this document available to the EPA and public. The written documentation must describe the specific cause of the total coliform-positive sample and what action the system has taken and/or will take to correct this problem. The State cannot waive the requirement to collect five routine samples the next month the system provides water to the public solely on the grounds that all repeat samples are total coliform-negative. Under this paragraph, a system must still take at least one routine sample before the end of the next month it serves water to the public and use it to determine compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in ยง 141.63, unless the State has determined that the system has corrected the contamination problem before the system took the set of repeat samples required in paragraphs (b) (1)-(4) of this section, and all repeat samples were total coliform-negative.

(6) After a system collects a routine sample and before it learns the results of the analysis of that sample, if it collects another routine sample(s) from within five adjacent service connections of the initial sample, and the initial sample, after analysis, is found to contain total coliforms, then the system may count the subsequent sample(s) as a repeat sample instead of as a routine sample.

(7) Results of all routine and repeat samples not invalidated by the State must be included in determining compliance with the MCL for total coliforms in ยง 141.63.
