
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### § 141.21 Coliform sampling.
####### Analytical methodology.

(f)(1) The standard sample volume required for total coliform analysis, regardless of analytical method used, is 100 ml.

(2) Public water systems need only determine the presence or absence of total coliforms; a determination of total coliform density is not required.

(3) Public water systems must conduct total coliform analyses in accordance with one of the analytical methods in the following table or one of the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part.

(4) [Reserved]

(5) Public water systems must conduct fecal coliform analysis in accordance with the following procedure. When the MTF Technique or Presence-Absence (PA) Coliform Test is used to test for total coliforms, shake the lactose-positive presumptive tube or P-A vigorously and transfer the growth with a sterile 3-mm loop or sterile applicator stick into brilliant green lactose bile broth and EC medium to determine the presence of total and fecal coliforms, respectively. For EPA-approved analytical methods which use a membrane filter, transfer the total coliform-positive culture by one of the following methods: remove the membrane containing the total coliform colonies from the substrate with a sterile forceps and carefully curl and insert the membrane into a tube of EC medium (the laboratory may first remove a small portion of selected colonies for verification), swab the entire membrane filter surface with a sterile cotton swab and transfer the inoculum to EC medium (do not leave the cotton swab in the EC medium), or inoculate individual total coliform-positive colonies into EC Medium. Gently shake the inoculated tubes of EC medium to insure adequate mixing and incubate in a waterbath at 44.5 +/-0.2 &#xB0;C for 24 +/-2 hours. Gas production of any amount in the inner fermentation tube of the EC medium indicates a positive fecal coliform test. The preparation of EC medium is described in Method 9221E (paragraph 1a) in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 18th edition (1992), 19th edition (1995), and 20th edition (1998); the cited method in any one of these three editions may be used. Public water systems need only determine the presence or absence of fecal coliforms; a determination of fecal coliform density is not required.

(6) Public water systems must conduct analysis of Escherichia coli in accordance with one of the following analytical methods or one of the alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part.

(i) EC medium supplemented with 50 µg/mL of 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) (final concentration), as described in Method 9222G in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 19th edition (1995) and 20th edition (1998). Either edition may be used. Alternatively, the 18th edition (1992) may be used if at least 10 mL of EC medium, as described in paragraph (f)(5) of this section, is supplemented with 50 µg/mL of MUG before autoclaving. The inner inverted fermentation tube may be omitted. If the 18th edition is used, apply the procedure in paragraph (f)(5) of this section for transferring a total coliform-positive culture to EC medium supplemented with MUG, incubate the tube at 44.5 +/-0.2 &#xB0;C for 24 +/-2 hours, and then observe fluorescence with an ultraviolet light (366 nm) in the dark. If fluorescence is visible, E. coli are present.

(ii) Nutrient agar supplemented with 100 µg/mL of 4-methylumbelliferyl-beta-D-glucuronide (MUG) (final concentration), as described in Method 9222G in Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater, 19th edition (1995) and 20th edition (1998). Either edition may be used for determining if a total coliform-positive sample, as determined by a membrane filter technique, contains E. coli. Alternatively, the 18th edition (1992) may be used if the membrane filter containing a total coliform-positive colony(ies) is transferred to nutrient agar, as described in Method 9221B (paragraph 3) of Standard Methods (18th edition), supplemented with 100 µg/mL of MUG. If the 18th edition is used, incubate the agar plate at 35 &#xB0;C for 4 hours and then observe the colony(ies) under ultraviolet light (366 nm) in the dark for fluorescence. If fluorescence is visible, E. coli are present.
