
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### § 141.24 Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
####### i.e.

(3) If the system draws water from more than one source and the sources are combined before distribution, the system must sample at an entry point to the distribution system during periods of normal operating conditions (, when water representative of all sources is being used).

(4) Each community and non-transient non-community water system shall take four consecutive quarterly samples for each contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (2) through (21) during each compliance period, beginning in the initial compliance period.

(5) If the initial monitoring for contaminants listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (8) and the monitoring for the contaminants listed in § 141.61(a) (9) through (21) as allowed in paragraph (f)(18) has been completed by December 31, 1992, and the system did not detect any contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21), then each ground and surface water system shall take one sample annually beginning with the initial compliance period.

(6) After a minimum of three years of annual sampling, the State may allow groundwater systems with no previous detection of any contaiminant listed in § 141.61(a) to take one sample during each compliance period.

(7) Each community and non-transient non-community ground water system which does not detect a contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) may apply to the State for a waiver from the requirements of paragraphs (f)(5) and (f)(6) of this section after completing the initial monitoring. (For purposes of this section, detection is defined as ≥0.0005 mg/l.) A waiver shall be effective for no more than six years (two compliance periods). States may also issue waivers to small systems for the initial round of monitoring for 1,2,4-trichlorobenzene.

(8) A State may grant a waiver after evaluating the following factor(s):

(i) Knowledge of previous use (including transport, storage, or disposal) of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence of the system. If a determination by the State reveals no previous use of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence, a waiver may be granted.

(ii) If previous use of the contaminant is unknown or it has been used previously, then the following factors shall be used to determine whether a waiver is granted.

(A) Previous analytical results.

(B) The proximity of the system to a potential point or non-point source of contamination. Point sources include spills and leaks of chemicals at or near a water treatment facility or at manufacturing, distribution, or storage facilities, or from hazardous and municipal waste landfills and other waste handling or treatment facilities.

(C) The environmental persistence and transport of the contaminants.

(D) The number of persons served by the public water system and the proximity of a smaller system to a larger system.

(E) How well the water source is protected against contamination, such as whether it is a surface or groundwater system. Groundwater systems must consider factors such as depth of the well, the type of soil, and wellhead protection. Surface water systems must consider watershed protection.
