
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### ยง 141.24 Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
####### Monitoring frequency:

(4)(i) Each community and non-transient non-community water system shall take four consecutive quarterly samples for each contaminant listed in ยง 141.61(c) during each compliance period beginning with the initial compliance period.

(ii) Systems serving more than 3,300 persons which do not detect a contaminant in the initial compliance period may reduce the sampling frequency to a minimum of two quarterly samples in one year during each repeat compliance period.

(iii) Systems serving less than or equal to 3,300 persons which do not detect a contaminant in the initial compliance period may reduce the sampling frequency to a minimum of one sample during each repeat compliance period.

(5) Each community and non-transient water system may apply to the State for a waiver from the requirement of paragraph (h)(4) of this section. A system must reapply for a waiver for each compliance period.

(6) A State may grant a waiver after evaluating the following factor(s): Knowledge of previous use (including transport, storage, or disposal) of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence of the system. If a determination by the State reveals no previous use of the contaminant within the watershed or zone of influence, a waiver may be granted. If previous use of the contaminant is unknown or it has been used previously, then the following factors shall be used to determine whether a waiver is granted.

(i) Previous analytical results.

(ii) The proximity of the system to a potential point or non-point source of contamination. Point sources include spills and leaks of chemicals at or near a water treatment facility or at manufacturing, distribution, or storage facilities, or from hazardous and municipal waste landfills and other waste handling or treatment facilities. Non-point sources include the use of pesticides to control insect and weed pests on agricultural areas, forest lands, home and gardens, and other land application uses.

(iii) The environmental persistence and transport of the pesticide or PCBs.

(iv) How well the water source is protected against contamination due to such factors as depth of the well and the type of soil and the integrity of the well casing.

(v) Elevated nitrate levels at the water supply source.
