
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### ยง 141.24 Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
####### i.e.

(18) States may allow the use of monitoring data collected after January 1, 1988, required under section 1445 of the Act for purposes of initial monitoring compliance. If the data are generally consistent with the other requirements of this section, the State may use these data (, a single sample rather than four quarterly samples) to satisfy the initial monitoring requirement of paragraph (f)(4) of this section. Systems which use grandfathered samples and did not detect any contaminant listed ยง 141.61(a)(2) through (21) shall begin monitoring annually in accordance with paragraph (f)(5) of this section beginning with the initial compliance period.

(19) States may increase required monitoring where necessary to detect variations within the system.

(20) Each certified laboratory must determine the method detection limit (MDL), as defined in appendix B to part 136, at which it is capable of detecting VOCs. The acceptable MDL is 0.0005 mg/l. This concentration is the detection concentration for purposes of this section.

(21) Each public water system shall monitor at the time designated by the State within each compliance period.

(22) All new systems or systems that use a new source of water that begin operation after January 22, 2004 must demonstrate compliance with the MCL within a period of time specified by the State. The system must also comply with the initial sampling frequencies specified by the State to ensure a system can demonstrate compliance with the MCL. Routine and increased monitoring frequencies shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements in this section.

(g) [Reserved]

(h) Analysis of the contaminants listed in ยง 141.61(c) for the purposes of determining compliance with the maximum contaminant level shall be conducted as follows, with the exception that no monitoring is required for aldicarb, aldicarb sulfoxide or aldicarb sulfone:

(1) Groundwater systems shall take a minimum of one sample at every entry point to the distribution system which is representative of each well after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). Each sample must be taken at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.

(2) Surface water systems shall take a minimum of one sample at points in the distribution system that are representative of each source or at each entry point to the distribution system after treatment (hereafter called a sampling point). Each sample must be taken at the same sampling point unless conditions make another sampling point more representative of each source or treatment plant.
