
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### ยง 141.25 Analytical methods for radioactivity.
####### HASL Procedure Manual,

(2)Edited by John H. Harley. HASL 300, ERDA Health and Safety Laboratory, New York, NY., 1973.

(c) For the purpose of monitoring radioactivity concentrations in drinking water, the required sensitivity of the radioanalysis is defined in terms of a detection limit. The detection limit shall be that concentration which can be counted with a precision of plus or minus 100 percent at the 95 percent confidence level (1.96&#x3C3; where &#x3C3; is the standard deviation of the net counting rate of the sample).

(1) To determine compliance with ยง 141.66(b), (c), and (e) the detection limit shall not exceed the concentrations in Table B to this paragraph.

(2) To determine compliance with ยง 141.66(d) the detection limits shall not exceed the concentrations listed in Table C to this paragraph.

(d) To judge compliance with the maximum contaminant levels listed in ยง 141.66, averages of data shall be used and shall be rounded to the same number of significant figures as the maximum contaminant level for the substance in question.

(e) The State has the authority to determine compliance or initiate enforcement action based upon analytical results or other information compiled by their sanctioned representatives and agencies.
