
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### § 141.24 Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
####### i.e.

(9) As a condition of the waiver a groundwater system must take one sample at each sampling point during the time the waiver is effective (, one sample during two compliance periods or six years) and update its vulnerability assessment considering the factors listed in paragraph (f)(8) of this section. Based on this vulnerability assessment the State must reconfirm that the system is non-vulnerable. If the State does not make this reconfirmation within three years of the initial determination, then the waiver is invalidated and the system is required to sample annually as specified in paragraph (5) of this section.

(10) Each community and non-transient non-community surface water system which does not detect a contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) may apply to the State for a waiver from the requirements of (f)(5) of this section after completing the initial monitoring. Composite samples from a maximum of five sampling points are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Systems meeting this criterion must be determined by the State to be non-vulnerable based on a vulnerability assessment during each compliance period. Each system receiving a waiver shall sample at the frequency specified by the State (if any).

(11) If a contaminant listed in § 141.61(a) (2) through (21) is detected at a level exceeding 0.0005 mg/l in any sample, then:

(i) The system must monitor quarterly at each sampling point which resulted in a detection.

(ii) The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement speci fied in paragraph (f)(11)(i) of this section provided it has determined that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level. In no case shall the State make this determination unless a groundwater system takes a minimum of two quarterly samples and a surface water system takes a minimum of four quarterly samples.

(iii) If the State determines that the system is reliably and consistently below the MCL, the State may allow the system to monitor annually. Systems which monitor annually must monitor during the quarter(s) which previously yielded the highest analytical result.

(iv) Systems which have three consecutive annual samples with no detection of a contaminant may apply to the State for a waiver as specified in paragraph (f)(7) of this section.

(v) Groundwater systems which have detected one or more of the following two-carbon organic compounds: trichloroethylene, tetrachloroethylene, 1,2-dichloroethane, 1,1,1-trichloroethane, cis-1,2-dichloroethylene, trans-1,2-dichloroethylene, or 1,1-dichloroethylene shall monitor quarterly for vinyl chloride. A vinyl chloride sample shall be taken at each sampling point at which one or more of the two-carbon organic compounds was detected. If the results of the first analysis do not detect vinyl chloride, the State may reduce the quarterly monitoring frequency of vinyl chloride monitoring to one sample during each compliance period. Surface water systems are required to monitor for vinyl chloride as specified by the State.

(12) Systems which violate the requirements of § 141.61(a) (1) through (21), as determined by paragraph (f)(15) of this section, must monitor quarterly. After a minimum of four consecutive quarterly samples which show the system is in compliance as specified in paragraph (f)(15) of this section the system and the State determines that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level, the system may monitor at the frequency and times specified in paragraph (f)(11)(iii) of this section.

(13) The State may require a confirmation sample for positive or negative results. If a confirmation sample is required by the State, the result must be averaged with the first sampling result and the average is used for the compliance determination as specified by paragraph (f)(15). States have discretion to delete results of obvious sampling errors from this calculation.

(14) The State may reduce the total number of samples a system must analyze by allowing the use of compositing. Composite samples from a maximum of five sampling points are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples must be done in the laboratory and analyzed within 14 days of sample collection.

(i) If the concentration in the composite sample is greater than or equal to 0.0005 mg/l for any contaminant listed in § 141.61(a), then a follow-up sample must be taken within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite, and be analyzed for that contaminant.

(ii) If duplicates of the original sample taken from each sampling point used in the composite sample are available, the system may use these instead of resampling. The duplicates must be analyzed and the results reported to the State within 14 days after completing analysis of the composite sample, provided the holding time of the sample is not exceeded.

(iii) If the population served by the system is >3,300 persons, then compositing may only be permitted by the State at sampling points within a single system. In systems serving &#x2264;3,300 persons, the State may permit compositing among different systems provided the 5-sample limit is maintained.

(iv) Compositing samples prior to GC analysis.

(A) Add 5 ml or equal larger amounts of each sample (up to 5 samples are allowed) to a 25 ml glass syringe. Special precautions must be made to maintain zero headspace in the syringe.

(B) The samples must be cooled at 4 &#xB0;C during this step to minimize volatilization losses.

(C) Mix well and draw out a 5-ml aliquot for analysis.

(D) Follow sample introduction, purging, and desorption steps described in the method.

(E) If less than five samples are used for compositing, a proportionately small syringe may be used.

(v) Compositing samples prior to GC/MS analysis.

(A) Inject 5-ml or equal larger amounts of each aqueous sample (up to 5 samples are allowed) into a 25-ml purging device using the sample introduction technique described in the method.

(B) The total volume of the sample in the purging device must be 25 ml.

(C) Purge and desorb as described in the method.

(15) Compliance with § 141.61(a) (1) through (21) shall be determined based on the analytical results obtained at each sampling point. If one sampling point is in violation of an MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL.

(i) For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point.

(ii) Systems monitoring annually or less frequently whose sample result exceeds the MCL must begin quarterly sampling. The system will not be considered in violation of the MCL until it has completed one year of quarterly sampling.

(iii) If any sample result will cause the running annual average to exceed the MCL at any sampling point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.

(iv) If a system fails to collect the required number of samples, compliance will be based on the total number of samples collected.

(v) If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average.

(16) [Reserved]

(17) Analysis under this section shall only be conducted by laboratories that are certified by EPA or the State according to the following conditions (laboratories may conduct sample analysis under provisional certification until January 1, 1996):

(i) To receive certification to conduct analyses for the contaminants in § 141.61(a) (2) through (21) the laboratory must:

(A) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State, or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year by each method for which the laboratory desires certification.

(B) Achieve the quantitative acceptance limits under paragraphs (f)(17)(i)(C) and (D) of this section for at least 80 percent of the regulated organic contaminants included in the PE sample.

(C) Achieve quantitative results on the analyses performed under paragraph (f)(17)(i)(A) of this section that are within +/-20% of the actual amount of the substances in the Performance Evaluation sample when the actual amount is greater than or equal to 0.010 mg/l.

(D) Achieve quantitative results on the analyses performed under paragraph (f)(17)(i)(A) of this section that are within +/-40 percent of the actual amount of the substances in the Performance Evaluation sample when the actual amount is less than 0.010 mg/l.

(E) Achieve a method detection limit of 0.0005 mg/l, according to the procedures in appendix B of part 136.

(ii) To receive certification to conduct analyses for vinyl chloride, the laboratory must:

(A) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State, or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year by each method for which the laboratory desires certification.

(B) Achieve quantitative results on the analyses performed under paragraph (f)(17)(ii)(A) of this section that are within +/-40 percent of the actual amount of vinyl chloride in the Performance Evaluation sample.

(C) Achieve a method detection limit of 0.0005 mg/l, according to the procedures in appendix B of part 136.

(D) Obtain certification for the contaminants listed in § 141.61(a)(2) through (21).
