
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### § 141.24 Organic chemicals, sampling and analytical requirements.
####### i.e.

(vi) Use of PCBs in equipment used in the production, storage, or distribution of water (, PCBs used in pumps, transformers, etc.).

(7) If an organic contaminant listed in § 141.61(c) is detected (as defined by paragraph (h)(18) of this section) in any sample, then:

(i) Each system must monitor quarterly at each sampling point which resulted in a detection.

(ii) The State may decrease the quarterly monitoring requirement specified in paragraph (h)(7)(i) of this section provided it has determined that the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level. In no case shall the State make this determination unless a groundwater system takes a minimum of two quarterly samples and a surface water system takes a minimum of four quarterly samples.

(iii) After the State determines the system is reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level the State may allow the system to monitor annually. Systems which monitor annually must monitor during the quarter that previously yielded the highest analytical result.

(iv) Systems which have 3 consecutive annual samples with no detection of a contaminant may apply to the State for a waiver as specified in paragraph (h)(6) of this section.

(v) If the monitoring results in detection of one or more of certain related contaminants (heptachlor and heptachlor epoxide), then subsequent monitoring shall analyze for all related contaminants.

(8) Systems which violate the requirements of § 141.61(c) as determined by paragraph (h)(11) of this section must monitor quarterly. After a minimum of four quarterly samples show the system is in compliance and the State determines the system is reliably and consistently below the MCL, as specified in paragraph (h)(11) of this section, the system shall monitor at the frequency specified in paragraph (h)(7)(iii) of this section.

(9) The State may require a confirmation sample for positive or negative results. If a confirmation sample is required by the State, the result must be averaged with the first sampling result and the average used for the compliance determination as specified by paragraph (h)(11) of this section. States have discretion to delete results of obvious sampling errors from this calculation.

(10) The State may reduce the total number of samples a system must analyze by allowing the use of compositing. Composite samples from a maximum of five sampling points are allowed, provided that the detection limit of the method used for analysis is less than one-fifth of the MCL. Compositing of samples must be done in the laboratory and analyzed within 14 days of sample collection.

(i) If the concentration in the composite sample detects one or more contaminants listed in § 141.61(c), then a follow-up sample must be taken within 14 days at each sampling point included in the composite, and be analyzed for that contaminant.

(ii) If duplicates of the original sample taken from each sampling point used in the composite sample are available, the system may use these instead of resampling. The duplicates must be analyzed and the results reported to the State within 14 days after completion of the composite analysis or before the holding time for the initial sample is exceeded whichever is sooner.

(iii) If the population served by the system is >3,300 persons, then compositing may only be permitted by the State at sampling points within a single system. In systems serving &#x2264;3,300 persons, the State may permit compositing among different systems provided the 5-sample limit is maintained.

(11) Compliance with § 141.61(c) shall be determined based on the analytical results obtained at each sampling point. If one sampling point is in violation of an MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL.

(i) For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point.

(ii) Systems monitoring annually or less frequently whose sample result exceeds the regulatory detection level as defined by paragraph (h)(18) of this section must begin quarterly sampling. The system will not be considered in violation of the MCL until it has completed one year of quarterly sampling.

(iii) If any sample result will cause the running annual average to exceed the MCL at any sampling point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.

(iv) If a system fails to collect the required number of samples, compliance will be based on the total number of samples collected.

(v) If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average.

(12) [Reserved]

(13) Analysis for PCBs shall be conducted as follows using the methods in paragraph (e) of this section:

(i) Each system which monitors for PCBs shall analyze each sample using either Method 508.1, 525.2, 508 or 505. Users of Method 505 may have more difficulty in achieving the required Aroclor detection limits than users of Methods 508.1, 525.2 or 508.

(ii) If PCBs (as one of seven Aroclors) are detected (as designated in this paragraph) in any sample analyzed using Method 505 or 508, the system shall reanalyze the sample using Method 508A to quantitate PCBs (as decachlorobiphenyl).

(iii) Compliance with the PCB MCL shall be determined based upon the quantitative results of analyses using Method 508A.

(14) If monitoring data collected after January 1, 1990, are generally consistent with the requirements of § 141.24(h), then the State may allow systems to use that data to satisfy the monitoring requirement for the initial compliance period beginning January 1, 1993.

(15) The State may increase the required monitoring frequency, where necessary, to detect variations within the system (e.g., fluctuations in concentration due to seasonal use, changes in water source).

(16) The State has the authority to determine compliance or initiate enforcement action based upon analytical results and other information compiled by their sanctioned representatives and agencies.

(17) Each public water system shall monitor at the time designated by the State within each compliance period.

(18) Detection as used in this paragraph shall be defined as greater than or equal to the following concentrations for each contaminant.

(19) Anaylsis under this section shall only be conducted by laboratories that have received certification by EPA or the State and have met the following conditions:

(i) To receive certification to conduct analyses for the contaminants in § 141.61(c) the laboratory must:

(A) Analyze Performance Evaluation (PE) samples provided by EPA, the State, or by a third party (with the approval of the State or EPA) at least once a year by each method for which the laboratory desires certification.

(B) For each contaminant that has been included in the PE sample achieve quantitative results on the analyses that are within the following acceptance limits:

(ii) [Reserved]

(20) All new systems or systems that use a new source of water that begin operation after January 22, 2004 must demonstrate compliance with the MCL within a period of time specified by the State. The system must also comply with the initial sampling frequencies specified by the State to ensure a system can demonstrate compliance with the MCL. Routine and increased monitoring frequencies shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements in this section.
