
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart C - Monitoring and Analytical Requirements
###### ยง 141.26 Monitoring frequency and compliance requirements for radionuclides in community water systems.
####### Compliance:

(3)Compliance with ยง 141.66 (b) through (e) will be determined based on the analytical result(s) obtained at each sampling point. If one sampling point is in violation of an MCL, the system is in violation of the MCL.

(i) For systems monitoring more than once per year, compliance with the MCL is determined by a running annual average at each sampling point. If the average of any sampling point is greater than the MCL, then the system is out of compliance with the MCL.

(ii) For systems monitoring more than once per year, if any sample result will cause the running average to exceed the MCL at any sample point, the system is out of compliance with the MCL immediately.

(iii) Systems must include all samples taken and analyzed under the provisions of this section in determining compliance, even if that number is greater than the minimum required.

(iv) If a system does not collect all required samples when compliance is based on a running annual average of quarterly samples, compliance will be based on the running average of the samples collected.

(v) If a sample result is less than the detection limit, zero will be used to calculate the annual average, unless a gross alpha particle activity is being used in lieu of radium-226 and/or uranium. If the gross alpha particle activity result is less than detection,the detection limit will be used to calculate the annual average.

(4) States have the discretion to delete results of obvious sampling or analytic errors.

(5) If the MCL for radioactivity set forth in ยง 141.66 (b) through (e) is exceeded, the operator of a community water system must give notice to the State pursuant to ยง 141.31 and to the public as required by subpart Q of this part.
