
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart D - Reporting and Recordkeeping
###### ยง 141.33 Record maintenance.

Any owner or operator of a public water system subject to the provisions of this part shall retain on its premises or at a convenient location near its premises the following records:

(a) Records of microbiological analyses and turbidity analyses made pursuant to this part shall be kept for not less than 5 years. Records of chemical analyses made pursuant to this part shall be kept for not less than 10 years. Actual laboratory reports may be kept, or data may be transferred to tabular summaries, provided that the following information is included:

(1) The date, place, and time of sampling, and the name of the person who collected the sample;

(2) Identification of the sample as to whether it was a routine distribution system sample, check sample, raw or process water sample or other special purpose sample;

(3) Date of analysis;

(4) Laboratory and person responsible for performing analysis;

(5) The analytical technique/method used; and

(6) The results of the analysis.

(b) Records of action taken by the system to correct violations of primary drinking water regulations shall be kept for a period not less than 3 years after the last action taken with respect to the particular violation involved.

(c) Copies of any written reports, summaries or communications relating to sanitary surveys of the system conducted by the system itself, by a private consultant, or by any local, State or Federal agency, shall be kept for a period not less than 10 years after completion of the sanitary survey involved.

(d) Records concerning a variance or exemption granted to the system shall be kept for a period ending not less than 5 years following the expiration of such variance or exemption.

(e) Copies of public notices issued pursuant to subpart Q of this part and certifications made to the primacy agency pursuant to ยง 141.31 must be kept for three years after issuance.

(f) Copies of monitoring plans developed pursuant to this part shall be kept for the same period of time as the records of analyses taken under the plan are required to be kept under paragraph (a) of this section, except as specified elsewhere in this part.
