
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart E - Special Regulations, Including Monitoring
###### ยง 141.41 Special monitoring for sodium.

(a) Suppliers of water for community public water systems shall collect and analyze one sample per plant at the entry point of the distribution system for the determination of sodium concentration levels; samples must be collected and analyzed annually for systems utilizing surface water sources in whole or in part, and at least every three years for systems utilizing solely ground water sources. The minimum number of samples required to be taken by the system shall be based on the number of treatment plants used by the system, except that multiple wells drawing raw water from a single aquifer may, with the State approval, be considered one treatment plant for determining the minimum number of samples. The supplier of water may be required by the State to collect and analyze water samples for sodium more frequently in locations where the sodium content is variable.

(b) The supplier of water shall report to EPA and/or the State the results of the analyses for sodium within the first 10 days of the month following the month in which the sample results were received or within the first 10 days following the end of the required monitoring period as stipulated by the State, whichever of these is first. If more than annual sampling is required the supplier shall report the average sodium concentration within 10 days of the month following the month in which the analytical results of the last sample used for the annual average was received. The supplier of water shall not be required to report the results to EPA where the State has adopted this regulation and results are reported to the State. The supplier shall report the results to EPA where the State has not adopted this regulation.

(c) The supplier of water shall notify appropriate local and State public health officials of the sodium levels by written notice by direct mail within three months. A copy of each notice required to be provided by this paragraph shall be sent to EPA and/or the State within 10 days of its issuance. The supplier of water is not required to notify appropriate local and State public health officials of the sodium levels where the State provides such notices in lieu of the supplier.

(d) Analyses for sodium shall be conducted as directed in ยง 141.23(k)(1).
