
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart G - National Primary Drinking Water Regulations: Maximum Contaminant Levels and Maximum Residual Disinfectant Levels
###### ยง 141.64 Maximum contaminant levels for disinfection byproducts.
####### Compliance dates for CWSs and NTNCWSs.

(1)Subpart H systems serving 10,000 or more persons must comply with this paragraph (a) beginning January 1, 2002. Subpart H systems serving fewer than 10,000 persons and systems using only ground water not under the direct influence of surface water must comply with this paragraph (a) beginning January 1, 2004.

(2) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1412 of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for bromate and chlorite identified in this paragraph (a):

(b) TTHM and HAA5. (1) Subpart L-RAA compliance. (i) Compliance dates. Subpart H systems serving 10,000 or more persons must comply with this paragraph (b)(1) beginning January 1, 2002. Subpart H systems serving fewer than 10,000 persons and systems using only ground water not under the direct influence of surface water must comply with this paragraph (b)(1) beginning January 1, 2004. All systems must comply with these MCLs until the date specified for subpart V compliance in ยง 141.620(c).

(ii) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1412 of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for TTHM and HAA5 identified in this paragraph (b)(1):

(2) Subpart V-LRAA compliance. (i) Compliance dates. The subpart V MCLs for TTHM and HAA5 must be complied with as a locational running annual average at each monitoring location beginning the date specified for subpart V compliance in ยง 141.620(c).

(ii) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1412 of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for TTHM and HAA5 identified in this paragraph (b)(2) for all systems that disinfect their source water:

(iii) The Administrator, pursuant to section 1412 of the Act, hereby identifies the following as the best technology, treatment techniques, or other means available for achieving compliance with the maximum contaminant levels for TTHM and HAA5 identified in this paragraph (b)(2) for consecutive systems and applies only to the disinfected water that consecutive systems buy or otherwise receive:
