
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Filtration and Disinfection
###### ยง 141.71 Criteria for avoiding filtration.
####### Giardia lamblia,Giardia lamblia

(2) The public water system must maintain a watershed control program which minimizes the potential for contamination bycysts and viruses in the source water. The State must determine whether the watershed control program is adequate to meet this goal. The adequacy of a program to limit potential contamination bycysts and viruses must be based on: the comprehensiveness of the watershed review; the effectiveness of the system's program to monitor and control detrimental activities occurring in the watershed; and the extent to which the water system has maximized land ownership and/or controlled land use within the watershed. At a minimum, the watershed control program must:

(i) Characterize the watershed hydrology and land ownership;

(ii) Identify watershed characteristics and activities which may have an adverse effect on source water quality; and

(iii) Monitor the occurrence of activities which may have an adverse effect on source water quality.

(3) The public water system must be subject to an annual on-site inspection to assess the watershed control program and disinfection treatment process. Either the State or a party approved by the State must conduct the on-site inspection. The inspection must be conducted by competent individuals such as sanitary and civil engineers, sanitarians, or technicians who have experience and knowledge about the operation and maintenance of a public water system, and who have a sound understanding of public health principles and waterborne diseases. A report of the on-site inspection summarizing all findings must be prepared every year. The on-site inspection must indicate to the State's satisfaction that the watershed control program and disinfection treatment process are adequately designed and maintained. The on-site inspection must include:

(i) A review of the effectiveness of the watershed control program;

(ii) A review of the physical condition of the source intake and how well it is protected;

(iii) A review of the system's equipment maintenance program to ensure there is low probability for failure of the disinfection process;

(iv) An inspection of the disinfection equipment for physical deterioration;

(v) A review of operating procedures;

(vi) A review of data records to ensure that all required tests are being conducted and recorded and disinfection is effectively practiced; and

(vii) Identification of any improvements which are needed in the equipment, system maintenance and operation, or data collection.

(4) The public water system must not have been identified as a source of a waterborne disease outbreak, or if it has been so identified, the system must have been modified sufficiently to prevent another such occurrence, as determined by the State.
