
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Filtration and Disinfection
###### § 141.72 Disinfection.
####### Giardia lamblia,Giardia lamblia

(1) The disinfection treatment must be sufficient to ensure at least 99.9 percent (3-log) inactivation ofcysts and 99.99 percent (4-log) inactivation of viruses, every day the system serves water to the public, except any one day each month. Each day a system serves water to the public, the public water system must calculate the CT value(s) from the system's treatment parameters, using the procedure specified in § 141.74(b)(3), and determine whether this value(s) is sufficient to achieve the specified inactivation rates forcysts and viruses. If a system uses a disinfectant other than chlorine, the system may demonstrate to the State, through the use of a State-approved protocol for on-site disinfection challenge studies or other information satisfactory to the State, that CTvalues other than those specified in tables 2.1 and 3.1 in § 141.74(b)(3) or other operational parameters are adequate to demonstrate that the system is achieving minimum inactivation rates required by paragraph (a)(1) of this section.

(2) The disinfection system must have either (i) redundant components, including an auxiliary power supply with automatic start-up and alarm to ensure that disinfectant application is maintained continuously while water is being delivered to the distribution system, or (ii) automatic shut-off of delivery of water to the distribution system whenever there is less than 0.2 mg/l of residual disinfectant concentration in the water. If the State determines that automatic shut-off would cause unreasonable risk to health or interfere with fire protection, the system must comply with paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section.

(3) The residual disinfectant concentration in the water entering the distribution system, measured as specified in § 141.74 (a)(2) and (b)(5), cannot be less than 0.2 mg/l for more than 4 hours.

(4)(i) The residual disinfectant concentration in the distribution system, measured as total chlorine, combined chlorine, or chlorine dioxide, as specified in § 141.74 (a)(2) and (b)(6), cannot be undetectable in more than 5 percent of the samples each month, for any two consecutive months that the system serves water to the public. Water in the distribution system with a heterotrophic bacteria concentration less than or equal to 500/ml, measured as heterotrophic plate count (HPC) as specified in § 141.74(a)(1), is deemed to have a detectable disinfectant residual for purposes of determining compliance with this requirement. Thus, the value "V" in the following formula cannot exceed 5 percent in one month, for any two consecutive months.

(ii) If the State determines, based on site-specific considerations, that a system has no means for having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory under the requisite time and temperature conditions specified by § 141.74(a)(1) and that the system is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, the requirements of paragraph (a)(4)(i) of this section do not apply to that system.
