
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Filtration and Disinfection
###### § 141.75 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Giardia,i.e.

(vii) The daily determination of whether disinfection achieves adequatecyst and virus inactivation,, whether (CTcalc/CT) is at least 1.0 or, where disinfectants other than chlorine are used, other indicator conditions that the State determines are appropriate, are met.

(viii) The following information on the samples taken in the distribution system in conjunction with total coliform monitoring pursuant to § 141.72:

(A) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is measured;

(B) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is not measured but heterotrophic bacteria plate count (HPC) is measured;

(C) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is measured but not detected and no HPC is measured;

(D) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is detected and where HPC is >500/ml;

(E) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is not measured and HPC is >500/ml;

(F) For the current and previous month the system served water to the public, the value of "V" in the following formula:

(G) If the State determines, based on site-specific considerations, that a system has no means for having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory under the requisite time and temperature conditions specified by § 141.74(a)(1) and that the system is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, the requirements of paragraph (a)(2)(viii) (A)-(F) of this section do not apply to that system.

(ix) A system need not report the data listed in paragraphs (a)(2) (i), and (iii)-(vi) of this section if all data listed in paragraphs (a)(2) (i)-(viii) of this section remain on file at the system, and the State determines that:

(A) The system has submitted to the State all the information required by paragraphs (a)(2) (i)-(viii) of this section for at least 12 months; and

(B) The State has determined that the system is not required to provide filtration treatment.

(3) No later than ten days after the end of each Federal fiscal year (September 30), each system must provide to the State a report which summarizes its compliance with all watershed control program requirements specified in § 141.71(b)(2).

(4) No later than ten days after the end of each Federal fiscal year (September 30), each system must provide to the State a report on the on-site inspection conducted during that year pursuant to § 141.71(b)(3), unless the on-site inspection was conducted by the State. If the inspection was conducted by the State, the State must provide a copy of its report to the public water system.

(5)(i) Each system, upon discovering that a waterborne disease outbreak potentially attributable to that water system has occurred, must report that occurrence to the State as soon as possible, but no later than by the end of the next business day.

(ii) If at any time the turbidity exceeds 5 NTU, the system must consult with the primacy agency as soon as practical, but no later than 24 hours after the exceedance is known, in accordance with the public notification requirements under § 141.203(b)(3).

(iii) If at any time the residual falls below 0.2 mg/l in the water entering the distribution system, the system must notify the State as soon as possible, but no later than by the end of the next business day. The system also must notify the State by the end of the next business day whether or not the residual was restored to at least 0.2 mg/l within 4 hours.

(b) A public water system that uses a surface water source or a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water and provides filtration treatment must report monthly to the State the information specified in this paragraph (b) beginning June 29, 1993, or when filtration is installed, whichever is later.

(1) Turbidity measurements as required by § 141.74(c)(1) must be reported within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes:

(i) The total number of filtered water turbidity measurements taken during the month.

(ii) The number and percentage of filtered water turbidity measurements taken during the month which are less than or equal to the turbidity limits specified in § 141.73 for the filtration technology being used.

(iii) The date and value of any turbidity measurements taken during the month which exceed 5 NTU.

(2) Disinfection information specified in § 141.74(c) must be reported to the State within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes:

(i) For each day, the lowest measurement of residual disinfectant concentration in mg/l in water entering the distribution system.

(ii) The date and duration of each period when the residual disinfectant concentration in water entering the distribution system fell below 0.2 mg/l and when the State was notified of the occurrence.

(iii) The following information on the samples taken in the distribution system in conjunction with total coliform monitoring pursuant to § 141.72:

(A) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is measured;

(B) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is not measured but heterotrophic bacteria plate count (HPC) is measured;

(C) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is measured but not detected and no HPC is measured;

(D) Number of instances where no residual disinfectant concentration is detected and where HPC is >500/ml;

(E) Number of instances where the residual disinfectant concentration is not measured and HPC is >500/ml;

(F) For the current and previous month the system serves water to the public, the value of "V" in the following formula:

(G) If the State determines, based on site-specific considerations, that a system has no means for having a sample transported and analyzed for HPC by a certified laboratory within the requisite time and temperature conditions specified by § 141.74(a)(1) and that the system is providing adequate disinfection in the distribution system, the requirements of paragraph (b)(2)(iii) (A)-(F) of this section do not apply.

(iv) A system need not report the data listed in paragraph (b)(2)(i) of this section if all data listed in paragraphs (b)(2) (i)-(iii) of this section remain on file at the system and the State determines that the system has submitted all the information required by paragraphs (b)(2) (i)-(iii) of this section for at least 12 months.

(3)(i) Each system, upon discovering that a waterborne disease outbreak potentially attributable to that water system has occurred, must report that occurrence to the State as soon as possible, but no later than by the end of the next business day.

(ii) If at any time the turbidity exceeds 5 NTU, the system must consult with the primacy agency as soon as practical, but no later than 24 hours after the exceedance is known, in accordance with the public notification requirements under § 141.203(b)(3).

(iii) If at any time the residual falls below 0.2 mg/l in the water entering the distribution system, the system must notify the State as soon as possible, but no later than by the end of the next business day. The system also must notify the State by the end of the next business day whether or not the residual was restored to at least 0.2 mg/l within 4 hours.
