
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Filtration and Disinfection
###### § 141.74 Analytical and monitoring requirements.
####### Analytical requirements.,Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,Esherichia coli,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)Only the analytical method(s) specified in this paragraph, or otherwise approved by EPA, may be used to demonstrate compliance with §§ 141.71, 141.72 and 141.73. Measurements for pH, turbidity, temperature and residual disinfectant concentrations must be conducted by a person approved by the State. Measurement for total coliforms, fecal coliforms and HPC must be conducted by a laboratory certified by the State or EPA to do such analysis. Until laboratory certification criteria are developed for the analysis of fecal coliforms and HPC, any laboratory certified for total coliforms analysis by the State or EPA is deemed certified for fecal coliforms and HPC analysis. The following procedures shall be conducted in accordance with the publications listed in the following section. This incorporation by reference was approved by the Director of the Federal Register in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. Copies of the methods published inmay be obtained from the American Public Health Association et al., 1015 Fifteenth Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005; copies of the Minimal Medium ONPG-MUG Method as set forth in the article "National Field Evaluation of a Defined Substrate Method for the Simultaneous Enumeration of Total Coliforms andfrom Drinking Water: Comparison with the Standard Multiple Tube Fermentation Method" (Edberg et al.), Applied and Environmental Microbiology, Volume 54, pp. 1595-1601, June 1988 (as amended under Erratum, Applied and Environmental Microbiology, Volume 54, p. 3197, December, 1988), may be obtained from the American Water Works Association Research Foundation, 6666 West Quincy Avenue, Denver, Colorado, 80235; and copies of the Indigo Method as set forth in the article "Determination of Ozone in Water by the Indigo Method" (Bader and Hoigne), may be obtained from Ozone Science & Engineering, Pergamon Press Ltd., Fairview Park, Elmsford, New York 10523. Copies may be inspected at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Room EB15, 401 M St., SW., Washington, DC 20460 or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:
