
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart H - Filtration and Disinfection
###### ยง 141.75 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

(a) A public water system that uses a surface water source and does not provide filtration treatment must report monthly to the State the information specified in this paragraph (a) beginning December 31, 1990, unless the State has determined that filtration is required in writing pursuant to section 1412(b)(7)(C)(iii), in which case the State may specify alternative reporting requirements, as appropriate, until filtration is in place. A public water system that uses a ground water source under the direct influence of surface water and does not provide filtration treatment must report monthly to the State the information specified in this paragraph (a) beginning December 31, 1990, or 6 months after the State determines that the ground water source is under the direct influence of surface water, whichever is later, unless the State has determined that filtration is required in writing pursuant to ยง 1412(b)(7)(C)(iii), in which case the State may specify alternative reporting requirements, as appropriate, until filtration is in place.

(1) Source water quality information must be reported to the State within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes:

(i) The cumulative number of months for which results are reported.

(ii) The number of fecal and/or total coliform samples, whichever are analyzed during the month (if a system monitors for both, only fecal coliforms must be reported), the dates of sample collection, and the dates when the turbidity level exceeded 1 NTU.

(iii) The number of samples during the month that had equal to or less than 20/100 ml fecal coliforms and/or equal to or less than 100/100 ml total coliforms, whichever are analyzed.

(iv) The cumulative number of fecal or total coliform samples, whichever are analyzed, during the previous six months the system served water to the public.

(v) The cumulative number of samples that had equal to or less than 20/100 ml fecal coliforms or equal to or less than 100/100 ml total coliforms, whichever are analyzed, during the previous six months the system served water to the public.

(vi) The percentage of samples that had equal to or less than 20/100 ml fecal coliforms or equal to or less than 100/100 ml total coliforms, whichever are analyzed, during the previous six months the system served water to the public.

(vii) The maximum turbidity level measured during the month, the date(s) of occurrence for any measurement(s) which exceeded 5 NTU, and the date(s) the occurrence(s) was reported to the State.

(viii) For the first 12 months of recordkeeping, the dates and cumulative number of events during which the turbidity exceeded 5 NTU, and after one year of recordkeeping for turbidity measurements, the dates and cumulative number of events during which the turbidity exceeded 5 NTU in the previous 12 months the system served water to the public.

(ix) For the first 120 months of recordkeeping, the dates and cumulative number of events during which the turbidity exceeded 5 NTU, and after 10 years of recordkeeping for turbidity measurements, the dates and cumulative number of events during which the turbidity exceeded 5 NTU in the previous 120 months the system served water to the public.

(2) Disinfection information specified in ยง 141.74(b) must be reported to the State within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes:

(i) For each day, the lowest measurement of residual disinfectant concentration in mg/l in water entering the distribution system.

(ii) The date and duration of each period when the residual disinfectant concentration in water entering the distribution system fell below 0.2 mg/l and when the State was notified of the occurrence.

(iii) The daily residual disinfectant concentration(s) (in mg/l) and disinfectant contact time(s) (in minutes) used for calculating the CT value(s).

(iv) If chlorine is used, the daily measurement(s) of pH of disinfected water following each point of chlorine disinfection.

(v) The daily measurement(s) of water temperature in &#xB0;C following each point of disinfection.

(vi) The daily CTcalc and CTcalc/CTvalues for each disinfectant measurement or sequence and the sum of all CTcalc/CTvalues ((CTcalc/CT)) before or at the first customer.
