
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.80 General requirements.
####### Public education and notification requirements.

(g)Pursuant to § 141.85(d), all water systems must provide notification of lead tap water monitoring results to persons served at the sites (taps) that are tested. All community water systems must conduct annual outreach to local and State health agencies pursuant to § 141.85(i). In addition:

(1) Any water system exceeding the lead action level specified at paragraph (c) of this section shall implement the public education requirements in accordance with § 141.85(a) and (b).

(2) Any water system exceeding the lead trigger level specified at paragraph (c) of this section shall provide notification to all customers with a lead service line in accordance with § 141.85(g).

(3) Any water system exceeding the lead action level specified at paragraph (c) of this section shall notify the public in accordance with the public notification requirements in subpart Q of this part.

(4) Any water system with lead service lines, galvanized requiring replacement or lead status unknown service lines in their inventory as specified in § 141.84(a) shall inform all consumers with a lead service line, galvanized requiring replacement, or a lead status unknown service line in accordance with § 141.85(e).

(5) Any water system that fails to reach its goal lead service line replacement rate as required under § 141.84(f) shall conduct outreach activities in accordance with § 141.85(h).
