
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.82 Description of corrosion control treatment requirements.
####### System recommendation regarding corrosion control treatment for systems that do not contain lead service lines and systems with lead service lines that do not exceed the lead action level.

(a)(1) Any system under this paragraph (a) without corrosion control treatment that is required to recommend a treatment option in accordance with § 141.81(e) must, based on the results of lead and copper tap sampling and water quality parameter monitoring, recommend designation of one or more of the corrosion control treatments listed in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section. Small community water systems and non-transient non-community water systems that exceed the copper action level must comply with this paragraph (a)(1). The State may require the system to conduct additional water quality parameter monitoring to assist the State in reviewing the system's recommendation.

(2) Any small community water system or non-transient non-community water system in this paragraph (a) without corrosion control treatment that chooses to pursue a small water system compliance flexibility option and is required to recommend an option in accordance with § 141.81(f) must, based on the results of lead tap sampling and water quality parameter monitoring, recommend designation of one of the options listed in § 141.93. Systems with no lead service lines that exceed the lead action level and select corrosion control under § 141.93(a)(2) must recommend designation of one or more of the corrosion control treatments listed in paragraph (c)(1) of this section as the optimal corrosion control treatment for that system.

(3) Any system under this paragraph (a) that exceeds the lead action level and selects corrosion control under § 141.93(a)(2) must recommend designation of one or more of the corrosion control treatments listed in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section as the optimal corrosion control treatment for that system. A corrosion control study under paragraph (c) of this section is not required for medium and small systems that exceed the lead trigger level but do not exceed the lead and copper action levels, unless required by the state.

(4) Any small community water system or non-transient, non-community water system with corrosion control treatment that that exceeds the lead action level and selects corrosion control under § 141.93(a)(2) must recommend designation of one or more of the corrosion control treatments listed in paragraph (c)(2) of this section as the optimal corrosion control treatment for that system.

(5) States may waive the requirement for a system to recommend OCCT if the State requires the system, in writing, to complete a corrosion control study within 3 months after the end of the tap sampling period during which the exceedance occurred. Such systems shall proceed directly to paragraph (c) of this section and complete a corrosion control study.
