
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### i.e.,

(iii) "Non-lead" where the service line is determined through an evidence-based record, method, or technique not to be lead or galvanized requiring replacement. The water system may classify the actual material of the service line (plastic or copper) as an alternative to classifying it as "Non-lead."

(iv) "Lead Status Unknown" where the service line material is not known to be lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or a non-lead service line, such as where there is no documented evidence supporting material classification. The water system may classify the line as "Unknown" as an alternative to classifying it as "Lead Status Unknown," however, all requirements that apply to "Lead Status Unknown" service lines must also apply to those classified as "Unknown." Water systems may elect to provide more information regarding their unknown lines as long as the inventory clearly distinguishes unknown service lines from those where the material has been verified through records or inspection.

(5) Water systems shall identify and track service line materials in the inventory as they are encountered in the course of its normal operations (e.g., checking service line materials when reading water meters or performing maintenance activities).

(6) Water systems must update the inventory based on all applicable sources described in paragraphs (a)(3) and (5) of this section and any lead service line replacements or service line material inspections that may have been conducted. The water system may use other sources of information if approved by the State and must use other sources of information provided or required by the State. Water systems must submit the updated inventory to the State in accordance with ยง 141.90(e). The inventory updates must be reflected in the publicly accessible inventory no less frequently than when required to be submitted to the State.

(i) Water systems whose inventories contain only non-lead service lines are not required to provide inventory updates to the State or to the public. If, in the future, such a water system finds a lead service line within its system, it must prepare an updated inventory in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section on a schedule established by the State.

(ii) [Reserved]

(7) To calculate the number of service line replacements applicable to paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, the replacement rate must be applied to the sum of known lead and galvanized requiring replacement service lines when the system first exceeds the trigger or action level plus the number of lead status unknown service lines in the beginning of each year of a system's annual goal or mandatory lead service line replacement program.

(i) Each service line shall count only once for purposes of calculating the required number of service line replacements, even where the ownership of the service line is split and both the customer-owned and system-owned portions require replacement.

(ii) The number of service lines requiring replacement must be updated annually to subtract the number of lead status unknown service lines that were discovered to be non-lead and to add the number of non-lead service lines that were discovered to be a lead or galvanized requiring replacement service line.

(iii) Verification of a lead status unknown service line as non-lead in the inventory does not count as a service line replacement.

(8) The service line materials inventory must be publicly accessible.

(i) The inventory must include a location identifier, such as a street address, block, intersection, or landmark, associated with each lead service line and galvanized requiring replacement service line. Water systems may, but are not required to, include a locational identifier for lead status unknown service lines or list the exact address of each service line.

(ii) Water systems serving greater than 50,000 persons must make the publicly accessible inventory available online.

(9) When a water system has no lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service lines (regardless of ownership) in its inventory, it may comply with the requirements in paragraph (a)(8) of this section using a written statement, in lieu of the inventory, declaring that the distribution system has no lead service lines or galvanized requiring replacement service lines. The statement must include a general description of all applicable sources described in paragraphs (a)(3), (5), and (6) of this section used to make this determination.

(10) Instructions to access the service line inventory (including inventories consisting only of a statement in accordance with paragraph (a)(9) of this section) must be included in Consumer Confidence Report in accordance with ยง 141.153(d)(4)(xi).
