
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### Lead service line inventory.

(a)All water systems must develop an inventory to identify the materials of service lines connected to the public water distribution system. The inventory must meet the following requirements:

(1) All water systems must develop an initial inventory by October 16, 2024, and submit it to the primacy agency in accordance with ยง 141.90(e).

(2) The inventory must include all service lines connected to the public water distribution system regardless of ownership status (e.g., where service line ownership is shared, the inventory would include both the portion of the service line owned by the water system and the customer-owned portion of the service line).

(3) A water system must use any information on lead and galvanized iron or steel that it has identified pursuant to ยง 141.42(d) when conducting the inventory of service lines in its distribution system for the initial inventory under paragraph (a)(1) of this section. The water system must also review the sources of information listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section to identify service line materials for the initial inventory. The water system may use other sources of information not listed in paragraphs (a)(3)(i) through (iv) of this section if approved by the State.

(i) All construction and plumbing codes, permits, and existing records or other documentation which indicates the service line materials used to connect structures to the distribution system.

(ii) All water system records, including distribution system maps and drawings, historical records on each service connection, meter installation records, historical capital improvement or master plans, and standard operating procedures.

(iii) All inspections and records of the distribution system that indicate the material composition of the service connections that connect a structure to the distribution system.

(iv) Any resource, information, or identification method provided or required by the State to assess service line materials.

(4) Each service line, or portion of the service line where ownership is split, must be categorized in the following manner:

(i) "Lead" where the service line is made of lead.

(ii) "Galvanized Requiring Replacement" where a galvanized service line is or was at any time downstream of a lead service line or is currently downstream of a "Lead Status Unknown" service line. If the water system is unable to demonstrate that the galvanized service line was never downstream of a lead service line, it must presume there was an upstream lead service line.
