
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### Goal-based full lead service line replacement for water systems whose 90th percentile lead level is above the trigger level but at or below the lead action level.

(f)Water systems that serve more than 10,000 persons whose 90th percentile lead level from tap samples taken pursuant to ยง 141.86 is above the lead trigger level but at or below the lead action level must conduct goal-based full lead service line replacement at a rate approved by the state.

(1) The water system must calculate the number of full lead service line replacements it must conduct annually in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(2) Replacement of lead service lines must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (d) or (e) of this section.

(3) Only full lead service line replacements count towards a water system's annual replacement goal. Partial lead service line replacements do not count towards the goal.

(4) The water system must provide information to customers with lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service lines as required in ยง 141.85(g).

(5) Any water system that fails to meet its lead service line replacement goal must:

(i) Conduct public outreach activities pursuant to ยง 141.85(h) until either the water system meets its replacement goal, or tap sampling shows the 90th percentile of lead is at or below the trigger level for two consecutive one-year monitoring periods.

(ii) Recommence its goal-based lead service line replacement program pursuant to this paragraph (f)(5)(ii) if the 90th percentile lead level anytime thereafter exceeds the lead trigger level but is at or below the lead action level.

(6) The first year of lead service line replacement shall begin on the first day following the end of the tap sampling period in which the lead trigger level was exceeded. If sampling is required annually or less frequently, the end of the tap sampling monitoring period is September 30 of the calendar year in which the sampling occurs. If the State has established an alternate monitoring period, then the end of the monitoring period will be the last day of that period.
