
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### Requirements for conducting lead service line replacement that may result in partial replacement.

(d)(1) Any water system that plans to partially replace a lead service line (e.g., replace only the portion of a lead service line that it owns) in coordination with planned infrastructure work must provide notice to the owner of the affected service line, or the owner's authorized agent, as well as non-owner resident(s) served by the affected service line at least 45 days prior to the replacement. The notice must explain that the system will replace the portion of the line it owns and offer to replace the portion of the service line not owned by the water system. The water system is not required to bear the cost of replacement of the portion of the affected service line not owned by the water system.

(i) Before the affected service line is returned to service, the water system must provide notification meeting the content requirements of § 141.85(a) explaining that consumers may experience a temporary increase of lead levels in their drinking water due to the replacement, information about the health effects of lead, and actions consumers can take to minimize their exposure to lead in drinking water. In instances where multi-family dwellings are served by the affected service line to be partially replaced, the water system may elect to post the information at a conspicuous location instead of providing individual notification to all residents.

(ii) The water system must provide information about service line flushing in accordance with the procedure developed in paragraph (b)(5) of this section before the affected service line is returned to service.

(iii) The water system must provide the consumer with a pitcher filter or point-of-use device certified by an American National Standards Institute accredited certifier to reduce lead, six months of replacement cartridges, and instructions for use before the affected service line is returned to service. If the affected service line serves more than one residence or non-residential unit (e.g., a multi-unit building), the water system must provide a filter, six months of replacement cartridges and use instructions to every residence in the building.

(iv) The water system must offer to collect a follow up tap sample between three months and six months after completion of any partial replacement of a lead service line. The water system must provide the results of the sample in accordance with § 141.85(d).

(2) Any water system that replaces the portion of the lead service line it owns due to an emergency repair, must provide notice and risk mitigation measures to the persons served by the affected service line in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section before the affected service line is returned to service.

(3) When a water system is notified by the customer that the customer's portion of the lead service line will be replaced, the water system must make a good faith effort to coordinate simultaneous replacement of its portion of the service line. If simultaneous replacement cannot be conducted, the water system must replace its portion as soon as practicable but no later than 45 days from the date the customer replaces its portion of the lead service line. The water system must provide notification and risk mitigation measure in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section. If the water system fails to replace its portion of the lead service line within 45 days from the date the customer replaces the customer's portion of the lead service line, the water system must notify the State within 30 days of failing to meet the deadline in accordance with § 141.90(e) and complete the replacement no later than 180 days of the date the customer replaces its portion.

(4) When a water system is notified or otherwise learns that replacement of a customer-owned lead service line has occurred within the previous six months and left in place a system-owned lead service line, the water system must replace its portion within 45 days from the day of becoming aware of the customer replacement. The water system must provide notification and risk mitigation measures in accordance with paragraphs (d)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section within 24 hours of becoming aware of the customer replacement. If the water system fails to replace its portion of the affected service line within 45 days of becoming aware of the customer replacement, it must notify the State within 30 days of failing to meet the deadline in accordance with § 141.90(e). The water system must complete the replacement no later than 180 days after the date the customer replaces its portion.

(5) When a water system is notified or otherwise learns of a replacement of a customer-owned lead service line which has occurred more than six months in the past, the water system is not required to complete the lead service line replacement of the system-owned portion under this paragraph (d)(5), however the system-owned portion must still be included in the calculation of a lead service line replacement rate under paragraph (a)(7) of this section.
