
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.85 Public education and supplemental monitoring and mitigation requirements.

All water systems must deliver a consumer notice of lead tap water monitoring results to persons served by the water system at sites that are sampled, as specified in paragraph (d) of this section. A water system with lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service lines must deliver public education materials to persons with a lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service line as specified in paragraphs (e) through (g) of this section. All community water systems must conduct annual outreach to local and State health agencies as outlined in paragraph (i) of this section. A community water system serving more than 10,000 persons that fails to meet its annual lead service line replacement goal as required under ยง 141.84(f) shall conduct outreach activities as specified in paragraph (h) of this section. A water system that exceeds the lead action level based on tap water samples collected in accordance with ยง 141.86 shall deliver the public education materials contained in paragraph (a) of this section and in accordance with the requirements in paragraph (b) of this section. Water systems that exceed the lead action level shall offer to sample the tap water of any customer who requests it in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section. All small community water systems and non-transient non-community water systems that elect to implement POU devices under ยง 141.93 must provide public education materials to inform users how to properly use POU devices in accordance with paragraph (j) of this section.
