
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### Mandatory full lead service line replacement for water systems whose 90th percentile lead level exceeds the lead action level.

(g)Water systems serving more than 10,000 persons that exceed the lead action level in tap samples taken pursuant to § 141.86 must conduct mandatory full lead service line replacement at an average annual rate of at least three percent, calculated on a two-year rolling basis.

(1) The average annual number of full lead service line replacements must be calculated in accordance with paragraph (a)(7) of this section.

(2) Lead service line replacement must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(3) Only full lead service line replacement count towards a water system's mandatory replacement rate of at least three percent annually. Partial lead service line replacements do not count towards the mandatory replacement rate.

(4) Water systems must provide information to customers with lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service lines consistent with § 141.85(g).

(5) Community water systems serving 10,000 or fewer persons and Non-transient non-community water systems for which the state has approved or designated lead service line replacement as a compliance option must conduct lead service line replacement as described in § 141.93(a)(1). Replacement of lead service lines must be conducted in accordance with the requirements of paragraphs (d) and (e) of this section.

(6) A water system may cease mandatory lead service line replacement when it has conducted a cumulative percentage of replacements greater than or equal to 3%, or other percentage specified in paragraph (g)(9) of this section, of the service lines specified in paragraph (a)(7) of this section multiplied by the number of years that elapsed from when the system most recently began mandatory lead service line replacement and the date on which the system's 90th percentile lead level, in accordance with § 141.80(c)(4), has been calculated to be at or below the lead action level during each of four consecutive six-month tap sampling monitoring periods. If tap samples collected in any such system thereafter exceed the lead action level, the system shall recommence mandatory lead service line replacement at the same two-year rolling average rate, unless the State has designated an alternate replacement rate under paragraph (g)(9) of this section.

(7) The water system may also cease mandatory lead service line replacement if the system has no remaining lead status unknown service lines in its inventory and obtains refusals to conduct full lead service line replacement or non-responses from every remaining customer in its distribution system served by either a full or partial lead service line, or a galvanized requiring replacement service line. For purposes of this paragraph (g)(7) and in accordance with § 141.90(e), a water system must provide documentation to the State of customer refusals including a refusal signed by the customer, documentation of a verbal statement made by the customer refusing replacement, or documentation of no response from the customer after the water system made a minimum of two good faith attempts to reach the customer regarding full lead service line replacement. If the water system's 90th percentile exceeds the lead action level again, it must contact all customers served by a full or partial lead service line or a galvanized requiring replacement service line with an offer to replace the customer-owned portion. Nothing in this paragraph (g)(7) requires the water system to bear the cost of replacement of the customer-owned lead service line.

(8) The first year of lead service line replacement shall begin on the first day following the end of the tap sampling period in which lead action level was exceeded.

(9) The State shall require a system to replace lead service lines on a shorter schedule than that required by this section, taking into account the number of lead service lines in the system, where the State determines a shorter replacement schedule is feasible. The State shall make this determination in writing and notify the system of its finding within six months after the system is required to begin lead service line replacement under paragraph (g) of this section.
