
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### Requirements for conducting full lead service line replacement.

(e)Any water system that conducts a full lead service line replacement must provide notice to the owner of the affected service line, or the owner's authorized agent, as well as non-owner resident(s) served by the affected service line within 24 hours of completion of the replacement. The water system is not required to bear the cost of replacement of the portion of the lead service line not owned by the water system.

(1) The notification must meet the content requirements of ยง 141.85(a) explaining that consumers may experience a temporary increase of lead levels in their drinking water due to the replacement, information about the health effects of lead, and actions consumers can take to minimize their exposure to lead in drinking water. In instances where multi-family dwellings are served by the lead service line to be replaced, the water system may elect to post the information at a conspicuous location instead of providing individual notification to all residents.

(2) The water system must provide information about service line flushing in accordance with the procedure developed under paragraph (b)(5) of this section before the replaced service line is returned to service.

(3) The water system must provide the consumer with a pitcher filter or point-of-use device certified by an American National Standards Institute accredited certifier to reduce lead, six months of replacement cartridges, and instructions for use before the replaced service line is returned to service. If the lead service line serves more than one residence or non-residential unit (e.g., a multi-unit building), the water system must provide a filter and six months of replacement cartridges and use instructions to every residence in the building.

(4) The water system must offer to the consumer to take a follow up tap sample between three months and six months after completion of any full replacement of a lead service line. The water system must provide the results of the sample to the consumer in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.
