
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.84 Lead service line replacement requirements.
####### Operating procedures for replacing lead goosenecks, pigtails, or connectors.

(c)(1) The water system must replace any lead gooseneck, pigtail, or connector it owns when encountered during planned or unplanned water system infrastructure work.

(2) The water system must offer to replace a customer-owned lead gooseneck, pigtail, or connector; however, the water system is not required to bear the cost of replacement of the customer-owned parts.

(3) The water system is not required to replace a customer-owned lead gooseneck, pigtail, or connector if the customer objects to its replacement.

(4) The replacement of a lead gooseneck, pigtail, or connector does not count for the purposes of meeting the requirements for goal-based or mandatory lead service line replacements, in accordance with paragraphs (f) and (g) of this section, respectively.

(5) Upon replacement of any gooseneck, pigtail, or connector that is attached to a lead service line, the water system must follow risk mitigation procedures specified in ยง 141.85(f)(2).

(6) The requirements of paragraphs (c)(1), (2), (3), and (5) of this section do not apply if state law includes lead connectors in the definition of lead service lines, prohibits partial lead service line replacements, and requires systems to remove all lead service lines irrespective of a system's 90th percentile lead level.
