
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.85 Public education and supplemental monitoring and mitigation requirements.
####### Outreach activities for failure to meet the lead service line replacement goal.

(h)(1) In the first year after a community water system that serves more than 10,000 persons does not meet its annual lead service line replacement goal as required under § 141.84(f), it must conduct one outreach activity from the following list in the following year until the water system meets its replacement goal or until tap sampling shows that the 90th percentile for lead is at or below the trigger level of 10 µg/L for two consecutive tap sampling monitoring periods:

(i) Send certified mail to customers with a lead or galvanized requiring replacement service line to inform them about the water system's goal-based lead service line replacement program and opportunities for replacement of the service line.

(ii) Conduct a townhall meeting.

(iii) Participate in a community event to provide information about its lead service line replacement program and distribute public education materials that meet the content requirements in paragraph (a) of this section.

(iv) Contact customers by phone, text message, email, or door hanger.

(v) Use another method approved by the State to discuss the lead service line replacement program and opportunities for lead service line replacement.

(2) After the first year following a trigger level exceedance, any water system that thereafter continues to fail to meet its lead service line replacement goal must conduct one activity from paragraph (h)(1) of this section and two additional outreach activities per year from the following list:

(i) Conduct social media campaign.

(ii) Conduct outreach via newspaper, television, or radio.

(iii) Contact organizations representing plumbers and contractors by mail to provide information about lead in drinking water including health effects, sources of lead, and the importance of using lead free plumbing materials.

(iv) Visit targeted customers to discuss the lead service line replacement program and opportunities for replacement.

(3) The water system may cease outreach activities when tap sampling shows that the 90th percentile for lead is at or below the trigger level of 10 µg/L for two consecutive tap sampling monitoring periods or when all customer-side lead or galvanized requiring replacement service line owners refuse to participate in the lead service line replacement program. For purposes of this paragraph (h)(3), a refusal includes a signed statement by the customer refusing lead service line replacement, or documentation by the water system of a verbal refusal or of no response after two good faith attempts to reach the customer.
