
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.86 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
####### Timing of monitoring,Standard monitoring.

(d)-(1)Standard monitoring is a six-month tap sampling monitoring period that begins on January 1 or July 1 of the year in which the water system is monitoring at the standard number of sites in accordance to paragraph (c) of this section.

(i) All water systems with lead service lines, including those deemed optimized under § 141.81(b)(3), and systems that did not conduct monitoring that meets all requirements of this section (e.g., sites selected in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, samples collected in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, etc.) between January 15, 2021, and October 16, 2024, must begin the first standard monitoring period on January 1 or July 1 in the year following October 16, 2024, whichever is sooner. Upon completion of this monitoring, systems must monitor in accordance with paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(ii) Systems that conducted monitoring that meets all requirements of this section (e.g., sites selected in accordance with paragraph (a) of this section, samples collected in accordance with paragraph (b) of this section, etc.) between January 15, 2021, and October 16, 2024, and systems that have completed monitoring under paragraph (d)(1)(i) of this section, must continue monitoring as follows:

(A) Systems that do not meet the criteria under paragraph (d)(4) of the section must conduct standard monitoring.

(B) Systems that meet the criteria under paragraph (d)(4) of this section must continue to monitor in accordance with the criteria in paragraph (d)(4).

(C) Any system monitoring at a reduced frequency in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section that exceeds an action level must resume standard monitoring beginning January 1 of the calendar year following the tap sampling monitoring period in which the system exceeded the action level. Any such system must also monitor in accordance with § 141.87(b), (c), or (d) as applicable.

(D) Any system monitoring at a reduced frequency that exceeds the lead trigger level but meets the copper action level must not monitor any less frequently than annually and must collect samples from the standard number of sites as established in paragraph (c) of this section. This monitoring must begin the calendar year following the tap sampling monitoring period in which the system exceeded the action level. Any such system must also monitor in accordance with § 141.87(b), (c), or (d) as applicable.

(E) Any system that fails to operate at or above the minimum value or within the range of values for the water quality parameters specified by the State under § 141.82(f) for more than nine days in any monitoring period specified in § 141.87 must conduct standard tap water monitoring and must resume sampling for water quality parameters in accordance with § 141.87(d). This standard monitoring must begin no later than the 6-month period beginning January 1 of the calendar year following the water quality parameter excursion.
