
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.86 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
####### OCCT

(ii) Any system that meets the lead trigger level and the copper action levels during two consecutive 6-month tap sampling monitoring periods may reduce the monitoring frequency to annual monitoring and must sample at the standard number of sampling sites for lead and the reduced number of sites for copper as specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Systems operatingmust also have maintained the range of OWQPs set by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f) for the same period and receive a written determination from the State approving annual monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. This sampling must begin no later than the calendar year immediately following the last calendar year in which the system sampled.

(iii) Any water system that exceeds the lead trigger level but not the lead and copper action levels during two consecutive 6-month tap sampling monitoring periods must monitor no less frequently than annually at the standard number of sampling sites for lead and copper specified in paragraph (c) of this section. Systems operating OCCT must also have maintained the range of OWQPs set by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f) for the same period of 6-month monitoring and receive a written determination from the State approving annual monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. This sampling must begin no later than the calendar year immediately following the last calendar year in which the system sampled.

(iv) Any water system that exceeds the lead trigger level but not the lead and copper action levels during three consecutive years of monitoring may reduce the tap sampling monitoring period for copper to once every three years; however, the system may not reduce the tap sampling monitoring period for lead. Systems operating OCCT must also maintain the range of OWQPs set by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f) and receive a written determination from the State approving triennial monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. This sampling must begin no later than the third calendar year immediately following the last calendar year in which the system sampled.

(v) Any small or medium-sized system that does not exceed the lead trigger level and the copper action level during three consecutive years of monitoring (standard monitoring completed during both six-month periods of a calendar year shall be considered 1 year of monitoring) may sample at the reduced number of sites for lead and copper in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and reduce the monitoring frequency to triennial monitoring. Systems operating OCCT must also have maintained the range of OWQPs set by the State in accordance with § 141.82(f) for the same three-year period and receive a written determination from the State approving triennial monitoring based on the State's review of monitoring, treatment, and other relevant information submitted by the system as required by § 141.90. This sampling must begin no later than three calendar years after the last calendar year in which the system sampled.

(vi) Any water system that demonstrates for two consecutive 6-month monitoring periods that its 90th percentile lead level, calculated under § 141.80(c)(4), is less than or equal to 0.005 mg/L and the 90th percentile copper level, calculated under § 141.80(c)(4), is less than or equal to 0.65 mg/L may sample at the reduced number of sites for lead and copper in accordance with paragraph (c) of this section and reduce the frequency of monitoring to triennial monitoring. For water systems with corrosion control treatment, the system must maintain the range of values for the water quality parameters reflecting optimal corrosion control treatment specified by the State under § 141.82(f) to qualify for reduced monitoring pursuant to this paragraph (d)(4)(vi).
