
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.86 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
####### Invalidation of lead and copper tap samples used in the calculation of the 90th percentile.

(f)A sample invalidated under this paragraph (f) does not count toward determining lead or copper 90th percentile levels under ยง 141.80(c)(4) or toward meeting the minimum monitoring requirements of paragraph (c) of this section.

(1) The State may invalidate a lead or copper tap water sample at least if one of the following conditions is met.

(i) The laboratory establishes that improper sample analysis caused erroneous results.

(ii) The State determines that the sample was taken from a site that did not meet the site selection criteria of this section.

(iii) The sample container was damaged in transit.

(iv) There is substantial reason to believe that the sample was subject to tampering.

(2) The system must report the results of all samples to the State and all supporting documentation for samples the system believes should be invalidated.

(3) To invalidate a sample under paragraph (f)(1) of this section, the decision and the rationale for the decision must be documented in writing. States may not invalidate a sample solely on the grounds that a follow-up sample result is higher or lower than that of the original sample.

(4) The water system must collect replacement samples for any samples invalidated under this section if, after the invalidation of one or more samples, the system has too few samples to meet the minimum requirements of paragraph (c) of this section. Any such replacement samples must be taken as soon as possible, but no later than 20 days after the date the State invalidates the sample or by the end of the applicable monitoring period, whichever occurs later. Replacement samples taken after the end of the applicable monitoring period shall not also be used to meet the monitoring requirements of a subsequent monitoring period. The replacement samples shall be taken at the same locations as the invalidated samples or, if that is not possible, at locations other than those already used for sampling during the monitoring period.
