
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.86 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
####### Reduced monitoring based on 90th percentile levels.

(4)Reduced monitoring refers to an annual or triennial tap sampling monitoring period. The reduced monitoring frequency is based on the 90th percentile value for the water system.

(i) A water system that meets the criteria for reduced monitoring under paragraph (d)(4) of this section must collect these samples from sampling sites identified in paragraph (a) of this section. Systems monitoring annually or less frequently must conduct the lead and copper tap sampling during the months of June, July, August, or September unless the State has approved a different sampling period in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section.

(A) The State at its discretion may approve a different tap sampling period for conducting the lead and copper tap sampling for systems collecting samples at a reduced frequency. Such a period must be no longer than four consecutive months, within one calendar year, and must represent a time of normal operation where the highest levels of lead are most likely to occur. For a non-transient non-community water system that does not operate during the months of June through September and for which the period of normal operation where the highest levels of lead are most likely to occur is not known, the State must designate a period that represents normal operation for the system. This monitoring must begin during the period approved or designated by the State in the calendar year immediately following the end of the second 6-month monitoring period for systems initiating annual monitoring and during the 3-year period following the end of the third consecutive year of annual monitoring for systems initiating triennial monitoring.

(B) Systems monitoring annually that have been collecting samples during the months of June through September and that receive State approval to alter their tap sampling monitoring period under paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must collect their next round of samples during a time period that ends no later than 21 months after the previous round of sampling. Systems monitoring triennially that have been collecting samples during the month of June through September and receive State approval to alter their sampling collection period as per paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must collect their next round of samples during a time period that ends no later than 45 months after the previous tap sampling period. Subsequent monitoring must be conducted annually or triennially, as required by this section.

(C) Small systems with waivers granted pursuant to paragraph (g) of this section that have been collecting samples during the months of June through September and receive State approval to alter their tap sampling period as per paragraph (d)(4)(i)(A) of this section must collect their next round of samples before the end of the 9-year period.
