
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.86 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
####### Monitoring after installation of initial or re-optimized corrosion control treatment, installation of source water treatment and addition of new source or change in treatment.

(2)(i) Any water system that installs or re-optimizes corrosion control treatment, as a result of exceeding the lead or copper action level, must monitor for lead and copper every six months and comply with previously designated water quality parameter values, where applicable, until the State specifies new water quality parameter values for optimal corrosion control.

(ii) Any water system that re-optimizes corrosion control treatment as a result of exceeding the lead trigger level but has not exceeded the lead or copper action level must monitor annually for lead at the standard number of sites listed in paragraph (c) of this section. Samples shall be analyzed for copper on a triennial basis. Small and medium-size systems that do not exceed the lead trigger level in three annual monitoring periods may reduce lead monitoring in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(iii) Any water system that installs source water treatment pursuant to ยง 141.83(a)(3) must monitor every six months until the system at or below lead and copper action levels for two consecutive six-month monitoring periods. Systems that do not exceed the lead or copper action level for two consecutive 6-month monitoring periods may reduce monitoring in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.

(iv) If a water system has notified the State in writing in accordance with ยง 141.90(a)(3) of an upcoming addition of a new source or long term change in treatment, the water system shall monitor every six months at the standard number of sites listed under paragraph (c) of this section until the system is at or below the lead and copper action levels for two consecutive six-month monitoring periods, unless the State determines that the addition of the new source or long term change in treatment is not significant and, therefore, does not warrant more frequent monitoring. Systems that do not exceed the lead and copper action levels, and/or the lead trigger level for two consecutive six-month monitoring periods may reduce monitoring in accordance with paragraph (d)(4) of this section.
