
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.86 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in tap water.
####### Monitoring frequency for systems with waivers.

(4)(i) A system with a full waiver must conduct tap water monitoring for lead and copper in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section at the reduced number of sampling sites identified in paragraph (c) of this section at least once every nine years and provide the materials certification specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section for both lead and copper to the State along with the monitoring results. Samples collected every nine years shall be collected no later than every ninth calendar year.

(ii) A system with a partial waiver must conduct tap water monitoring for the waived contaminant in accordance with paragraph (d)(4)(iv) of this section at the reduced number of sampling sites specified in paragraph (c) of this section at least once every nine years and provide the materials certification specified in paragraph (g)(1) of this section pertaining to the waived contaminant along with the monitoring results. Such a system also must continue to monitor for the non-waived contaminant in accordance with requirements of paragraph (d)(1) through (d)(4) of this section, as appropriate.

(iii) Any water system with a full or partial waiver shall notify the State in writing in accordance with ยง 141.90(a)(3) of any upcoming long-term change in treatment or addition of a new source, as described in that section. The State must review and approve the addition of a new source or long-term change in water treatment before it is implemented by the water system. The State has the authority to require the system to add or modify waiver conditions (e.g., require recertification that the system is free of lead-containing and/or copper-containing materials, require additional round(s) of monitoring), if it deems such modifications are necessary to address treatment or source water changes at the system.

(iv) If a system with a full or partial waiver becomes aware that it is no longer free of lead-containing or copper-containing materials, as appropriate, (e.g., as a result of new construction or repairs), the system shall notify the State in writing no later than 60 days after becoming aware of such a change.
