
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.87 Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters.
####### Number of samples.

(2)(i) Systems must collect two tap samples for applicable water quality parameters during each monitoring period specified under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section from the minimum number of sites listed in table 1 to this paragraph (a)(2)(i). Systems that add sites as a result of the "find-and-fix" requirements in ยง 141.82(j) must collect tap samples for applicable water quality parameters during each monitoring period under paragraphs (b) through (e) of this section and must sample from that adjusted minimum number of sites. Systems are not required to add sites if they are monitoring at least twice the minimum number of sites list in table 1 to this paragraph (a)(2)(i).

(ii)(A) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(2) of this section, water systems without corrosion control treatment must collect two samples for each applicable water quality parameter at each entry point to the distribution system during each monitoring period specified in paragraph (b) of this section. During each monitoring period specified in paragraphs (c) through (e) of this section, water systems must collect one sample for each applicable water quality parameter at each entry point to the distribution system.

(B) During each monitoring period specified in paragraphs (c) through (e) of the section, water systems with corrosion control treatment must continue to collect one sample for each applicable water quality parameter at each entry point to the distribution system no less frequently than once every two weeks.
