
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.87 Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters.
####### Monitoring after installation of optimal corrosion control or re-optimized corrosion control treatment.

(c)(1) Any system that installs or modifies corrosion control treatment pursuant to ยง 141.81(d)(5) or (e)(5) and is required to monitor pursuant ยง 141.81(d)(6) or (e)(6) must monitor the parameters identified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section every six months at the locations and frequencies specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) and (ii) of this section until the State specifies new water quality parameter values for optimal corrosion control pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section. Water systems must collect these samples evenly throughout the 6-month monitoring period so as to reflect seasonal variability.

(i) At taps, two samples each for:

(A) pH;

(B) Alkalinity;

(C) Orthophosphate, when an inhibitor containing an orthophosphate compound is used;

(D) Silica, when an inhibitor containing a silicate compound is used.

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section, at each entry point to the distribution system, at least one sample no less frequently than every two weeks (biweekly) for:

(A) pH;

(B) When alkalinity is adjusted as part of optimal corrosion control, a reading of the dosage rate of the chemical used to adjust alkalinity, and the alkalinity concentration; and

(C) When a corrosion inhibitor is used as part of optimal corrosion control, a reading of the dosage rate of the inhibitor used, and the concentration of orthophosphate or silica (whichever is applicable).

(iii) Any groundwater system can limit entry point sampling described in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section to those entry points that are representative of water quality and treatment conditions throughout the system. If water from untreated groundwater sources mixes with water from treated groundwater sources, the system must monitor for water quality parameters both at representative entry points receiving treatment and representative entry points receiving no treatment. Prior to the start of any monitoring under this paragraph (c)(1)(iii), the water system must provide to the State, written information identifying the selected entry points and documentation, including information on seasonal variability, sufficient to demonstrate that the sites are representative of water quality and treatment conditions throughout the system.

(2) States have the discretion to require small and medium-size systems with treatment for which the State has not designated OWQPs that exceed the lead trigger level but not the lead and copper action levels to conduct water quality parameter monitoring as described in paragraph (c)(1) of this section or the State can develop its own water quality control parameter monitoring structure for these systems.
