
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.87 Monitoring requirements for water quality parameters.
####### Monitoring after State specifies water quality parameter values for optimal corrosion control.

(d)(1) After the State specifies the values for applicable water quality parameters reflecting optimal corrosion control treatment under § 141.82(f), systems must monitor for the specified optimal water quality parameters during 6-month periods that begin on either January 1 or July 1. Such monitoring must be spaced evenly throughout the 6-month monitoring period so as to reflect seasonal variability and be consistent with the structure specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (iii) of this section.

(i) All large systems must measure the applicable water quality parameters specified by the State and determine compliance with the requirements of § 141.82(g) every six months with the first 6-month period to begin on either January 1 or July 1, whichever comes first, after the State specifies the optimal values under § 141.82(f).

(ii) Any small or medium-size water system that exceeds an action level must begin monitoring during the six-month period immediately following the tap sampling monitoring period in which the exceedance occurs and continue monitoring until the water system no longer exceeds the lead and copper action levels and meets the optimal water quality control parameters in two consecutive 6-month tap sampling monitoring periods under § 141.86(d)(3). For any such small and medium-size system that is subject to a reduced monitoring frequency pursuant to § 141.86(d)(4) at the time of the action level exceedance, the start of the applicable 6-month monitoring period under this paragraph must coincide with the start of the applicable tap sampling monitoring period under § 141.86(d)(4).

(iii) Compliance with State-designated optimal water quality parameter values must be determined as specified under § 141.82(g).

(2) Any small or medium-size system that exceeds the lead trigger level, but not the lead and copper action levels for which the State has set optimal water quality control parameters must monitor as specified in paragraph (d)(1) of this section every six month, until the system no longer exceeds the lead trigger level in two consecutive tap sampling monitoring periods.

(3) States have the discretion to continue to require systems described in paragraph (d)(2) of this section to monitor optimal water quality control parameters.
