
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.88 Monitoring requirements for lead and copper in source water.
####### Monitoring frequency after State specifies maximum permissible source water levels.

(d)(1) A system shall monitor at the frequency specified in paragraphs (d)(1) and (2) of this section, in cases where the State specifies maximum permissible source water levels under ยง 141.83(b)(4).

(i) A water system using only groundwater shall collect samples once during the three-year compliance period (as that term is defined in ยง 141.2) in effect when the applicable State determination under paragraph (d)(1) of this section is made. Such systems shall collect samples once during each subsequent compliance period. Triennial samples shall be collected every third calendar year.

(ii) A water system using surface water (or a combination of surface and ground water) shall collect samples once during each calendar year, the first annual monitoring period to begin during the year in which the applicable State determination is made under paragraph (d)(1) of this section.

(2) A system is not required to conduct source water sampling for lead and/or copper if the system meets the action level for the specific contaminant in tap water samples during the entire source water sampling period applicable to the system under paragraph (d)(1) (i) or (ii) of this section.
