
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.90 Reporting requirements.
####### Reporting requirements for a community water system's public education and sampling in schools and child care facilities.

(i)(1) A community water system shall send a report to the State by July 1 of each year for the previous calendar year's activity. The report must include the following:

(i) Certification that the water system made a good faith effort to identify schools and child care facilities in accordance with § 141.92(e). The good faith effort may include reviewing customer records and requesting lists of schools and child care facilities from the primacy agency or other licensing agency. A water system that certifies that no schools or child care facilities are served by the water system is not required to include information in paragraphs (i)(1)(ii) through (iv) of this section in the report. If there are changes to schools and child care facilities that a water system serves, an updated list must be submitted at least once every five years in accordance with § 141.92(e).

(ii) Certification that the water system has delivered information about health risks from lead in drinking water to the school and child care facilities that they serve in accordance with § 141.92(a)(2) and (g)(1).

(iii) Certification that the water system has completed the notification and sampling requirements of § 141.92 and paragraphs (i)(1)(iii)(A) through (E) of this section at a minimum of 20 percent of elementary schools and 20 percent of child care facilities. Certification that the water system has completed the notification and sampling requirements of § 141.92(g) and paragraphs (i)(1)(iii)(A), (B), and (E) of this section for any secondary school(s) sampled. After a water system has successfully completed one cycle of required sampling in all elementary schools and child care facilities identified in § 141.92(a)(1), it shall certify completion of the notification and sampling requirements of § 141.92(g) and paragraphs (i)(1)(iii)(A), (B), and (E) of this section for all sampling completed in any school or child care facility, thereafter.

(A) The number of schools and child care facilities served by the water system;

(B) The number of schools and child care facilities sampled in the calendar year;

(C) The number of schools and child care facilities that have refused sampling;

(D) Information pertaining to outreach attempts for sampling that were declined by the school or child care facility; and

(E) The analytical results for all schools and child care facilities sampled by the water system in the calendar year.

(iv) Certification that sampling results were provided to schools, child care facilities, and local and State health departments.

(2) [Reserved]

(3) The State has provided the results of the 90th percentile lead and copper calculations, in writing, to the water system before the end of the monitoring period.
