
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.90 Reporting requirements.
####### Lead service line inventory and replacement reporting requirements.

(e)Water systems must report the following information to the State to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of §§ 141.84 and 141.85:

(1) No later than October 16, 2024, the water system must submit to the State an inventory of service lines as required in § 141.84(a).

(2) No later than October 16, 2024, any water system that has inventoried a lead service line, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service line in its distribution system must submit to the State, as specified in § 141.84(b), a lead service line replacement plan.

(3) The water system must provide the State with updated versions of its inventory as required in § 141.84(a) in accordance with its tap sampling monitoring period schedule as required in § 141.86(d), but no more frequently than annually. The updated inventory must be submitted within 30 days of the end of each tap sampling monitoring period.

(i) When the water system has demonstrated that it has no lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service lines in its inventory, it is no longer required to submit inventory updates to the State, except as required in paragraph (e)(3)(ii) of this section.

(ii) In the case that a water system meeting the requirements of paragraph (e)(3)(i) of this section, subsequently discovers any service lines requiring replacement in its distribution system, it must notify the State within 30 days of identifying the service line(s) and prepare an updated inventory in accordance with § 141.84(a) on a schedule established by the State.

(4) Within 30 days of the end of each tap sampling monitoring period, the water system must certify that it conducted replacement of any encountered lead goosenecks, pigtails, and connectors in accordance with § 141.84(c).

(5) Within 30 days of the end of each tap sampling monitoring period, the water system must certify to the State that any partial and full lead service line replacements were conducted in accordance with § 141.84(d) and (e), respectively.

(6) If the water system fails to meet the 45-day deadline to complete a customer-initiated lead service line replacement pursuant to § 141.84(d)(4), it must notify the State within 30 days of the replacement deadline to request an extension of the deadline up to 180 days of the customer-initiated lead service line replacement.

(i) The water system must certify annually that it has completed all customer-initiated lead service line replacements in accordance with § 141.84(d)(4).

(ii) [Reserved]

(7) No later than 30 days after the end of the water system's annual lead service line replacement requirements under § 141.84(f) and (g), the water system must submit the following information to the State, and continue to submit it each year it conducts lead service line replacement under § 141.84(f) and (g):

(i) The number of lead service lines in the initial inventory;

(ii) The number of galvanized requiring replacement service lines in the initial inventory;

(iii) The number of lead status unknown service lines in the inventory at the onset of the water system's annual lead service line replacement program;

(iv) The number of full lead service lines that have been replaced and the address associated with each replaced service line;

(v) The number of galvanized requiring replacement service lines that have been replaced and the address associated with each replaced service line;

(vi) The number of lead status unknown service lines remaining in the inventory;

(vii) The total number of lead status unknown service lines determined to be non-lead; and

(viii) The total number of service lines initially inventoried as "non-lead" later discovered to be a lead service line or a galvanized requiring replacement service line.

(8) No later than 30 days after the end of each tap sampling period, any water system that has received customer refusals about lead service line replacements or customer non-responses after a minimum of two good faith efforts by the water system to contact customers regarding full lead service line replacements in accordance with § 141.84(g)(7), must certify to the State the number of customer refusals or non-responses it received from customers served by a lead service line or galvanized requiring replacement service line, and maintain such documentation.

(9) No later than 12 months after the end of a tap sampling period in which a water system exceeds the lead action level in sampling conducted pursuant to § 141.86, the system must provide to the State its schedule for annually replacing an average annual rate, calculated on a two year rolling basis, of at least three percent, or otherwise specified in § 141.84(g)(9), of the number of known lead service lines and galvanized lines requiring replacement when the lead trigger or action level was first exceeded and lead status unknown service lines at the beginning of each year that required replacement occurs in its distribution system.

(10) No later than 12 months after the end of a sampling period in which a system exceeds the lead trigger level in sampling conducted pursuant to § 141.86, and every 12 months thereafter, the system shall certify to the State in writing that the system has:

(i) Conducted consumer notification as specified in §§ 141.84(f)(4) and 141.85(g) and

(ii) Delivered public education materials to the affected consumers as specified in § 141.85(a).

(iii) A water system that does not meet its annual service line replacement goal as required under § 141.84(f) must certify to the State in writing that the water system has conducted public outreach as specified in § 141.85(h). The water system must also submit the outreach materials used to the State.

(11) The annual submission to the State under paragraph (e)(10) of this section must contain the following information:

(i) The certification that results of samples collected between three months and six months after the date of a full or partial lead service line replacement were provided to the resident in accordance with the timeframes in § 141.85(d)(2). Mailed notices post-marked within three business days of receiving the results shall be considered "on time."

(ii) [Reserved]

(12) Any system which collects samples following a partial lead service line replacement required by § 141.84 must report the results to the State within the first ten days of the month following the month in which the system receives the laboratory results, or as specified by the State. States, at their discretion may eliminate this requirement to report these monitoring results, but water systems shall still retain such records. Systems must also report any additional information as specified by the State, and in a time and manner prescribed by the State, to verify that all partial lead service line replacement activities have taken place.

(13) Any system with lead service lines in its inventory must certify on an annual basis that the system has complied with the consumer notification of lead service line materials as specified in § 141.85(e).
