
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.90 Reporting requirements.
####### Public education program reporting requirements.

(f)(1) Any water system that is subject to the public education requirements in § 141.85 shall, within ten days after the end of each period in which the system is required to perform public education in accordance with § 141.85(b), send written documentation to the State that contains:

(i) The public education materials that were delivered, and a demonstration that the water system has delivered the public education materials that meet the content requirements in § 141.85(a) and the delivery requirements in § 141.85(b); and

(ii) A list of all the newspapers, radio stations, television stations, and facilities and organizations to which the system delivered public education materials during the period in which the system was required to perform public education tasks.

(2) Unless required by the State, a system that previously has submitted the information required by paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section need not resubmit the information required by paragraph (f)(1)(ii) of this section, as long as there have been no changes in the distribution list and the system certifies that the public education materials were distributed to the same list submitted previously.

(3) No later than three months following the end of the tap sampling period, each water system must mail a sample copy of the consumer notification of tap results to the State along with a certification that the notification has been distributed in a manner consistent with the requirements of § 141.85(d).

(4) Annually by July 1, the water system must demonstrate to the State that it delivered annual consumer notification and delivered lead service line information materials to affected consumers with a lead, galvanized requiring replacement, or lead status unknown service line in accordance with § 141.85(e) for the previous calendar year. The water system shall also provide a copy of the notification and information materials to the State.

(5) Annually by July 1, the water system must demonstrate to the State that it conducted an outreach activity in accordance with § 141.85(h) when failing to meet the lead service line replacement goal as specified in § 141.84(f) for the previous calendar year. The water system shall also submit a copy to the State of the outreach provided.

(6) Annually, by July 1, the water system must certify to the State that it delivered notification to affected customers after any lead service line disturbance in accordance with § 141.85(f) for the previous calendar year. The water system shall also submit a copy of the notification to the State.

(7) Annually, by July 1, the water system must certify to the State that it delivered the required find-and-fix information to the State and local health departments for the previous calendar year.
