
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.90 Reporting requirements.
####### Reporting requirements for small system compliance flexibility options.

(j)By the applicable dates provided in paragraphs (j)(1) and (2), water systems implementing requirements pursuant to § 141.93, shall provide the following information to the State:

(1) Small water systems and non-transient, non-community water systems implementing the point-of-use device option under § 141.93(a)(3), shall report the results from the tap sampling required under § 141.93 no later than 10 days after the end of the tap sampling monitoring period. If the trigger level is exceeded, the water system must reach out to the homeowner and/or building management within 24 hours of receiving the tap sample results. The corrective action must be completed within 30 days. If the corrective action is not completed within 30 days, the system must provide documentation to the State within 30 days explaining why it was unable to correct the issue. Water systems selecting the point-of-use device option under § 141.93(a)(3) shall provide documentation to certify maintenance of the point-of-use devices unless the State waives the requirement of this paragraph (j)(1).

(2) Small community water systems and non-transient, non-community water systems implementing the small system compliance flexibility option to replace all lead-bearing plumbing under § 141.93(a)(4) must provide certification to the State that all lead-bearing material has been replaced on the schedule established by the State, within one year of designation of the option under § 141.93(a)(4).
