
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### § 141.92 Monitoring for lead in schools and child care facilities.
####### Lead sampling in schools and child care facilities on request.

(g)(1) A water system must contact schools and child care facilities identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section on at least an annual basis to provide:

(i) Information about health risks from lead in drinking water;

(ii) Information about how to request sampling for lead at the facility; and

(iii) Information about sampling for lead in schools and child care facilities (EPA's 3Ts for Reducing Lead in Drinking Water Toolkit, EPA-815-B-18-007, or subsequent EPA guidance).

(2) A water system must conduct sampling as specified in paragraph (b) of this section when requested by the facility and provide:

(i) Instructions for identifying outlets for sampling and preparing for a sampling event at least 30 days prior to the event; and

(ii) Results as specified in paragraph (f) of this section.

(3) If a water system receives requests from more than 20 percent of the schools and child care facilities identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in a given year, the water system may schedule sampling for those that exceed 20 percent for the following year. A water system is not required to sample an individual school or child care facility more than once every five years.

(4) If voluntary sampling for lead in drinking water is conducted for schools and child care facilities served by a community water system that meets the requirements of this section, the State may exempt the water system from the requirements of this section by issuing a written waiver in accordance with paragraph (d) of this section.

Any system subject to the requirements of this subpart shall retain on its premises original records of all sampling data and analyses, reports, surveys, letters, evaluations, schedules, State determinations, and any other information required by §§ 141.81 through 141.88, 141.90, 141.92, and 141.93. Each water system shall retain the records required by this section for no fewer than 12 years.
