
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.92 Monitoring for lead in schools and child care facilities.
####### Frequency of sampling at elementary schools and child care facilities.

(c)(1) Water systems shall collect samples from at least 20 percent of elementary schools served by the system and 20 percent of child care facilities served by the system per year, or according to a schedule approved by the State, until all schools and child care facilities identified under paragraph (a)(1) of this section have been sampled or have declined to participate. For the purposes of this section, a water system may count a refusal or non-response from an elementary school or child care facility as part of the minimum 20 percent per year.

(2) All elementary schools and child care facilities must be sampled at least once in the five years following the compliance date in ยง 141.80(a)(3).

(3) After a water system has completed one required cycle of sampling in all elementary schools and child care facilities, a water system must sample at the request of an elementary school or child care facility in accordance with paragraph (g) of this section.

(4) A water system must sample at the request of a secondary school as specified in paragraph (g) of this section. If a water system receives requests from more than 20 percent of secondary schools identified in paragraph (a)(1) of this section in any of the five years following the compliance date in ยง 141.80(a)(3), the water system may schedule the requests that exceed 20 percent for the following year and is not required to sample an individual secondary school more than once in the five year period.
