
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.92 Monitoring for lead in schools and child care facilities.
####### Lead sampling in schools and child care facilities.

(b)(1) Five samples per school and two samples per child care facility at outlets typically used for consumption shall be collected. Except as provided in paragraphs (b)(1)(i) through (vi) of this section, the outlets shall not have point-of-use (POU) devices. The water system shall sample at the following locations:

(i) For schools: two drinking water fountains, one kitchen faucet used for food or drink preparation, one classroom faucet or other outlet used for drinking, and one nurse's office faucet, as available.

(ii) For child care facilities: one drinking water fountain and one of either a kitchen faucet used for preparation of food or drink or one classroom faucet or other outlet used for drinking.

(iii) If any facility has fewer than the required number of outlets, the water system must sample all outlets used for consumption.

(iv) The water system may sample at outlets with POU devices if the facility has POU devices installed on all outlets typically used for consumption.

(v) If any facility does not contain the type of faucet listed above, the water system shall collect a sample from another outlet typically used for consumption as identified by the facility.

(vi) Water systems must collect the samples from the cold water tap subject to the following additional requirements:

(A) Each sample for lead shall be a first draw sample;

(B) The sample must be 250 ml in volume;

(C) The water must have remained stationary in the plumbing system of the sampling site (building) for at least 8 but no more than 18 hours; and

(D) Samples must be analyzed using acidification and the corresponding analytical methods in ยง 141.89.

(2) The water system, school or child care facility, or other appropriately trained individual may collect samples in accordance with paragraph (b)(1) of this section.
