
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.93 Small water system compliance flexibility.
####### Point-of-use devices.

(3)A water system must install, maintain, and monitor POU devices in each household or building even if its 90th percentile is at or below the action level in future tap sampling monitoring periods.

(i)(A) A community water system must install a minimum of one POU device (at one tap) in every household and at every tap that is used for cooking and/or drinking in every non-residential building in its distribution system on a schedule specified by the State, but not to exceed one year.

(B) A non-transient, non-community water system must provide a POU device to every tap that is used for cooking and/or drinking on a schedule specified by the State, but not to exceed three months.

(ii) The POU device must be independently certified by a third party to meet the American National Standards Institute standard applicable to the specific type of POU unit to reduce lead in drinking water.

(iii) The POU device must be maintained by the water system according to manufacturer's recommendations to ensure continued effective filtration, including but not limited to changing filter cartridges and resolving any operational issues. POU device must be equipped with mechanical warnings to ensure that customers are automatically notified of operational problems. The water system shall provide documentation to the state to certify maintenance of the point-of-use devices, unless the state waives this requirement, in accordance with ยง 141.90(j)(1).

(iv) The water system must monitor one-third of the POU devices each year and all POU devices must be monitored within a three-year cycle. First draw tap samples collected under this section must be taken after water passes through the POU device to assess its performance. Samples must be one-liter in volume and have had a minimum 6-hour stagnation time. All samples must be at or below the lead trigger level. The water systems must report the results from the tap sampling no later than 10 days after the end of the tap sampling monitoring period in accordance with ยง 141.90(j)(1). The system must document the problem and take corrective action at any site where the sample result exceeds the lead trigger level. If the trigger level is exceeded, the water system must reach out to the homeowner and/or building management no later than 24 hours of receiving the tap sample results. The corrective action must be completed within 30 days. If the corrective action is not completed within 30 days, the system must provide documentation to the State within 30 days explaining why it was unable to correct the issue.

(v) The water system must provide public education to consumers in accordance with ยง 141.85(j) to inform them on proper use of POU devices to maximize the units' lead level reduction effectiveness.

(vi) The water system must operate and maintain the POU devices until the system receives State approval to select one of the other compliance flexibility options and implements it.
