
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart J - Use of Non-Centralized Treatment Devices
###### ยง 141.100 Criteria and procedures for public water systems using point-of-entry devices.

(a) Public water systems may use point-of-entry devices to comply with maximum contaminant levels only if they meet the requirements of this section.

(b) It is the responsibility of the public water system to operate and maintain the point-of-entry treatment system.

(c) The public water system must develop and obtain State approval for a monitoring plan before point-of-entry devices are installed for compliance. Under the plan approved by the State, point-of-entry devices must provide health protection equivalent to central water treatment. "Equivalent" means that the water would meet all national primary drinking water regulations and would be of acceptable quality similar to water distributed by a well-operated central treatment plant. In addition to the VOCs, monitoring must include physical measurements and observations such as total flow treated and mechanical condition of the treatment equipment.

(d) Effective technology must be properly applied under a plan approved by the State and the microbiological safety of the water must be maintained.

(1) The State must require adequate certification of performance, field testing, and, if not included in the certification process, a rigorous engineering design review of the point-of-entry devices.

(2) The design and application of the point-of-entry devices must consider the tendency for increase in heterotrophic bacteria concentrations in water treated with activated carbon. It may be necessary to use frequent backwashing, post-contactor disinfection, and Heterotrophic Plate Count monitoring to ensure that the microbiological safety of the water is not compromised.
