
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart I - Control of Lead and Copper
###### ยง 141.93 Small water system compliance flexibility.
####### Replacement of lead-bearing plumbing.

(4)A water system that has control over all plumbing in its buildings, and no unknown, galvanized, or lead service lines, must replace all plumbing that is not lead free in accordance with Section 1417 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, as amended by the Reduction of Lead in Drinking Water Act and any future amendments applicable at the time of replacement. The replacement of all lead-bearing plumbing must occur on a schedule established by the State but not to exceed one year. Water systems must provide certification to the State that all lead-bearing material has been replaced in accordance with ยง 141.90(j)(2).

(b)(1) A water system that exceeds the lead action level after exceeding the lead trigger level but does not exceed the copper action level must implement the compliance option approved by the State under paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) A water system that exceeds the lead action level, but has not previously exceeded the lead trigger level, and does not exceed the copper action level must complete the provisions in paragraph (a) of this section and must implement the compliance option approved by the State under paragraph (a) of this section.

(3) A water system that exceeds the trigger level after it has implemented a compliance option approved by the State under paragraph (a) of this section, must complete the steps in paragraph (a) and if it thereafter exceeds the action level, it must implement the compliance option approved by the State under paragraph (a) of this section.
