
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart L - Disinfectant Residuals, Disinfection Byproducts, and Disinfection Byproduct Precursors
###### ยง 141.131 Analytical requirements.
####### Dissolved Organic Carbon (DOC).

(i)Standard Method 5310 B or 5310 B-00 (High-Temperature Combustion Method) or Standard Method 5310 C or 5310 C-00 (Persulfate-Ultraviolet or Heated-Persulfate Oxidation Method) or Standard Method 5310 D or 5310 D-00 (Wet-Oxidation Method) or EPA Method 415.3 Revision 1.1. DOC samples must be filtered through the 0.45 &#x3BC;m pore-diameter filter as soon as practical after sampling, not to exceed 48 hours. After filtration, DOC samples must be acidified to achieve pH less than or equal to 2 with minimal addition of the acid specified in the method or by the instrument manufacturer. Acidified DOC samples must be analyzed within 28 days of sample collection. Inorganic carbon must be removed from the samples prior to analysis. Water passed through the filter prior to filtration of the sample must serve as the filtered blank. This filtered blank must be analyzed using procedures identical to those used for analysis of the samples and must meet the following criteria: DOC <0.5 mg/L.

(ii) Ultraviolet Absorption at 254 nm (UV). Standard Method 5910 B or 5910 B-00 (Ultraviolet Absorption Method) or EPA Method 415.3 Revision 1.1. UV absorption must be measured at 253.7 nm (may be rounded off to 254 nm). Prior to analysis, UVsamples must be filtered through a 0.45 &#x3BC;m pore-diameter filter. The pH of UVsamples may not be adjusted. Samples must be analyzed as soon as practical after sampling, not to exceed 48 hours.
