
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart L - Disinfectant Residuals, Disinfection Byproducts, and Disinfection Byproduct Precursors
###### § 141.135 Treatment technique for control of disinfection byproduct (DBP) precursors.
####### Alternative compliance criteria for enhanced coagulation and enhanced softening systems.

(2)Subpart H systems using conventional filtration treatment may use the alternative compliance criteria in paragraphs (a)(2)(i) through (vi) of this section to comply with this section in lieu of complying with paragraph (b) of this section. Systems must still comply with monitoring requirements in § 141.132(d).

(i) The system's source water TOC level, measured according to § 141.131(d)(3), is less than 2.0 mg/L, calculated quarterly as a running annual average.

(ii) The system's treated water TOC level, measured according to § 141.131(d)(3), is less than 2.0 mg/L, calculated quarterly as a running annual average.

(iii) The system's source water TOC level, measured according to § 141.131(d)(3), is less than 4.0 mg/L, calculated quarterly as a running annual average; the source water alkalinity, measured according to § 141.131(d)(1), is greater than 60 mg/L (as CaCO), calculated quarterly as a running annual average; and either the TTHM and HAA5 running annual averages are no greater than 0.040 mg/L and 0.030 mg/L, respectively; or prior to the effective date for compliance in § 141.130(b), the system has made a clear and irrevocable financial commitment not later than the effective date for compliance in § 141.130(b) to use of technologies that will limit the levels of TTHMs and HAA5 to no more than 0.040 mg/L and 0.030 mg/L, respectively. Systems must submit evidence of a clear and irrevocable financial commitment, in addition to a schedule containing milestones and periodic progress reports for installation and operation of appropriate technologies, to the State for approval not later than the effective date for compliance in § 141.130(b). These technologies must be installed and operating not later than June 30, 2005. Failure to install and operate these technologies by the date in the approved schedule will constitute a violation of National Primary Drinking Water Regulations.

(iv) The TTHM and HAA5 running annual averages are no greater than 0.040 mg/L and 0.030 mg/L, respectively, and the system uses only chlorine for primary disinfection and maintenance of a residual in the distribution system.

(v) The system's source water SUVA, prior to any treatment and measured monthly according to § 141.131(d)(4), is less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg-m, calculated quarterly as a running annual average.

(vi) The system's finished water SUVA, measured monthly according to § 141.131(d)(4), is less than or equal to 2.0 L/mg-m, calculated quarterly as a running annual average.
