
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart L - Disinfectant Residuals, Disinfection Byproducts, and Disinfection Byproduct Precursors
###### ยง 141.135 Treatment technique for control of disinfection byproduct (DBP) precursors.
####### Compliance calculations.

(c)(1) Subpart H systems other than those identified in paragraph (a)(2) or (a)(3) of this section must comply with requirements contained in paragraph (b)(2) or (b)(3) of this section. Systems must calculate compliance quarterly, beginning after the system has collected 12 months of data, by determining an annual average using the following method:

(i) Determine actual monthly TOC percent removal, equal to:

(ii) Determine the required monthly TOC percent removal (from either the table in paragraph (b)(2) of this section or from paragraph (b)(3) of this section).

(iii) Divide the value in paragraph (c)(1)(i) of this section by the value in paragraph (c)(1)(ii) of this section.

(iv) Add together the results of paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section for the last 12 months and divide by 12.

(v) If the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iv) of this section is less than 1.00, the system is not in compliance with the TOC percent removal requirements.

(2) Systems may use the provisions in paragraphs (c)(2)(i) through (v) of this section in lieu of the calculations in paragraph (c)(1)(i) through (v) of this section to determine compliance with TOC percent removal requirements.

(i) In any month that the system's treated or source water TOC level, measured according to ยง 141.131(d)(3), is less than 2.0 mg/L, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section) when calculating compliance under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(ii) In any month that a system practicing softening removes at least 10 mg/L of magnesium hardness (as CaCO), the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section) when calculating compliance under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iii) In any month that the system's source water SUVA, prior to any treatment and measured according to ยง 141.131(d)(4), is &#x2264;2.0 L/mg-m, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section) when calculating compliance under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(iv) In any month that the system's finished water SUVA, measured according to ยง 141.131(d)(4), is &#x2264;2.0 L/mg-m, the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section) when calculating compliance under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(v) In any month that a system practicing enhanced softening lowers alkalinity below 60 mg/L (as CaCO), the system may assign a monthly value of 1.0 (in lieu of the value calculated in paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this section) when calculating compliance under the provisions of paragraph (c)(1) of this section.

(3) Subpart H systems using conventional treatment may also comply with the requirements of this section by meeting the criteria in paragraph (a)(2) or (3) of this section.
