
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart P - Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection - Systems Serving 10,000 or More People
###### § 141.170 General requirements.
####### Cryptosporidium,Cryptosporidium

(1) At least 99 percent (2-log) removal ofbetween a point where the raw water is not subject to recontamination by surface water runoff and a point downstream before or at the first customer for filtered systems, orcontrol under the watershed control plan for unfiltered systems.

(2) Compliance with the profiling and benchmark requirements under the provisions of § 141.172.

(b) A public water system subject to the requirements of this subpart is considered to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this section if:

(1) It meets the requirements for avoiding filtration in §§ 141.71 and 141.171 and the disinfection requirements in §§ 141.72 and 141.172; or

(2) It meets the applicable filtration requirements in either § 141.73 or § 141.173 and the disinfection requirements in §§ 141.72 and 141.172.

(c) Systems are not permitted to begin construction of uncovered finished water storage facilities beginning February 16, 1999.

(d) Subpart H systems that did not conduct optional monitoring under § 141.172 because they served fewer than 10,000 persons when such monitoring was required, but serve more than 10,000 persons prior to January 1, 2005 must comply with §§ 141.170, 141.171, 141.173, 141.174, and 141.175. These systems must also consult with the State to establish a disinfection benchmark. A system that decides to make a significant change to its disinfection practice, as described in § 141.172(c)(1)(i) through (iv) must consult with the State prior to making such change.
