
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart P - Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection - Systems Serving 10,000 or More People
###### ยง 141.172 Disinfection profiling and benchmarking.
####### Disinfection profiling.

(b)(1) Any system that meets the criteria in paragraph (a)(6) of this section must develop a disinfection profile of its disinfection practice for a period of up to three years.

(2) The system must monitor daily for a period of 12 consecutive calendar months to determine the total logs of inactivation for each day of operation, based on the CT99.9 values in Tables 1.1-1.6, 2.1, and 3.1 of ยง 141.74(b), as appropriate, through the entire treatment plant. This system must begin this monitoring not later than April 1, 2000. As a minimum, the system with a single point of disinfectant application prior to entrance to the distribution system must conduct the monitoring in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section. A system with more than one point of disinfectant application must conduct the monitoring in paragraphs (b)(2)(i) through (iv) of this section for each disinfection segment. The system must monitor the parameters necessary to determine the total inactivation ratio, using analytical methods in ยง 141.74(a), as follows:

(i) The temperature of the disinfected water must be measured once per day at each residual disinfectant concentration sampling point during peak hourly flow.

(ii) If the system uses chlorine, the pH of the disinfected water must be measured once per day at each chlorine residual disinfectant concentration sampling point during peak hourly flow.

(iii) The disinfectant contact time(s) ("T") must be determined for each day during peak hourly flow.

(iv) The residual disinfectant concentration(s) ("C") of the water before or at the first customer and prior to each additional point of disinfection must be measured each day during peak hourly flow.

(3) In lieu of the monitoring conducted under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section to develop the disinfection profile, the system may elect to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(i) of this section. In addition to the monitoring conducted under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section to develop the disinfection profile, the system may elect to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(3)(ii) of this section.
