
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart P - Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection - Systems Serving 10,000 or More People
###### § 141.172 Disinfection profiling and benchmarking.
####### Giardia lamblia

(i) A PWS that has three years of existing operational data may submit those data, a profile generated using those data, and a request that the State approve use of those data in lieu of monitoring under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section not later than March 31, 2000. The State must determine whether these operational data are substantially equivalent to data collected under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section. These data must also be representative ofinactivation through the entire treatment plant and not just of certain treatment segments. Until the State approves this request, the system is required to conduct monitoring under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section.

(ii) In addition to the disinfection profile generated under paragraph (b)(2) of this section, a PWS that has existing operational data may use those data to develop a disinfection profile for additional years. Such systems may use these additional yearly disinfection profiles to develop a benchmark under the provisions of paragraph (c) of this section. The State must determine whether these operational data are substantially equivalent to data collected under the provisions of paragraph (b)(2) of this section. These data must also be representative of inactivation through the entire treatment plant and not just of certain treatment segments.

(4) The system must calculate the total inactivation ratio as follows:

(i) If the system uses only one point of disinfectant application, the system may determine the total inactivation ratio for the disinfection segment based on either of the methods in paragraph (b)(4)(i)(A) or (b)(4)(i)(B) of this section.

(A) Determine one inactivation ratio (CTcalc/CT) before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow.

(B) Determine successive CTcalc/CTvalues, representing sequential inactivation ratios, between the point of disinfectant application and a point before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow. Under this alternative, the system must calculate the total inactivation ratio by determining (CTcalc/CT) for each sequence and then adding the (CTcalc/CT) values together to determine (Σ (CTcalc/CT)).

(ii) If the system uses more than one point of disinfectant application before the first customer, the system must determine the CT value of each disinfection segment immediately prior to the next point of disinfectant application, or for the final segment, before or at the first customer, during peak hourly flow. The (CTcalc/CT) value of each segment and (Σ(CTcalc/CT)) must be calculated using the method in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this section.

(iii) The system must determine the total logs of inactivation by multiplying the value calculated in paragraph (b)(4)(i) or (ii) of this section by 3.0.

(5) A system that uses either chloramines or ozone for primary disinfection must also calculate the logs of inactivation for viruses using a method approved by the State.

(6) The system must retain disinfection profile data in graphic form, as a spreadsheet, or in some other format acceptable to the State for review as part of sanitary surveys conducted by the State.
