
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart P - Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection - Systems Serving 10,000 or More People
###### § 141.172 Disinfection profiling and benchmarking.
####### Determination of systems required to profile.

(a)A public water system subject to the requirements of this subpart must determine its TTHM annual average using the procedure in paragraph (a)(1) of this section and its HAA5 annual average using the procedure in paragraph (a)(2) of this section. The annual average is the arithmetic average of the quarterly averages of four consecutive quarters of monitoring.

(1) The TTHM annual average must be the annual average during the same period as is used for the HAA5 annual average.

(i) Those systems that collected data under the provisions of subpart M (Information Collection Rule) must use the results of the samples collected during the last four quarters of required monitoring under § 141.142.

(ii) Those systems that use "grandfathered" HAA5 occurrence data that meet the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section must use TTHM data collected at the same time under the provisions of §§ 141.12 and 141.30.

(iii) Those systems that use HAA5 occurrence data that meet the provisions of paragraph (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section must use TTHM data collected at the same time under the provisions of §§ 141.12 and 141.30.

(2) The HAA5 annual average must be the annual average during the same period as is used for the TTHM annual average.

(i) Those systems that collected data under the provisions of subpart M (Information Collection Rule) must use the results of the samples collected during the last four quarters of required monitoring under § 141.142.

(ii) Those systems that have collected four quarters of HAA5 occurrence data that meets the routine monitoring sample number and location requirements for TTHM in §§ 141.12 and 141.30 and handling and analytical method requirements of § 141.142(b)(1) may use those data to determine whether the requirements of this section apply.

(iii) Those systems that have not collected four quarters of HAA5 occurrence data that meets the provisions of either paragraph (a)(2)(i) or (ii) of this section by March 16, 1999 must either:

(A) Conduct monitoring for HAA5 that meets the routine monitoring sample number and location requirements for TTHM in §§ 141.12 and 141.30 and handling and analytical method requirements of § 141.142(b)(1) to determine the HAA5 annual average and whether the requirements of paragraph (b) of this section apply. This monitoring must be completed so that the applicability determination can be made no later than March 31, 2000, or

(B) Comply with all other provisions of this section as if the HAA5 monitoring had been conducted and the results required compliance with paragraph (b) of this section.

(3) The system may request that the State approve a more representative annual data set than the data set determined under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for the purpose of determining applicability of the requirements of this section.

(4) The State may require that a system use a more representative annual data set than the data set determined under paragraph (a)(1) or (2) of this section for the purpose of determining applicability of the requirements of this section.

(5) The system must submit data to the State on the schedule in paragraphs (a)(5)(i) through (v) of this section.

(i) Those systems that collected TTHM and HAA5 data under the provisions of subpart M (Information Collection Rule), as required by paragraphs (a)(1)(i) and (a)(2)(i) of this section, must submit the results of the samples collected during the last 12 months of required monitoring under § 141.142 not later than December 31, 1999.

(ii) Those systems that have collected four consecutive quarters of HAA5 occurrence data that meets the routine monitoring sample number and location for TTHM in §§ 141.12 and 141.30 and handling and analytical method requirements of § 141.142(b)(1), as allowed by paragraphs (a)(1)(ii) and (a)(2)(ii) of this section, must submit those data to the State not later than April 16, 1999. Until the State has approved the data, the system must conduct monitoring for HAA5 using the monitoring requirements specified under paragraph (a)(2)(iii) of this section.

(iii) Those systems that conduct monitoring for HAA5 using the monitoring requirements specified by paragraphs (a)(1)(iii) and (a)(2)(iii)(A) of this section, must submit TTHM and HAA5 data not later than March 31, 2000.

(iv) Those systems that elect to comply with all other provisions of this section as if the HAA5 monitoring had been conducted and the results required compliance with this section, as allowed under paragraphs (a)(2)(iii)(B) of this section, must notify the State in writing of their election not later than December 31, 1999.

(v) If the system elects to request that the State approve a more representative annual data set than the data set determined under paragraph (a)(2)(i) of this section, the system must submit this request in writing not later than December 31, 1999.

(6) Any system having either a TTHM annual average ≥0.064 mg/L or an HAA5 annual average ≥0.048 mg/L during the period identified in paragraphs (a)(1) and (2) of this section must comply with paragraph (b) of this section.
