
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart P - Enhanced Filtration and Disinfection - Systems Serving 10,000 or More People
###### § 141.175 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.

In addition to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in § 141.75, a public water system subject to the requirements of this subpart that provides conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration must report monthly to the State the information specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this section beginning January 1, 2002. In addition to the reporting and recordkeeping requirements in § 141.75, a public water system subject to the requirements of this subpart that provides filtration approved under § 141.173(b) must report monthly to the State the information specified in paragraph (a) of this section beginning January 1, 2002. The reporting in paragraph (a) of this section is in lieu of the reporting specified in § 141.75(b)(1).

(a) Turbidity measurements as required by § 141.173 must be reported within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Information that must be reported includes:

(1) The total number of filtered water turbidity measurements taken during the month.

(2) The number and percentage of filtered water turbidity measurements taken during the month which are less than or equal to the turbidity limits specified in § 141.173(a) or (b).

(3) The date and value of any turbidity measurements taken during the month which exceed 1 NTU for systems using conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration, or which exceed the maximum level set by the State under § 141.173(b).

(b) Systems must maintain the results of individual filter monitoring taken under § 141.174 for at least three years. Systems must report that they have conducted individual filter turbidity monitoring under § 141.174 within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public. Systems must report individual filter turbidity measurement results taken under § 141.174 within 10 days after the end of each month the system serves water to the public only if measurements demonstrate one or more of the conditions in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. Systems that use lime softening may apply to the State for alternative exceedance levels for the levels specified in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section if they can demonstrate that higher turbidity levels in individual filters are due to lime carryover only and not due to degraded filter performance.

(1) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 1.0 NTU in two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must either produce a filter profile for the filter within 7 days of the exceedance (if the system is not able to identify an obvious reason for the abnormal filter performance) and report that the profile has been produced or report the obvious reason for the exceedance.

(2) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 0.5 NTU in two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart at the end of the first four hours of continuous filter operation after the filter has been backwashed or otherwise taken offline, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must either produce a filter profile for the filter within 7 days of the exceedance (if the system is not able to identify an obvious reason for the abnormal filter performance) and report that the profile has been produced or report the obvious reason for the exceedance.

(3) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 1.0 NTU in two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart at any time in each of three consecutive months, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must conduct a self-assessment of the filter within 14 days of the exceedance and report that the self-assessment was conducted. The self assessment must consist of at least the following components: assessment of filter performance; development of a filter profile; identification and prioritization of factors limiting filter performance; assessment of the applicability of corrections; and preparation of a filter self-assessment report.

(4) For any individual filter that has a measured turbidity level of greater than 2.0 NTU in two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart at any time in each of two consecutive months, the system must report the filter number, the turbidity measurement, and the date(s) on which the exceedance occurred. In addition, the system must arrange for the conduct of a comprehensive performance evaluation by the State or a third party approved by the State no later than 30 days following the exceedance and have the evaluation completed and submitted to the State no later than 90 days following the exceedance.
