
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart Q - Public Notification of Drinking Water Violations
###### ยง 141.201 General public notification requirements.
####### Who must be notified?,i.e.
######## When is the Tier 2 public notice to be provided?

(b)(1) Public water systems must provide the public notice as soon as practical, but no later than 30 days after the system learns of the violation. If the public notice is posted, the notice must remain in place for as long as the violation or situation persists, but in no case for less than seven days, even if the violation or situation is resolved. The primacy agency may, in appropriate circumstances, allow additional time for the initial notice of up to three months from the date the system learns of the violation. It is not appropriate for the primacy agency to grant an extension to the 30-day deadline for any unresolved violation or to allow across-the-board extensions by rule or policy for other violations or situations requiring a Tier 2 public notice. Extensions granted by the primacy agency must be in writing.

(2) The public water system must repeat the notice every three months as long as the violation or situation persists, unless the primacy agency determines that appropriate circumstances warrant a different repeat notice frequency. In no circumstance may the repeat notice be given less frequently than once per year. It is not appropriate for the primacy agency to allow less frequent repeat notice for an MCL or treatment technique violation under the Total Coliform Rule or subpart Y of this part or a treatment technique violation under the Surface Water Treatment Rule or Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule. It is also not appropriate for the primacy agency to allow through its rules or policies across-the-board reductions in the repeat notice frequency for other ongoing violations requiring a Tier 2 repeat notice. Primacy agency determinations allowing repeat notices to be given less frequently than once every three months must be in writing.
