
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart Q - Public Notification of Drinking Water Violations
###### Appendix B to Subpart Q of Part 141 - Standard Health Effects Language for Public Notification

&#x2020; Until March 31, 2016.

&#x2021; Beginning April 1, 2016.

1. MCLG-Maximum contaminant level goal

2. MCL-Maximum contaminant level

3. For water systems analyzing at least 40 samples per month, no more than 5.0 percent of the monthly samples may be positive for total coliforms. For systems analyzing fewer than 40 samples per month, no more than one sample per month may be positive for total coliforms.

4. There are various regulations that set turbidity standards for different types of systems, including 40 CFR 141.13, and the 1989 Surface Water Treatment Rule, the 1998 Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule and the 2002 Long Term 1 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule. The MCL for the monthly turbidity average is 1 NTU; the MCL for the 2-day average is 5 NTU for systems that are required to filter but have not yet installed filtration (40 CFR 141.13).

5. NTU-Nephelometric turbidity unit

6. There are various regulations that set turbidity standards for different types of systems, including 40 CFR 141.13, and the 1989 Surface Water Treatment Rule, the 1998 Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule and the 2001 Long Term 1 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule. Systems subject to the Surface Water Treatment Rule (both filtered and unfiltered) may not exceed 5 NTU. In addition, in filtered systems, 95 percent of samples each month must not exceed 0.5 NTU in systems using conventional or direct filtration and must not exceed 1 NTU in systems using slow sand or diatomaceous earth filtration or other filtration technologies approved by the primacy agency.

7. TT-Treatment technique

8. There are various regulations that set turbidity standards for different types of systems, including 40 CFR 141.13, the 1989 Surface Water Treatment Rule (SWTR), the 1998 Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (IESWTR) and the 2002 Long Term 1 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (LT1ESWTR). For systems subject to the IESWTR (systems serving at least 10,000 people, using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water), that use conventional filtration or direct filtration, after January 1, 2002, the turbidity level of a system's combined filter effluent may not exceed 0.3 NTU in at least 95 percent of monthly measurements, and the turbidity level of a system's combined filter effluent must not exceed 1 NTU at any time. Systems subject to the IESWTR using technologies other than conventional, direct, slow sand, or diatomaceous earth filtration must meet turbidity limits set by the primacy agency. For systems subject to the LT1ESWTR (systems serving fewer than 10,000 people, using surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water) that use conventional filtration or direct filtration, after January 1, 2005, the turbidity level of a system's combined filter effluent may not exceed 0.3 NTU in at least 95 percent of monthly measurements, and the turbidity level of a system's combined filter effluent must not exceed 1 NTU at any time. Systems subject to the LT1ESWTR using technologies other than conventional, direct, slow sand, or diatomaceous earth filtration must meet turbidity limits set by the primacy agency.

9. The bacteria detected by heterotrophic plate count (HPC) are not necessarily harmful. HPC is simply an alternative method of determining disinfectant residual levels. The number of such bacteria is an indicator of whether there is enough disinfectant in the distribution system.

10. SWTR, IESWTR, and LT1ESWTR treatment technique violations that involve turbidity exceedances may use the health effects language for turbidity instead.

11. These arsenic values are effective January 23, 2006. Until then, the MCL is 0.05 mg/L and there is no MCLG.

12. Millions fibers per liter.

13. Action Level = 0.015 mg/L

14. Action Level = 1.3 mg/L

15. Millirems per years

16. The uranium MCL is effective December 8, 2003 for all community water systems.

17. Picocuries per liter

18. Surface water systems and ground water systems under the direct influence of surface water are regulated under subpart H of 40 CFR 141. Subpart H community and non-transient non-community systems serving ≥10,000 must comply with subpart L DBP MCLs and disinfectant maximum residual disinfectant levels (MRDLs) beginning January 1, 2002. All other community and non-transient non-community systems must comply with subpart L DBP MCLs and disinfectant MRDLs beginning January 1, 2004. Subpart H transient non-community systems serving ≥10,000 that use chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorine dioxide MRDL beginning January 1, 2002. All other transient non-community systems that use chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorine dioxide MRDL beginning January 1, 2004.

19. Community and non-transient non-community systems must comply with subpart V TTHM and HAA5 MCLs of 0.080 mg/L and 0.060 mg/L, respectively (with compliance calculated as a locational running annual average) on the schedule in § 141.620.

20. The MCL for total trihalomethanes is the sum of the concentrations of the individual trihalomethanes.

21. The MCL for haloacetic acids is the sum of the concentrations of the individual haloacetic acids.

22. MRDLG-Maximum residual disinfectant level goal.

23. MRDL-Maximum residual disinfectant level.
