
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart Q - Public Notification of Drinking Water Violations
###### § 141.210 Notice by primacy agency on behalf of the public water system.
####### What is the responsibility of the public water system when notice is given by the primacy agency?
######## FR

7. Most of the requirements of the Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule (6369477) (§§ 141.170-141.171, 141.173-141.174) become effective January 1, 2002 for Subpart H systems (surface water systems and ground water systems under the direct influence of surface water) serving at least 10,000 persons. However, § 141.172 has some requirements that become effective as early as April 16, 1999. The Surface Water Treatment Rule remains in effect for systems serving at least 10,000 persons even after 2002; the Interim Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule adds additional requirements and does not in many cases supercede the SWTR.

8. The arsenic MCL citations are effective January 23, 2006. Until then, the citations are § 141.11(b) and § 141.23(n).

9. The uranium MCL Tier 2 violation citations are effective December 8, 2003 for all community water systems.

10. The uranium Tier 3 violation citations are effective December 8, 2000 for all community water systems.

11. The arsenic Tier 3 violation MCL citations are effective January 23, 2006. Until then, the citations are § 141.23(a), (l).

12. Failure to take a confirmation sample within 24 hours for nitrate or nitrite after an initial sample exceeds the MCL is a Tier 1 violation. Other monitoring violations for nitrate are Tier 3.

13. Subpart H community and non-transient non-community systems serving ≥10,000 must comply with new DBP MCLs, disinfectant MRDLs, and related monitoring requirements beginning January 1, 2002. All other community and non-transient non-community systems must meet the MCLs and MRDLs beginning January 1, 2004. Subpart H transient non-community systems serving 10,000 or more persons and using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorine dioxide MRDL beginning January 1, 2002. Subpart H transient non-community systems serving fewer than 10,000 persons and using only ground water not under the direct influence of surface water and using chlorine dioxide as a disinfectant or oxidant must comply with the chlorine dioxide MRDL beginning January 1, 2004.

14. §§ 141.64(b)(1) 141.132(a)-(b) apply until §§ 141.620-141.630 take effect under the schedule in § 141.620(c).

15. Failure to monitor for chlorine dioxide at the entrance to the distribution system the day after exceeding the MRDL at the entrance to the distribution system is a Tier 2 violation.

16. If any daily sample taken at the entrance to the distribution system exceeds the MRDL for chlorine dioxide and one or more samples taken in the distribution system the next day exceed the MRDL, Tier 1 notification is required. Failure to take the required samples in the distribution system after the MRDL is exceeded at the entry point also triggers Tier 1 notification.

17. Some water systems must monitor for certain unregulated contaminants listed in § 141.40.

18. This citation refers to §§ 1415 and 1416 of the Safe Drinking Water Act. §§ 1415 and 1416 require that "a schedule prescribed. . . for a public water system granted a variance [or exemption] shall require compliance by the system. . ."

19. In addition to §§ 1415 and 1416 of the Safe Drinking Water Act, 40 CFR 142.307 specifies the items and schedule milestones that must be included in a variance for small systems.

20. Other waterborne emergencies require a Tier 1 public notice under § 141.202(a) for situations that do not meet the definition of a waterborne disease outbreak given in 40 CFR 141.2 but that still have the potential to have serious adverse effects on health as a result of short-term exposure. These could include outbreaks not related to treatment deficiencies, as well as situations that have the potential to cause outbreaks, such as failures or significant interruption in water treatment processes, natural disasters that disrupt the water supply or distribution system, chemical spills, or unexpected loading of possible pathogens into the source water.

21. Primacy agencies may place other situations in any tier they believe appropriate, based on threat to public health.
