
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart S - Ground Water Rule
###### § 141.405 Reporting and recordkeeping for ground water systems.
####### Recordkeeping.

(b)In addition to the requirements of § 141.33, a ground water system regulated under this subpart must maintain the following information in its records:

(1) Documentation of corrective actions. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than ten years.

(2) Documentation of notice to the public as required under § 141.403(a)(7). Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than three years.

(3) Records of decisions under § 141.402(a)(5)(ii) and records of invalidation of fecal indicator-positive ground water source samples under § 141.402(d). Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.

(4) For consecutive systems, documentation of notification to the wholesale system(s) of total coliform-positive samples that are not invalidated under § 141.21(c) until March 31, 2016, or under § 141.853 beginning April 1, 2016. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.

(5) For systems, including wholesale systems, that are required to perform compliance monitoring under § 141.403(b):

(i) Records of the State-specified minimum disinfectant residual. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than ten years.

(ii) Records of the lowest daily residual disinfectant concentration and records of the date and duration of any failure to maintain the State-prescribed minimum residual disinfectant concentration for a period of more than four hours. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.

(iii) Records of State-specified compliance requirements for membrane filtration and of parameters specified by the State for State-approved alternative treatment and records of the date and duration of any failure to meet the membrane operating, membrane integrity, or alternative treatment operating requirements for more than four hours. Documentation shall be kept for a period of not less than five years.
