
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### ยง 141.601 Standard monitoring.
####### Standard monitoring.

(b)(1) You must monitor as indicated in the table in this paragraph (b)(1). You must collect dual sample sets at each monitoring location. One sample in the dual sample set must be analyzed for TTHM. The other sample in the dual sample set must be analyzed for HAA5. You must conduct one monitoring period during the peak historical month for TTHM levels or HAA5 levels or the month of warmest water temperature. You must review available compliance, study, or operational data to determine the peak historical month for TTHM or HAA5 levels or warmest water temperature.

(2) You must take samples at locations other than the existing subpart L monitoring locations. Monitoring locations must be distributed throughout the distribution system.

(3) If the number of entry points to the distribution system is fewer than the specified number of entry point monitoring locations, excess entry point samples must be replaced equally at high TTHM and HAA5 locations. If there is an odd extra location number, you must take a sample at a high TTHM location. If the number of entry points to the distribution system is more than the specified number of entry point monitoring locations, you must take samples at entry points to the distribution system having the highest annual water flows.

(4) Your monitoring under this paragraph (b) may not be reduced under the provisions of ยง 141.29 and the State may not reduce your monitoring using the provisions of ยง 142.16(m).
