
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### § 141.600 General requirements.
####### Schedule.

(c)(1) You must comply with the requirements of this subpart on the schedule in the table in this paragraph (c)(1).

(2) For the purpose of the schedule in paragraph (c)(1) of this section, the State may determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain consecutive systems based on factors such as receiving water from a wholesale system only on an emergency basis or receiving only a small percentage and small volume of water from a wholesale system. The State may also determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain wholesale systems based on factors such as delivering water to a consecutive system only on an emergency basis or delivering only a small percentage and small volume of water to a consecutive system.

(d) You must conduct standard monitoring that meets the requirements in § 141.601, or a system specific study that meets the requirements in § 141.602, or certify to the State that you meet 40/30 certification criteria under § 141.603, or qualify for a very small system waiver under § 141.604.

(1) You must have taken the full complement of routine TTHM and HAA5 compliance samples required of a system with your population and source water under subpart L of this part (or you must have taken the full complement of reduced TTHM and HAA5 compliance samples required of a system with your population and source water under subpart L if you meet reduced monitoring criteria under subpart L of this part) during the period specified in § 141.603(a) to meet the 40/30 certification criteria in § 141.603. You must have taken TTHM and HAA5 samples under §§ 141.131 and 141.132 to be eligible for the very small system waiver in § 141.604.

(2) If you have not taken the required samples, you must conduct standard monitoring that meets the requirements in § 141.601, or a system specific study that meets the requirements in § 141.602.

(e) You must use only the analytical methods specified in § 141.131, or otherwise approved by EPA for monitoring under this subpart, to demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this subpart.

(f) IDSE results will not be used for the purpose of determining compliance with MCLs in § 141.64.
