
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### ยง 141.602 System specific studies.
####### IDSE report.

(b)Your IDSE report must include the elements required in paragraphs (b)(1) through (b)(6) of this section. You must submit your IDSE report according to the schedule in ยง 141.600(c).

(1) Your IDSE report must include all TTHM and HAA5 analytical results from subpart L compliance monitoring and all system specific study monitoring conducted during the period of the system specific study presented in a tabular or spreadsheet format acceptable to the State. If changed from your system specific study plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, your IDSE report must also include a schematic of your distribution system, the population served, and system type (subpart H or ground water).

(2) If you used the modeling provision under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you must include final information for the elements described in paragraph (a)(2)(ii) of this section, and a 24-hour time series graph of residence time for each subpart V compliance monitoring location selected.

(3) You must recommend and justify subpart V compliance monitoring locations and timing based on the protocol in ยง 141.605.

(4) Your IDSE report must include an explanation of any deviations from your approved system specific study plan.

(5) Your IDSE report must include the basis (analytical and modeling results) and justification you used to select the recommended subpart V monitoring locations.

(6) You may submit your IDSE report in lieu of your system specific study plan on the schedule identified in ยง 141.600(c) for submission of the system specific study plan if you believe that you have the necessary information by the time that the system specific study plan is due. If you elect this approach, your IDSE report must also include all information required under paragraph (a) of this section.

(7) You must retain a complete copy of your IDSE report submitted under this section for 10 years after the date that you submitted your IDSE report. If the State modifies the subpart V monitoring requirements that you recommended in your IDSE report or if the State approves alternative monitoring locations, you must keep a copy of the State's notification on file for 10 years after the date of the State's notification. You must make the IDSE report and any State notification available for review by the State or the public.
