
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### ยง 141.602 System specific studies.
####### Minimum requirements.

(i)(A) The model must simulate 24 hour variation in demand and show a consistently repeating 24 hour pattern of residence time.

(B) The model must represent the criteria listed in paragraphs (a)(2)(i)(B)(1) through (9) of this section.

(1) 75% of pipe volume;

(2) 50% of pipe length;

(3) All pressure zones;

(4) All 12-inch diameter and larger pipes;

(5) All 8-inch and larger pipes that connect pressure zones, influence zones from different sources, storage facilities, major demand areas, pumps, and control valves, or are known or expected to be significant conveyors of water;

(6) All 6-inch and larger pipes that connect remote areas of a distribution system to the main portion of the system;

(7) All storage facilities with standard operations represented in the model; and

(8) All active pump stations with controls represented in the model; and

(9) All active control valves.

(C) The model must be calibrated, or have calibration plans, for the current configuration of the distribution system during the period of high TTHM formation potential. All storage facilities must be evaluated as part of the calibration process. All required calibration must be completed no later than 12 months after plan submission.
