
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### ยง 141.602 System specific studies.
####### i.e.

(B) A description of all calibration activities undertaken, and if calibration is complete, a graph of predicted tank levels versus measured tank levels for the storage facility with the highest residence time in each pressure zone, and a time series graph of the residence time at the longest residence time storage facility in the distribution system showing the predictions for the entire simulation period (, from time zero until the time it takes to for the model to reach a consistently repeating pattern of residence time).

(C) Model output showing preliminary 24 hour average residence time predictions throughout the distribution system.

(D) Timing and number of samples representative of the distribution system planned for at least one monitoring period of TTHM and HAA5 dual sample monitoring at a number of locations no less than would be required for the system under standard monitoring in ยง 141.601 during the historical month of high TTHM. These samples must be taken at locations other than existing subpart L compliance monitoring locations.

(E) Description of how all requirements will be completed no later than 12 months after you submit your system specific study plan.

(F) Schematic of your distribution system (including distribution system entry points and their sources, and storage facilities), with notes indicating the locations and dates of all completed system specific study monitoring (if calibration is complete) and all subpart L compliance monitoring.

(G) Population served and system type (subpart H or ground water).

(H) You must retain a complete copy of your system specific study plan submitted under this paragraph (a)(2), including any State modification of your system specific study plan, for as long as you are required to retain your IDSE report under paragraph (b)(7) of this section.

(iii) If you submit a model that does not fully meet the requirements under paragraph (a)(2) of this section, you must correct the deficiencies and respond to State inquiries concerning the model. If you fail to correct deficiencies or respond to inquiries to the State's satisfaction, you must conduct standard monitoring under ยง 141.601.
