
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### ยง 141.602 System specific studies.
####### Reporting monitoring results.

(ii)You must report the information in this paragraph (a)(1)(ii).

(A) You must report previously collected monitoring results and certify that the reported monitoring results include all compliance and non-compliance results generated during the time period beginning with the first reported result and ending with the most recent subpart L results.

(B) You must certify that the samples were representative of the entire distribution system and that treatment, and distribution system have not changed significantly since the samples were collected.

(C) Your study monitoring plan must include a schematic of your distribution system (including distribution system entry points and their sources, and storage facilities), with notes indicating the locations and dates of all completed or planned system specific study monitoring.

(D) Your system specific study plan must specify the population served and system type (subpart H or ground water).

(E) You must retain a complete copy of your system specific study plan submitted under this paragraph (a)(1), including any State modification of your system specific study plan, for as long as you are required to retain your IDSE report under paragraph (b)(5) of this section.

(F) If you submit previously collected data that fully meet the number of samples required under paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this section and the State rejects some of the data, you must either conduct additional monitoring to replace rejected data on a schedule the State approves or conduct standard monitoring under ยง 141.601.
