
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### ยง 141.601 Standard monitoring.
####### IDSE report.

(c)Your IDSE report must include the elements required in paragraphs (c)(1) through (c)(4) of this section. You must submit your IDSE report to the State according to the schedule in ยง 141.600(c).

(1) Your IDSE report must include all TTHM and HAA5 analytical results from subpart L compliance monitoring and all standard monitoring conducted during the period of the IDSE as individual analytical results and LRAAs presented in a tabular or spreadsheet format acceptable to the State. If changed from your standard monitoring plan submitted under paragraph (a) of this section, your report must also include a schematic of your distribution system, the population served, and system type (subpart H or ground water).

(2) Your IDSE report must include an explanation of any deviations from your approved standard monitoring plan.

(3) You must recommend and justify subpart V compliance monitoring locations and timing based on the protocol in ยง 141.605.

(4) You must retain a complete copy of your IDSE report submitted under this section for 10 years after the date that you submitted your report. If the State modifies the subpart V monitoring requirements that you recommended in your IDSE report or if the State approves alternative monitoring locations, you must keep a copy of the State's notification on file for 10 years after the date of the State's notification. You must make the IDSE report and any State notification available for review by the State or the public.
