
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.620 General requirements.
####### Schedule.

(c)You must comply with the requirements in this subpart on the schedule in the following table based on your system type.

(6) Your monitoring frequency is specified in § 141.621(a)(2).

(i) If you are required to conduct quarterly monitoring, you must begin monitoring in the first full calendar quarter that includes the compliance date in the table in this paragraph (c).

(ii) If you are required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must begin monitoring in the calendar month recommended in the IDSE report prepared under § 141.601 or § 141.602 or the calendar month identified in the subpart V monitoring plan developed under § 141.622 no later than 12 months after the compliance date in this table.

(7) If you are required to conduct quarterly monitoring, you must make compliance calculations at the end of the fourth calendar quarter that follows the compliance date and at the end of each subsequent quarter (or earlier if the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four quarters of data would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent quarters). If you are required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must make compliance calculations beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date.

(8) For the purpose of the schedule in this paragraph (c), the State may determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain consecutive systems based on factors such as receiving water from a wholesale system only on an emergency basis or receiving only a small percentage and small volume of water from a wholesale system. The State may also determine that the combined distribution system does not include certain wholesale systems based on factors such as delivering water to a consecutive system only on an emergency basis or delivering only a small percentage and small volume of water to a consecutive system.
