
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart U - Initial Distribution System Evaluations
###### § 141.603 40/30 certification.
####### 40/30 certification.

(b)(1) You must certify to your State that every individual compliance sample taken under subpart L of this part during the periods specified in paragraph (a) of this section were &#x2264;0.040 mg/L for TTHM and &#x2264;0.030 mg/L for HAA5, and that you have not had any TTHM or HAA5 monitoring violations during the period specified in paragraph (a) of this section.

(2) The State may require you to submit compliance monitoring results, distribution system schematics, and/or recommended subpart V compliance monitoring locations in addition to your certification. If you fail to submit the requested information, the State may require standard monitoring under § 141.601 or a system specific study under § 141.602.

(3) The State may still require standard monitoring under § 141.601 or a system specific study under § 141.602 even if you meet the criteria in paragraph (a) of this section.

(4) You must retain a complete copy of your certification submitted under this section for 10 years after the date that you submitted your certification. You must make the certification, all data upon which the certification is based, and any State notification available for review by the State or the public.
