
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.623 Reduced monitoring.

(a) You may reduce monitoring to the level specified in the table in this paragraph (a) any time the LRAA is &#x2264;0.040 mg/L for TTHM and &#x2264;0.030 mg/L for HAA5 at all monitoring locations. You may only use data collected under the provisions of this subpart or subpart L of this part to qualify for reduced monitoring. In addition, the source water annual average TOC level, before any treatment, must be &#x2264;4.0 mg/L at each treatment plant treating surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, based on monitoring conducted under either § 141.132(b)(1)(iii) or § 141.132(d).

(b) You may remain on reduced monitoring as long as the TTHM LRAA &#x2264;0.040 mg/L and the HAA5 LRAA &#x2264;0.030 mg/L at each monitoring location (for systems with quarterly reduced monitoring) or each TTHM sample &#x2264;0.060 mg/L and each HAA5 sample &#x2264;0.045 mg/L (for systems with annual or less frequent monitoring). In addition, the source water annual average TOC level, before any treatment, must be &#x2264;4.0 mg/L at each treatment plant treating surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, based on monitoring conducted under either § 141.132(b)(1)(iii) or § 141.132(d).

(c) If the LRAA based on quarterly monitoring at any monitoring location exceeds either 0.040 mg/L for TTHM or 0.030 mg/L for HAA5 or if the annual (or less frequent) sample at any location exceeds either 0.060 mg/L for TTHM or 0.045 mg/L for HAA5, or if the source water annual average TOC level, before any treatment, >4.0 mg/L at any treatment plant treating surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water, you must resume routine monitoring under § 141.621 or begin increased monitoring if § 141.625 applies.

(d) The State may return your system to routine monitoring at the State's discretion.
