
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.622 Subpart V monitoring plan.

(a)(1) You must develop and implement a monitoring plan to be kept on file for State and public review. The monitoring plan must contain the elements in paragraphs (a)(1)(i) through (a)(1)(iv) of this section and be complete no later than the date you conduct your initial monitoring under this subpart.

(i) Monitoring locations;

(ii) Monitoring dates;

(iii) Compliance calculation procedures; and

(iv) Monitoring plans for any other systems in the combined distribution system if the State has reduced monitoring requirements under the State authority in § 142.16(m).

(2) If you were not required to submit an IDSE report under either § 141.601 or § 141.602, and you do not have sufficient subpart L monitoring locations to identify the required number of subpart V compliance monitoring locations indicated in § 141.605(b), you must identify additional locations by alternating selection of locations representing high TTHM levels and high HAA5 levels until the required number of compliance monitoring locations have been identified. You must also provide the rationale for identifying the locations as having high levels of TTHM or HAA5. If you have more subpart L monitoring locations than required for subpart V compliance monitoring in § 141.605(b), you must identify which locations you will use for subpart V compliance monitoring by alternating selection of locations representing high TTHM levels and high HAA5 levels until the required number of subpart V compliance monitoring locations have been identified.

(b) If you are a subpart H system serving >3,300 people, you must submit a copy of your monitoring plan to the State prior to the date you conduct your initial monitoring under this subpart, unless your IDSE report submitted under subpart U of this part contains all the information required by this section.

(c) You may revise your monitoring plan to reflect changes in treatment, distribution system operations and layout (including new service areas), or other factors that may affect TTHM or HAA5 formation, or for State-approved reasons, after consultation with the State regarding the need for changes and the appropriateness of changes. If you change monitoring locations, you must replace existing compliance monitoring locations with the lowest LRAA with new locations that reflect the current distribution system locations with expected high TTHM or HAA5 levels. The State may also require modifications in your monitoring plan. If you are a subpart H system serving >3,300 people, you must submit a copy of your modified monitoring plan to the State prior to the date you are required to comply with the revised monitoring plan.
