
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### ยง 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Reporting.

(a)(1) You must report the following information for each monitoring location to the State within 10 days of the end of any quarter in which monitoring is required:

(i) Number of samples taken during the last quarter.

(ii) Date and results of each sample taken during the last quarter.

(iii) Arithmetic average of quarterly results for the last four quarters for each monitoring location (LRAA), beginning at the end of the fourth calendar quarter that follows the compliance date and at the end of each subsequent quarter. If the LRAA calculated based on fewer than four quarters of data would cause the MCL to be exceeded regardless of the monitoring results of subsequent quarters, you must report this information to the State as part of the first report due following the compliance date or anytime thereafter that this determination is made. If you are required to conduct monitoring at a frequency that is less than quarterly, you must make compliance calculations beginning with the first compliance sample taken after the compliance date, unless you are required to conduct increased monitoring under ยง 141.625.

(iv) Whether, based on ยง 141.64(b)(2) and this subpart, the MCL was violated at any monitoring location.

(v) Any operational evaluation levels that were exceeded during the quarter and, if so, the location and date, and the calculated TTHM and HAA5 levels.

(2) If you are a subpart H system seeking to qualify for or remain on reduced TTHM/HAA5 monitoring, you must report the following source water TOC information for each treatment plant that treats surface water or ground water under the direct influence of surface water to the State within 10 days of the end of any quarter in which monitoring is required:

(i) The number of source water TOC samples taken each month during last quarter.

(ii) The date and result of each sample taken during last quarter.

(iii) The quarterly average of monthly samples taken during last quarter or the result of the quarterly sample.

(iv) The running annual average (RAA) of quarterly averages from the past four quarters.

(v) Whether the RAA exceeded 4.0 mg/L.

(3) The State may choose to perform calculations and determine whether the MCL was exceeded or the system is eligible for reduced monitoring in lieu of having the system report that information
