
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### ยง 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Source Water Monitoring Requirements
######## ยง 141.702 Sampling schedules.
######### i.e.

(b) Systems must collect samples within two days before or two days after the dates indicated in their sampling schedule (, within a five-day period around the schedule date) unless one of the conditions of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section applies.

(1) If an extreme condition or situation exists that may pose danger to the sample collector, or that cannot be avoided and causes the system to be unable to sample in the scheduled five-day period, the system must sample as close to the scheduled date as is feasible unless the State approves an alternative sampling date. The system must submit an explanation for the delayed sampling date to the State concurrent with the shipment of the sample to the laboratory.

(2)(i) If a system is unable to report a valid analytical result for a scheduled sampling date due to equipment failure, loss of or damage to the sample, failure to comply with the analytical method requirements, including the quality control requirements in ยง 141.704, or the failure of an approved laboratory to analyze the sample, then the system must collect a replacement sample.

(ii) The system must collect the replacement sample not later than 21 days after receiving information that an analytical result cannot be reported for the scheduled date unless the system demonstrates that collecting a replacement sample within this time frame is not feasible or the State approves an alternative resampling date. The system must submit an explanation for the delayed sampling date to the State concurrent with the shipment of the sample to the laboratory.

(c) Systems that fail to meet the criteria of paragraph (b) of this section for any source water sample required under ยง 141.701 must revise their sampling schedules to add dates for collecting all missed samples. Systems must submit the revised schedule to the State for approval prior to when the system begins collecting the missed samples.
