
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### ยง 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Source Water Monitoring Requirements
######## ยง 141.704 Analytical methods.
######### Cryptosporidium.,Cryptosporidium,Method 1623: Cryptosporidium and Giardia in Water by Filtration/IMS/FA,,Method 1622: Cryptosporidium in Water by Filtration/IMS/FA,,http://www.epa.gov/safewater/disinfection/lt2,Telephone:,Telephone:,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(a)Systems must analyze forusing2005, United States Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-815-R-05-002 or2005, United States Environmental Protection Agency, EPA-815-R-05-001, which are incorporated by reference, or alternative methods listed in appendix A to subpart C of this part. The Director of the Federal Register approves this incorporation by reference in accordance with 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. You may obtain a copy of these methods online fromor from the United States Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water, 1201 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC 20460 (800-426-4791). You may inspect a copy at the Water Docket in the EPA Docket Center, 1301 Constitution Ave., NW., Washington, DC (202-566-2426) or at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 202-741-6030, or go to:

(1) Systems must analyze at least a 10 L sample or a packed pellet volume of at least 2 mL as generated by the methods listed in paragraph (a) of this section. Systems unable to process a 10 L sample must analyze as much sample volume as can be filtered by two filters approved by EPA for the methods listed in paragraph (a) of this section, up to a packed pellet volume of at least 2 mL.
