
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Disinfection Profiling and Benchmarking Requirements
######## § 141.709 Developing the disinfection profile and benchmark.
######### Giardia lamblia

(d) Systems must calculate the total inactivation ratio foras specified in paragraphs (d)(1) through (3) of this section.

(1) Systems using only one point of disinfectant application may determine the total inactivation ratio for the disinfection segment based on either of the methods in paragraph (d)(1)(i) or (ii) of this section.

(i) Determine one inactivation ratio (CTcalc/CT) before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow.

(ii) Determine successive CTcalc/CTvalues, representing sequential inactivation ratios, between the point of disinfectant application and a point before or at the first customer during peak hourly flow. The system must calculate the total inactivation ratio by determining (CTcalc/CT) for each sequence and then adding the (CTcalc/CT) values together to determine (Σ (CTcalc/CT)).

(2) Systems using more than one point of disinfectant application before the first customer must determine the CT value of each disinfection segment immediately prior to the next point of disinfectant application, or for the final segment, before or at the first customer, during peak hourly flow. The (CTcalc/CT) value of each segment and (Σ (CTcalc/CT)) must be calculated using the method in paragraph (d)(1)(ii) of this section.

(3) The system must determine the total logs of inactivation by multiplying the value calculated in paragraph (d)(1) or (d)(2) of this section by 3.0.

(4) Systems must calculate the log of inactivation for viruses using a protocol approved by the State.

(e) Systems must use the procedures specified in paragraphs (e)(1) and (2) of this section to calculate a disinfection benchmark.
