
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Treatment Technique Requirements
######## § 141.710 Bin classification for filtered systems.
######### Cryptosporidium,Cryptosporidium

(d) Following completion of the second round of source water monitoring required under § 141.701(b), filtered systems must recalculate theirbin concentration using theresults reported under § 141.701(b) and following the procedures in paragraphs (b)(1) through (4) of this section. Systems must then redetermine their bin classification using this bin concentration and the table in paragraph (c) of this section.

(e)(1) Filtered systems must report their initial bin classification under paragraph (c) of this section to the State for approval no later than 6 months after the system is required to complete initial source water monitoring based on the schedule in § 141.701(c).

(2) Systems must report their bin classification under paragraph (d) of this section to the State for approval no later than 6 months after the system is required to complete the second round of source water monitoring based on the schedule in § 141.701(c).

(3) The bin classification report to the State must include a summary of source water monitoring data and the calculation procedure used to determine bin classification.

(f) Failure to comply with the conditions of paragraph (e) of this section is a violation of the treatment technique requirement.
