
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### ยง 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Requirements for Microbial Toolbox Components
######## ยง 141.716 Source toolbox components.
######### Cryptosporidium,Cryptosporidium.

(A) The watershed sanitary survey must meet the following criteria: encompass the region identified in the State-approved watershed control plan as the area of influence; assess the implementation of actions to reduce source waterlevels; and identify any significant new sources of

(B) If the State determines that significant changes may have occurred in the watershed since the previous watershed sanitary survey, systems must undergo another watershed sanitary survey by a date the State requires, which may be earlier than the regular date in paragraph (a)(5)(ii) of this section.

(iii) The system must make the watershed control plan, annual status reports, and watershed sanitary survey reports available to the public upon request. These documents must be in a plain language style and include criteria by which to evaluate the success of the program in achieving plan goals. The State may approve systems to withhold from the public portions of the annual status report, watershed control plan, and watershed sanitary survey based on water supply security considerations.

(6) If the State determines that a system is not carrying out the approved watershed control plan, the State may withdraw the watershed control program treatment credit.
