
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Requirements for Microbial Toolbox Components
######## § 141.718 Treatment performance toolbox components.
######### Individual filter performance.,Cryptosporidium

(b)Systems using conventional filtration treatment or direct filtration treatment receive 0.5-logtreatment credit, which can be in addition to the 0.5-log credit under paragraph (a) of this section, during any month the system meets the criteria in this paragraph. Compliance with these criteria must be based on individual filter turbidity monitoring as described in § 141.174 or § 141.560, as applicable.

(1) The filtered water turbidity for each individual filter must be less than or equal to 0.15 NTU in at least 95 percent of the measurements recorded each month.

(2) No individual filter may have a measured turbidity greater than 0.3 NTU in two consecutive measurements taken 15 minutes apart.

(3) Any system that has received treatment credit for individual filter performance and fails to meet the requirements of paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section during any month does not receive a treatment technique violation under § 141.711(c) if the State determines the following:

(i) The failure was due to unusual and short-term circumstances that could not reasonably be prevented through optimizing treatment plant design, operation, and maintenance.

(ii) The system has experienced no more than two such failures in any calendar year.
