
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### § 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Requirements for Microbial Toolbox Components
######## § 141.716 Source toolbox components.
######### Alternative source.

(b)(1) A system may conduct source water monitoring that reflects a different intake location (either in the same source or for an alternate source) or a different procedure for the timing or level of withdrawal from the source (alternative source monitoring). If the State approves, a system may determine its bin classification under § 141.710 based on the alternative source monitoring results.

(2) If systems conduct alternative source monitoring under paragraph (b)(1) of this section, systems must also monitor their current plant intake concurrently as described in § 141.701.

(3) Alternative source monitoring under paragraph (b)(1) of this section must meet the requirements for source monitoring to determine bin classification, as described in §§ 141.701 through 141.706. Systems must report the alternative source monitoring results to the State, along with supporting information documenting the operating conditions under which the samples were collected.

(4) If a system determines its bin classification under § 141.710 using alternative source monitoring results that reflect a different intake location or a different procedure for managing the timing or level of withdrawal from the source, the system must relocate the intake or permanently adopt the withdrawal procedure, as applicable, no later than the applicable treatment compliance date in § 141.713.
