
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart V - Stage 2 Disinfection Byproducts Requirements
###### ยง 141.629 Reporting and recordkeeping requirements.
####### Requirements for Microbial Toolbox Components
######## ยง 141.719 Additional filtration toolbox components.
######### i.e.

(iv) Challenge testing must be conducted under representative hydraulic conditions at the maximum design flux and maximum design process recovery specified by the manufacturer for the membrane module. Flux is defined as the throughput of a pressure driven membrane process expressed as flow per unit of membrane area. Recovery is defined as the volumetric percent of feed water that is converted to filtrate over the course of an operating cycle uninterrupted by events such as chemical cleaning or a solids removal process (, backwashing).

(v) Removal efficiency of a membrane module must be calculated from the challenge test results and expressed as a log removal value according to the following equation:

(vi) The removal efficiency of a membrane filtration process demonstrated during challenge testing must be expressed as a log removal value (LRV). If fewer than 20 modules are tested, then LRVis equal to the lowest of the representative LRVs among the modules tested. If 20 or more modules are tested, then LRVis equal to the 10th percentile of the representative LRVs among the modules tested. The percentile is defined by (i/(n + 1)) where i is the rank of n individual data points ordered lowest to highest. If necessary, the 10th percentile may be calculated using linear interpolation.
