
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart X - Aircraft Drinking Water Rule
###### ยง 141.803 Coliform sampling.
####### Routine monitoring.

(b)For each aircraft water system, the sampling frequency must be determined by the disinfection and flushing frequency recommended by the aircraft water system manufacturer, when available, and as identified in the operations and maintenance plan in ยง 141.804.

(1) Except as provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, the air carrier must collect two 100 mL total coliform routine samples at the frequency specified in the sampling plan in ยง 141.802 and in accordance with paragraph (b)(3) of this section;

(2) The air carrier may collect one 100 mL total coliform routine sample at the frequency specified in the sampling plan in ยง 141.802 for aircraft with a removable or portable tank that is drained every day of passenger service, and the aircraft has only one tap. Aircraft meeting the requirements of this paragraph do not have to comply with paragraph (b)(4) of this section.

(3) Air carriers must perform routine monitoring for total coliform at a frequency corresponding to the frequency of routine disinfection and flushing as specified in the Table b-1 (Routine Disinfection and Flushing and Routine Sample Frequencies). Air carriers must follow the disinfection and flushing frequency recommended by the aircraft water system manufacturer, when available. Where the aircraft water system manufacturer does not specify a recommended routine disinfection and flushing frequency, the air carrier must choose a frequency from Table b-1 (Routine Disinfection and Flushing and Routine Sample Frequencies):

(4) One sample must be taken from a lavatory and one from a galley; each sample must be analyzed for total coliform. If only one water tap is located in the aircraft water system due to aircraft model type and construction, then a single tap may be used to collect two separate 100 mL samples.
