
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart X - Aircraft Drinking Water Rule
###### § 141.802 Coliform sampling plan.

(a) Each air carrier under this subpart must develop a coliform sampling plan covering each aircraft water system owned or operated by the air carrier that identifies the following:

(1) Coliform sample collection procedures that are consistent with the requirements of § 141.803(a) and (b).

(2) Sample tap location(s) representative of the aircraft water system as specified in § 141.803(b)(2) and (b)(4).

(3) Frequency and number of routine coliform samples to be collected as specified in § 141.803(b)(3).

(4) Frequency of routine disinfection and flushing as specified in the operations and maintenance plan under § 141.804.

(5) Procedures for communicating sample results promptly so that any required actions, including repeat and follow-up sampling, corrective action, and notification of passengers and crew, will be conducted in a timely manner.

(b) Each air carrier must develop a coliform sampling plan for each aircraft with a water system meeting the definition of a public water system by April 19, 2011.

(c) The coliform sampling plan must be included in the Aircraft Water System Operations and Maintenance Plan required in § 141.804. Any subsequent changes to the coliform sampling plan must also be included in the Aircraft Water System Operations and Maintenance Plan required in § 141.804.
