
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart X - Aircraft Drinking Water Rule
###### § 141.806 Reporting requirements.

(a) The air carrier must comply with the following requirements regarding reporting of the development of the coliform sampling plan, the operations and maintenance plan, and the disinfection and flushing and coliform sampling frequencies.

(1) The air carrier must report to the Administrator that it has developed the coliform sampling plan required by § 141.802, which covers each existing aircraft water system, as well as report the frequency for routine coliform sampling identified in the coliform sampling plan by April 19, 2011. The air carrier must report to the Administrator that it has developed its operations and maintenance plan required by § 141.804 and report the frequency for routine disinfection and flushing by April 19, 2011;

(2) For each new aircraft meeting the definition of an aircraft water system, which becomes operational after publication of this subpart, the air carrier must report to the Administrator that it has developed the coliform sampling plan required by § 141.802, as well as report the frequency for routine coliform sampling identified in the coliform sampling plan, within the first calendar quarter of initial operation of the aircraft. The air carrier must report to the Administrator that it has developed the aircraft water system operations and maintenance plan required by § 141.804, and report the frequency for routine disinfection and flushing within the first calendar quarter of initial operation of the aircraft.

(b) The air carrier must report the following information to the Administrator:

(1) A complete inventory of aircraft that are public water systems by April 19, 2011. Inventory information includes, at a minimum, the following:

(i) The unique aircraft identifier number;

(ii) The status (active or inactive) of any aircraft as an aircraft water system as defined in § 141.801;

(iii) The type and location of any supplemental treatment equipment installed on the water system; and

(iv) Whether the aircraft water system can be physically disconnected or shut-off, or the flow of water prevented through the tap(s).

(2) Changes in aircraft inventory no later than 10 days following the calendar month in which the change occurred. Changes in inventory information include, at a minimum, the following:

(i) Change in the unique identifier number for any new aircraft, or any aircraft removed from the carrier's fleet;

(ii) Change in status (active or inactive) of any aircraft as an aircraft water system as defined in § 141.801; and

(iii) Change to the type and location of any supplemental treatment equipment added to or removed from the water system.

(iv) Change to whether the aircraft water system can be physically disconnected or shut-off, or the flow of water prevented through the tap(s).

(3) All sampling results no later than 10 calendar days following the monitoring period in which the sampling occurred. The monitoring period is based on the monitoring frequency identified in the coliform sampling plan required under § 141.802. Routine disinfection and flushing events must be reported no later than 10 calendar days following the disinfection and flushing period in which the disinfection and flushing occurred. The disinfection and flushing period is based on the frequency identified in the operations and maintenance plan required under § 141.804.

(4) All events requiring notification to passengers or crew, or non-routine disinfection and flushing, or non-routine sampling, within 10 days of the event (e.g., notification of positive sample result by laboratory), including information on whether required notification was provided to passengers or crew or both.

(5) Failure to comply with the monitoring or disinfection and flushing requirements of this subpart within 10 calendar days of discovery of the failure.

(6) Changes in disinfection and flushing and coliform sampling frequencies no later than 10 days following the calendar month in which the change occurred. Changes to an aircraft's routine coliform sampling frequency and routine disinfection and flushing frequency must be included in the aircraft water system operation and maintenance plan that is included in the air carrier operations and maintenance program accepted by FAA in accordance with § 141.804.

(c) The air carrier must provide evidence of a self-inspection to the Administrator within 90 days of completion of the self-inspection required under § 141.808(b), including reporting whether all deficiencies were addressed in accordance with § 141.808(c). The air carrier must also report to the Administrator within 90 days that any deficiency identified during a compliance audit conducted in accordance with § 141.808(a) has been addressed. If any deficiency has not been addressed within 90 days of identification of the deficiency, the report must also include a description of the deficiency, an explanation as to why it has not yet been addressed, and a schedule for addressing it as expeditiously as possible.

(d) All information required to be reported to the Administrator under this subpart must be in an electronic format established or approved by the Administrator. If an air carrier is unable to report electronically, the air carrier may use an alternative approach that the Administrator approves.
