
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 141 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS
##### Subpart Y - Revised Total Coliform Rule
###### ยง 141.852 Analytical methods and laboratory certification.
####### Incorporation by reference.,www.regulations.gov,,http://www.archives.gov/federal_register/code_of_federal_regulations/ibr_locations.html.

(c)The standards required in this section are incorporated by reference into this section with the approval of the Director of the Federal Register under 5 U.S.C. 552(a) and 1 CFR part 51. To enforce any edition other than that specified in this section, EPA must publish notice of change in theand the material must be available to the public. All approved material is available for inspection either electronically atin hard copy at the Water Docket, or from the sources indicated below. The Docket ID is EPA-HQ-OW-2008-0878. Hard copies of these documents may be viewed at the Water Docket in the EPA Docket Center, (EPA/DC) EPA West, Room 3334, 1301 Constitution Ave. NW., Washington, DC. The EPA Docket Center Public Reading Room is open from 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday, excluding legal holidays. The telephone number for the Public Reading Room is 1-202-566-1744, and the telephone number for the Water Docket is 1-202-566-2426. Copyrighted materials are only available for viewing in hard copy. These documents are also available for inspection at the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA). For information on the availability of this material at NARA, call 1-202-741-6030 or go to:

(1) American Public Health Association, 800 I Street, NW., Washington, DC 20001.

(i) "Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater," 20th edition (1998):

(A) Standard Methods 9221, "Multiple-Tube Fermentation Technique for Members of the Coliform Group," B.1, B.2, "Standard Total Coliform Fermentation Technique."

(B) Standard Methods 9221, "Multiple-Tube Fermentation Technique for Members of the Coliform Group," D.1, D.2, "Presence-Absence (P-A) Coliform Test."

(C) Standard Methods 9222, "Membrane Filter Technique for Members of the Coliform Group," B, "Standard Total Coliform Membrane Filter Procedure."

(D) Standard Methods 9222, "Membrane Filter Technique for Members of the Coliform Group," C, "Delayed-Incubation Total Coliform Procedure."

(E) Standard Methods 9223, "Enzyme Substrate Coliform Test," B, "Enzyme Substrate Test," Colilert&#xAE; and Colisure&#xAE;.
