
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### ยง 142.10 Requirements for a determination of primary enforcement responsibility.
####### Variances and exemptions.

(d)(1) If it permits small system variances pursuant to Section 1415(e) of the Act, it must provide procedures no less stringent than the Act and Subpart K of this part.

(2) If it permits variances (other than small system variances) or exemptions, or both, from the requirements of the State primary drinking water regulations, it shall do so under conditions and in a manner no less stringent than the requirements of Sections 1415 and 1416 of the Act. In granting these variances, the State must adopt the Administrator's findings of best available technology, treatment techniques, or other means available as specified in Subpart G of this part. (States with primary enforcement responsibility may adopt procedures different from those set forth in Subparts E and F of this part, which apply to the issuance of variances (other than small system variances) and exemptions by the Administrator in States that do not have primary enforcement responsibility, provided that the State procedures meet the requirements of this paragraph); and

(e) Has adopted and can implement an adequate plan for the provision of safe drinking water under emergency circumstances including, but not limited to, earthquakes, floods, hurricanes, and other natural disasters.

(f)(1) Has adopted authority for assessing administrative penalties unless the constitution of the State prohibits the adoption of such authority. For public water systems serving a population of more than 10,000 individuals, States must have the authority to impose a penalty of at least $1,000 per day per violation. For public water systems serving a population of 10,000 or fewer individuals, States must have penalties that are adequate to ensure compliance with the State regulations as determined by the State.

(2) As long as criteria in paragraph (f)(1) of this section are met, States may establish a maximum administrative penalty per violation that may be assessed on a public water system.

(g) Has adopted regulations consistent with 40 CFR part 3-(Electronic reporting) if the state receives electronic documents.

(h) An Indian Tribe shall not be required to exercise criminal enforcement jurisdiction to meet the requirements for primary enforcement responsibility.
