
# Title 40 - Protection of Environment
## Chapter I - Environmental Protection Agency
### Subchapter D - Water Programs
#### PART 142 - NATIONAL PRIMARY DRINKING WATER REGULATIONS IMPLEMENTATION
##### Subpart B - Primary Enforcement Responsibility
###### § 142.13 Public hearing.

(a) The Administrator shall provide an opportunity for a public hearing before a final determination pursuant to § 142.11 that the State meets or does not meet the requirements for obtaining primary enforcement responsibility, or a final determination pursuant to § 142.12(d)(3) to approve or disapprove a State request for approval of a program revision, or a final determination pursuant to § 142.17 that a State no longer meets the requirements for primary enforcement responsibility.

(b) The Administrator shall publish notice of any determination specified in paragraph (a) of this section in theand in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the State involved within 15 days after making such determination, with a statement of his reasons for the determination. Such notice shall inform interested persons that they may request a public hearing on the Administrator's determination. Such notice shall also indicate one or more locations in the State where information submitted by the State pursuant to § 142.11 is available for inspection by the general public. A public hearing may be requested by any interested person other than a Federal agency. Frivolous or insubstantial requests for hearing may be denied by the Administrator.

(c) Requests for hearing submitted pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section shall be submitted to the Administrator within 30 days after publication of notice of opportunity for hearing in theSuch requests shall include the following information:

(1) The name, address and telephone number of the individual, organization or other entity requesting a hearing.

(2) A brief statement of the requesting person's interest in the Administrator's determination and of information that the requesting person intends to submit at such hearing.

(3) The signature of the individual making the request; or, if the request is made on behalf of an organization or other entity, the signature of a responsible official of the organization or other entity.

(d) The Administrator shall give notice in theand in a newspaper or newspapers of general circulation in the State involved of any hearing to be held pursuant to a request submitted by an interested person or on his own motion. Notice of the hearing shall also be sent to the person requesting a hearing, if any, and to the State involved. Notice of the hearing shall include a statement of the purpose of the hearing, information regarding the time and location or locations for the hearing and the address and telephone number of an office at which interested persons may obtain further information concerning the hearing. At least one hearing location specified in the public notice shall be within the involved State. Notice of hearing shall be given not less than 15 days prior to the time scheduled for the hearing.

(e) Hearings convened pursuant to paragraph (d) of this section shall be conducted before a hearing officer to be designated by the Administrator. The hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer in an informal, orderly and expeditious manner. The hearing officer shall have authority to call witnesses, receive oral and written testimony and take such other action as may be necessary to assure the fair and efficient conduct of the hearing. Following the conclusion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall forward the record of the hearing to the Administrator.

(f) After reviewing the record of the hearing, the Administrator shall issue an order affirming the determination referred to in paragraph (a) of this section or rescinding such determination. If the determination is affirmed, it shall become effective as of the date of the Administrator's order.

(g) If no timely request for hearing is received and the Administrator does not determine to hold a hearing on his own motion, the Administrator's determination shall become effective 30 days after notice is issued pursuant to paragraph (b) of this section.

(h) If a determination of the Administrator that a State no longer meets the requirements for primary enforcement responsibility becomes effective, the State may subsequently apply for a determination that it meets such requirements by submitting to the Administrator information demonstrating that it has remedied the deficiencies found by the Administrator without adversely sacrificing other aspects of its program required for primary enforcement responsibility.
